ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57693	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, especially I welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Vice-Presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing anthem of Beauty our homeland. - It's a performance of the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. For the 11th year in a row, September 22nd marks a national day against violence against women. Many associations and organisations in their own way mark that day by drawing attention to this burning problem of today's society and with the aim of raising awareness and informing citizens about the expansion of violence. I appeal to distinguished MPs and MPs not only today but also in their daily political work to promote the idea of zero levels of tolerance of violence against women. You received a record of the 18th and 19th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the records? If not, I would like to confirm that we have adopted the minutes of the 18th 19th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs, we are moving on to determine the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. You are also given the final draft agenda at the session. I stress that the points we did not discuss at the 18th session of the Croatian Parliament are printed in thicker letters. In the final draft agenda, I included 9 new points under regular numbers from 11, 15, 20, 29, 35, and 36. That's one. The final draft law on the State Judicial Council, that's second reading, P.Z.E. No. 576. Second, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, also the second reading of P.Z.E. Number 577. 3. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 582. 4. Final proposal of the Executive Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 584. 5. Final draft law on public enforcement, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 581. Six. Proposal for a Constitutional Act for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 619. Seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 618. 8. Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2010. Nine. A report on the work of the State's Attorney's Offices in 2009. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In the final draft agenda under points 1, 3, 4, and between 8 and 10, 16 and 17, and between 19 and 34, the laws proposed to adopt an emergency procedure are set out. These are: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 596, point 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 598, point 3. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, national representatives and international staff, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. point 4. So these are all emergency procedures so I don't read any further. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. Number 599, point 8. Proposal for a Law on the termination of work of the Agency for the Promotion of Exports, Investments, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. Number 608, point 9. Proposal for a Act confirming a protocol amending and supplementing the IPR Agreement, (TRIPS Agreement), with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. Number 610, point 10. Proposal for a law supplementing the bankruptcy law, with final draft law, P.Z. Number 595, point 16. Proposal for a law on the process of confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal act and offence, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. Number 595, point 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z.E. Number 612, point 19. Proposal for a Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. Number 619, point 20. Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. No. 603, point 21. Proposal for a Law confirming contracts for guarantees from the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation and Infrastructure Project Luke Sibenik, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. Number 613, point 22. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for a Law, P.Z. Number 610, point 23. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Development, Employment Fund, with the Final Proposal for a Law, P.Z. Number 601, point 24. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. number 602, point 25. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. Number 604, point 26. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 606, point 27. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. Number 609, point 28. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. Number 618, point 29. Proposal for a law supplementing the Protection and Rescue Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. Number 607, point 30. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Malta on the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, organised crime and international terrorism, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. Number 611, point 31. Proposal for a Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. the number 615, point 32. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. Number 616, point 33. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Sultan Oman on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. the number 617, point 34. I stress this all that these suggestions are laws under emergency procedure. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57694	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I suggest on behalf of the Government that we remove the emergency procedure from amending the Pension Insurance Act to go to regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57695	... It's not going to work. It's going to regular procedure. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] All right. Thank you. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? If he doesn't, yes. First Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57696	Mr President, on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, we oppose the urgent procedure in the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intervention Act, given that it is in a close relationship with this law proposed by the Prime Minister to go into regular procedure. That's how we discussed it on committees, and I think it would be appropriate for this law to go into regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57697	Madam Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57698	The government accepts the proposal of the representative of Hrelje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57699	So this one goes on a regular basis. Okay. Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57700	Well, first of all, Mr. President, I protest this behavior by the Croatian government. The Croatian government has driven the nation crazy by the proposal for an emergency pension insurance law. We drove 20, 30 thousand people... /The speaker off./... who would be burdened by the state budget, and this could have been done elegantly several months ago, rather than playing with fate... /The speaker turned off./... We also ask that an emergency procedure be lifted for item 23 and 24 are the laws on the termination of the Law on the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the termination of the Act on the Development and Employment Fund. I don't know if the state is now leaving politics and these little decentralisations, or the Development and Employment Fund, too much... It's surprising that kind of initiative because in the last year alone, we've lost 90,000 employees. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I agree that we have...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57701	It's not an explanation. It's just a suggestion not to go through an emergency procedure. Please stick to it. ... You have a proposal for point 24. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57702	That's right, I take it off and protest this practice.../The speaker off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57703	I stress that points 8, 17, 19 and 21 of the final draft agenda are aligned with the European Union rules and in accordance with Article 161. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of these laws. In order not to read them, that is point 8, point 17, point 19 and point 21. Please engage to check the quorum. 111, so we can approach the vote. This first point on pension insurance has been accepted to go to first reading. Second, also the objection of Mr. Hrelje, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Intervention, was also accepted to go to first reading. Thirdly, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty of National Representatives and International Staff? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion that this goes according to the urgent procedure of this point. If you agree, we can round these points by raising hands, it'll go a little faster. As regards the implementation of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law, the agenda points for the North Atlantic Treaty, etc. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that the proposal has been unanimously accepted. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on the termination of the work of the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments, paragraph 9? There isn't. Please, who's in favour of this emergency procedure proposal? Thank you. Against? Please count. Restraint? There isn't. This proposal was accepted by 99 votes for and 24 against, nothing abstentions. Any of the representatives and representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of the Protocol amending and supplementing the IPR Agreement (Trips Agreement), paragraph 10? Anyone have any objections? There isn't. Who's asking you to raise your hand to go into emergency procedures. Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal to confirm the protocol goes into emergency procedure unanimously with 124 votes. Any of the MPs and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the bankruptcy law, with the final proposal for a law, paragraph 16? There isn't. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This proposal was unanimously accepted by 123 votes. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the final proposal for a law, paragraph 20? There isn't. Who's to suggest that this law goes according to emergency procedures? Thank you. Against? Restraint? An accepted proposal unanimously with 124 votes. Do any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation of Sibenik Airport Infrastructure, paragraph 22? There isn't. Who's for emergency procedures please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal was adopted unanimously by 124 votes. Do any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Act on the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia, paragraph 23, except Mr Damir Cain? So we have an objection to go into the regular procedure of Mr. Damir Cain. Government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57704	Mr. President, the government doesn't accept Agent Cain's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57705	So we have a proposal from Mr. Agent Cain to go to regular procedure. The government disagrees. Please, who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Please, who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This law goes according to an emergency procedure based on most votes, 71 votes for, 53 against, nothing abstentions. Any of the representatives and advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Development and Employment Fund. Point 24. Mr Damir Cain made this observation. Can I help you, Mr. Hrell?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57706	Mr. President, I have no intention of affecting the government's intentions at all. I just want to say, for the sake of precautionary measures, that this is a unique case of joining a financial institution to the administrative institution and that there should be a higher level of trustee, a higher level of possible representation to be approached very carefully. Therefore, for this reason alone, I propose a regular procedure. I don't have any other motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57707	Thank you very much. We have a statement from Mr. Damir Cain and Mr. Silvan Hrelje not to go into this motion for an emergency procedure. Please, Government. Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57708	The government doesn't accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57709	So the government doesn't agree but to go into emergency procedure. Please, who's in charge of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Against? Thank you. Restraint? The result? The proposal was accepted by the majority of votes, 71 votes to and 53 votes against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Forests, paragraph 25? There isn't. Who's to suggest that he go by emergency procedure please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The result? The emergency proposal was accepted, 107 votes for, 17 against, no abstentions. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster, paragraph 26. There isn't. Who's for emergency procedures please raise your hand? Against? Restraint? The emergency proposal was accepted unanimously by 124 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, paragraph 27? There isn't. Who's in favour of this motion to proceed with an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The emergency proposal was accepted unanimously by 124 votes. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, paragraph 28? If not, please, who's in favour of this urgent procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This proposal was adopted unanimously by 124 votes. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber with the Final Proposal for the Law. It's P.Z. No. 618 point 29.? There isn't. Who's for this proposal please raise your hand? Against? Restraint? The emergency proposal was accepted unanimously by 123 votes. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on the Completion of the Protection and Rescue Act, paragraph 30? There isn't. Who's for this emergency proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The emergency proposal was accepted unanimously by 122 votes. Any of the representatives and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Malta in the fight against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances of organised crime and international terrorism, paragraph 31? There isn't. Who's for this proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The emergency proposal was accepted unanimously by 122 votes. Do any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament, paragraph 32? There isn't. Who's up for this proposal? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? The motion on urgency to pass this law was accepted by most votes, 71 votes to 51 against. Do any of you have any MPs and agents... on the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Energy Act, paragraph 33? [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] There isn't. Who's in favor of a suggestion of urgency? I'm asking for this proposal. Thank you. Against? Restraint? The motion on the urgency of the procedure was accepted by the majority of votes, 116 votes in favour, and 8 against. Does any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Sultans... avoidance of double taxation and prevention of income tax avoidance, point 34? [[You don't understand.]] There isn't. Who's for an emergency procedure, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This emergency proposal was accepted unanimously by 123 votes. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed for the sitting, and that agenda in accordance with Article 203, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure can now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda sent in the call for a session, on points 20, 29. Do any of the representatives have objections to points 11 to 15 and 35 of the final draft agenda, which did not contain the draft agenda, which you received with the invitation to this session? These are the Final Proposals of the Judgment Council Act, P.Z. No 576, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, P.Z.E. Number 577, and this first one is E. That's right. Third Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorney's Office, second reading, P.Z.E. No 582, Final proposal of the Executive Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No 584, Final Proposal for the Law on Public Executive, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 581, Proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2010, Report on the work of the national lawyers in 2009, applicant of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. - I'm talking about complaints. Any objections to these agenda points? There isn't. If no objection is made, the agenda shall be determined. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I suggest, if you agree, that I do not read it in full but allow me to announce that the agenda set out in the final draft agenda, with those changes on the urgency of the procedure that we voted on, or which the government accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose an addition to the agenda of the 20th session with seven new points. First, the proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Germany, amending the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation. That was in 2002, with the final bill, P.Z. Number 620. Secondly, the proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Open Universitys, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 621. Third, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Foundation of Croatia for Children, first reading, P.Z. Number 622. Fourth, a report on the business of companies of special state interest for 2009. Fifth, a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Civil Surveillance Council, a security-intelligence agency in the order of graduate lawyers, a proposal from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The sixth, report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2009, the proposal of the Council for Electronic Media. And seven, a proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television, the Proposer of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Your proposal for a supplement was delivered to the benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down before deciding on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. Please enable to check the quorum. We do. Okay. Any of the representatives have any objection to an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Union of the Republic of Germany. It's P.Z. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. If there isn't, then we'll go to the vote. Let us please engage and vote on the proposal that this law be followed by an urgent procedure. We can also vote manually. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. There was a unanimous acceptance of urgency with 112 votes. Let's move on. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Open Universitys, point 2, P.Z. 621? If he doesn't, I'd like to ask who this is to go through with an emergency procedure, to raise his hand. Thank you. Against? Mostly votes in, 111 against 1. Any of the representatives and representatives of the objection to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 20th session from points 3 to 7? If there is no such thing, then those points are accepted into the agenda, so I should read it now, you'll let me not read it. So all of these points that we're from points 3, 4, 5 and 6, 7 of the proposal to expand the agenda. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we have absorbed it and I announce that the extension will be 06.10. with the agenda of the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the final proposal of the law, it would be an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 619. So, on Wednesday 6th at 9.30 p.m., I want you all to have a pleasant time these days until the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57711	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a session. Before the start of the session, I give my word to the representative of the SDP Club Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and thank you for allowing me to present a very serious request before the Croatian Assembly before the beginning of today's work on behalf of the SDP Club here. In fact, the SDP club yesterday with surprise and infidelity received news that Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has denied recent statements by Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. In fact, after a session of the INA Parliamentary Investigation Commission, Mrs Kosor said: "I consider it more important that today, in a telephone conversation with Hungarian Prime Minister Orban, I continued the negotiations on the revision of the INA-E-MOL Diony Treaty, and we will soon meet on the subject." Hungarian Prime Minister Orban, through his spokeswoman Bertalan Havasi, says however, that such talks were not conducted during Croatian Prime Minister Budapest's summer visit on the phone. We have a very unpleasant situation for the country that the country's neighbouring country's prime minister is accusing the Croatian government of telling a lie. We expected the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to respond immediately, to send a serious diplomatic note to the Government of the Republic of Hungary and ask for an explanation and an apology. Namely, the Hungarian prime minister accused the prime minister of not telling the truth or simply speaking completely undiplomatically of lying. It is not only an insult to the prime minister, it is an insult to the entire Republic of Croatia, to all its citizens, and I think that we as a Croatian Parliament that must protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia cannot go beyond such an insult. We must ask to know the truth about it, if what Prime Minister Kosor is saying is true, then we have here an unpleasant diplomatic dispute at the pier. And if what Prime Minister Orban is saying is true, then now I don't know what time it is that Prime Minister Kosor is not telling the truth. First, she denied meeting with Polancec, ahead of his testimony to the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57713	Thank you very much. I have allowed you to make an unusual proposal, and you have now turned into something completely different that is not common.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57714	I'm making a request from the SDP Club, which is that Prime Minister Kosor comes to the assembly today to explain, maybe there's some logical explanation, we'd like to hear it, see how this happened if she's prevented the foreign minister from coming and explaining this new situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57715	Thank you very much. Now, for a moment, I would like to interrupt the debate on this agenda point and move on to the addition of the agenda by voting. Earlier today, a group of 58 SDP, HNS, IDS, Dragutin Lesar and Agent Daniel Srb, so 58 MPs sent a proposal to launch a trust issue to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranki Kosor, a proposal to launch a trust issue, is simply in accordance with Article 113(3). The Rules of Procedure shall enter into the agenda without decision, so that I will immediately determine that a proposal is included in the Parliament's agenda to launch a trust issue with the Prime Ministers of the Government of Jadranka Kosor and immediately forward this proposal to the Government, which is required to demonstrate itself on the proposal no later than 8 days after the date of the inclusion of this proposal in the agenda. It is not possible to debate or vote on trust before the 7 days following the date of delivery of the proposal to the Parliament, so from today, but within 30 days, it is necessary to discuss and vote on confidence from the delivery of the proposal to the Parliament. As regards other proposals for supplementing the agenda, Article 204(2) shall apply. Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose an addition to the agenda of the 20th session with 14 new points. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, second reading, Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intervention Act during unemployment, second reading. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judicial Academy with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of defence, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, first reading. Proposal for a Council Register Act, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities, first reading. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the RACVIAC Treaty-CENTR for Security Cooperation with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law amending the Act of Conduct and building conditions to encourage investment with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a Act confirming the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of a regional centre for assistance in the verification and implementation of arms control, an emergency procedure. Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010. Report on the outbreaks of discrimination for 2009 by the Ombudsman. Supplement on the work of the HRT Programme Council and implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the HRT Act, the HRT and HTV programmes for the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 and the HRT Directorate's Report on HRT's business in 2009. (The 2009 HRT Annual Report). Proposer of the HRT Programme Council and Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2009. The supplemental proposal is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. Score. Present 96, we have a quorum. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy, with the final proposal of the law, an emergency procedure? No objections. We're going to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. Or do you want to vote manually? Manually, well. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous, with 101 votes for and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Defence Cooperation? There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 101 votes for and 2 against the agenda, this legislative proposal has been included in the emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 101 for, 2 abstentions and this final bill goes into procedure by emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty on the Centre for Security Cooperation? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 102 votes for and 2 abstentions and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Act of Conduct and the conditions of construction in order to encourage investment? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? Restraint? unanimously with 104 votes for this final bill was included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of a regional aid centre for the verification and enforcement of arms control? There isn't. I'm putting this one to the vote. Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 104 votes for the agenda, this legislative proposal has been included in the emergency procedure. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 20th session? These are points 1 and 2, 6 and 7 and from 11 to 14 points submitted. Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension Insurance, Second Reading, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intervention Act for Employment, Second Reading, Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of State Lawyers, First Reading, Proposal for a Law on the Registration of a Council of Coordination and Council of Representatives of National Minorities, First Reading, Report on the application of pre-accession programmes for the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2010, Report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2009, the applicant for the Public Advocate, Completion of reports on the work of the HRT Programme Council and implementation of programme principles and obligations, Proposer of the HRT Programme Council and the Annual Report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition for 2009 No objections, no objections. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57716	Now we'd end the debate on this agenda point, since there are a lot of reported ones, so we'll continue it, hopefully, on Wednesday. And now we'd like to go to the vote and expand the agenda, supplement the agenda, so please let's get involved and see how we stand with the quorum. The result? 92 present. So we can decide on all points except one, if we don't get together in the meantime, more MPs apply. So, ladies and gentlemen, we'll move on to the 20th-session agenda with five new points. 1. Final proposal of the Law on humanitarian aid, that's second reading, P.Z. Number 525. 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, with a final proposal for a law, is also an emergency procedure. ... Yeah, that was another reading. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So this is an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 631. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Private Protection Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 632. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the patent law, with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 633. 5. Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2009 and the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2009, proposed by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The supplemental proposal is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Private Protection Act with the final draft law, P.Z. Number 632, point 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the patent law with a final draft law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. It shall comply with the provisions of the European Union and in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. Please see now if any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure, in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, P.Z. the number 631, point 2, of the SDP Representatives' Club. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57717	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We object to an urgent procedure in the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, because we believe that the subject is such that it does not require urgent procedure, but that it goes into two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57718	Thank you very much. Anyone else have any objections? If not, please include and vote on an emergency procedure, which was opposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go. Let's vote on urgency for this agenda item. The result? The proposal was not accepted, for 36, one abstention and 74 against. So it's not an emergency procedure, it's a regular procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 20th session, i.e. points 1 to 5? Proposal for a Law on humanitarian aid, Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Is there? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57719	Now I'd like to suggest that we determine the quorum. So far, 86. We have a quorum. First, I would like to propose supplementing the agenda of the 20th session with 9 new points: 1. Final proposal of the law on public enforcement, third reading, P.Z. No. 581, 2. Final proposal of the Executive Act, third reading, P.Z. No. 584, 3. Final draft law on areas and court seats, second reading, P.Z. No. 600, 4.Proposal of the Cooperative Act, first reading, 5.Proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the EC Regulation No. 3686/2008 The European Parliament and the Council on the Export and Import of Dangerous Chemicals, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, 6th Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements No. 1.The Treaty on the guarantee of 1 February 2005 between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, 7th Proposal for a Law on organic production and labelling of organic products, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 637, 8. Proposal for an amendment to the Declaration on the Fundamental Principles of Negotiations for Full Membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union and 9th Report on the work of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the INA of the Oil Industry d.d. and all contracts and additions between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner MOL Hungarian oil and gas plc. Proposer Investigation Commission. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress that the proposal for a law implementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 638 and Proposal for a law on organic production and labelling of organic products, with a final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure on the application of the emergency procedure when the law is passed. If any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements No. 1 The Treaty on the Guarantee of 1 February 2005 between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development? Bill No 636. There isn't. Are we going to vote manually or what? Manually. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that according to an emergency procedure of 104 votes, this law is included in the procedure unanimously. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 20th session, the Final Proposal for a Law on Public Executors, the Final Proposal for an Executive Act, the Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of the Courts, the Proposal for a Law on Cooperatives, the Proposal for an amendment to the Declaration on the Fundamental Principles of the negotiations for full-fledged membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, the Report on the work of the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts on Privatisation of the INA, etc. There isn't? Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57720	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. I welcome you all together, especially the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Vice-President, Minister and Minister, and I suggest that we put a few new points on the agenda first, not a few but 14. So 82 are present. We can start with a session. So, I'm going to suggest an addition to the agenda of the 20th session from the 14th new points. First, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information, that is second reading, P.Z.E. No. 570. Secondly, the proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Singapore Treaty on the Right of Marks with a final draft law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 638. Thirdly, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act with a final draft law, it is also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 639. Fourthly, the proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the EU co-financing project IPA, ISPA 2007 through 2011 with the final draft law, is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 640. Fifthly, the 2009 report on the state and management of stocks with financial indicators. Sixth, the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and the proposal for a projection for 2012 and 2013. Proposals for financial plans outside of budget users for 2009 and a projection proposal for 2012 and 2013 – (a) Croatian Waters, (b) Croatian Roads, (c) State Agency for the Insurance of Harmful Roles and Rehabilitation of Banks, (d) Croatian Privatisation Fund and (e) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Proposal for a State budget and financial plans of non-financial beneficiaries for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013 consolidated. Seventh, final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011, second reading, P.Z. No. 643. Eighth, Proposal for a Law on Suspension of Retirement of Pensions from 1 January to 31 December 2011 with Final Proposal for Law, Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 644. Ninth, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 645. 10th, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 646. Eleventh, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 647. Twelveth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 648. Thirteenth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 649. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 649. And fourteenthly, the draft Law on the termination of the Health Insurance Act, health protection at work with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 650. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act with the final draft law, P.Z.E. No. It shall comply with EU rules and in accordance with Article 161(1). We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. Please engage to check the quorum. Please only engage to control the quorum. The result? 106. So we can move on. I ask if any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Code of Confirmation of the Singapore Treaty on the Law of the Mark, P.Z. No. 638nd, point 2? If there are no objections, please we can vote by raising our hands because it will go faster. So I suggest that this point be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure. Who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? No abstentions. This proposal was accepted by 125, so unanimously, votes. Any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the financing of the Republic of Croatia and of the European Investment Bank for a co-financing project of the EU, IPA, ISPA 2007 to 2011, P.Z. No. 640th, point 4.? If not, please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Does anyone mind? The emergency proposal was accepted unanimously by 127 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to P.Z. asbestos? No. 645th point 9? If not, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? And this proposal was accepted unanimously by 129 votes. Does any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the law on the compensation of workers of professional asbestos, P.Z. the number 646th point 10? There isn't. Who's in favour of this proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? This proposal was also adopted unanimously with 130 votes. Does anyone have a representative or a representative of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the law on the compulsory health supervision of workers of professionally exposed asbestos, p.r.s. No. 647th point 11.? If not, who's in charge of the emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? The proposal was accepted unanimously with 130 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, p.r.s. No. 648th point 12? If not, please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. This proposal was adopted unanimously with 131 votes. Any of the representatives or advocates of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on compulsory health insurance p.z. No. 649th point 13.? If not, please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you and this proposal has been accepted unanimously with 131 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Health Insurance Act, health protection at work p.z. No. 650th point 14.? There isn't. Who's for this proposal, please? Thank you. Against? Thank you, unanimously with 131 votes, thank you for the unanimousity of the adoption of the agenda. If any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points on the agenda of the 20th session, these shall be points 1, 5, 6 and 7 of the proposed additions. Is there? Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57721	I have, for this third point for this road safety law, I don't see why it should be classified as European law. The only thing in this law is European penalties, but precisely because of these dragon penalties that are proposed does not have a feeling for the economic moment in which the Croatian families are located because of the fact that repression is not being resolved, so even in traffic, I suggest that this goes into some regular procedure. And what I actually answered for, that's this point six. Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 ... 13 etc., this budget was on the government's pages during yesterday, today it was discussed by committees, now it's on the agenda. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] I believe even that the business procedure here has been injured, but it has never happened that the budget itself is being debated at the 11th month, which is why you gentlemen are so panickingly afraid, which is why this one emergency, speed, unless you give Mr. Bajic a chance to do some work there by the 12th month. I think that's the basic reason why this budget is being sent now on the agenda, on the one hand. And on the other hand, why are you afraid that some otherwise elected MPs will not take an attorney's oath and sit in these...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57722	It has nothing to do with the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57723	There's a lot of work to put together all those carpets in his ministry, but that's never happened. Is anywhere in one European country ever... , had a chance to read the provisions, items of the position of the budget... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57724	Please, what do you have to do with the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57725	So he can get off the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57726	It's not about the agenda, the agenda can be interpreted whether it's gonna rain or not, in the afternoon, you can also connect. Please, we have voted out the urgency of the procedure at the proposed agenda points, here at paragraphs 1, 5, 6 and 7. Do you have any objections? If not, I find that the agenda including these 4 agenda points has been accepted along with other agenda points that I am asking not to read because I have read them all, not to read again. Please engage to control the quorum. I'm asking those who didn't get involved to control it. ... 81, but 73 turned on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, please. ... So you're suggesting manually? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Here, according to this above report, there are 82 MPs and MPs, so we can decide as suggested by hand-lifting. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament pursuant to Article 204, paragraph 2. I will propose a supplement to the agenda of the 20th session with 7 new points. First, the Final Proposal of the Law on HRT, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 586. Secondly, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, with the final proposal for a law, is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 641. Third, a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act with a final draft law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 642. And fourthly, the proposal of the Law on Electronic Money, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 651. Fifth, a proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation. Sixth, Statute of the Competition Protection Agency. Proposer of the Competition Protection Agency. Seven, the proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 659. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress that the proposal of the Law on Electronic Money with the final draft law, P.Z.E. No. 651, point 4, complies with EU rules in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty. We do not vote in the rules of procedure in the case of the adoption of this law. If any of the MPs or representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Water Act, point 2, P.Z. No. 641? Mr. Joseph Leco, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57728	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, the Water Act and the Water Finance Act provide for the reshaping of Croatian waters. This is a very important issue, and this is not about European law. So, a very important question, not for this generation of Croatians and citizens of Croatia, but for future generations, and I think it is our responsibility to consume this matter through 2 readings, get expert explanations, inform the professional public and then decide on it. It's a matter that deserves our special attention. And please consider that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57729	Thank you. So we have a proposal that this bill goes into the regular procedure proposed by MP Josip Leko. I assume the government is staying at the standoff to discuss an emergency procedure? Please, we'll decide. Here, who's in charge of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Please, we're counting because we said by raising our hands we'd decide. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The result is that this proposal is to discuss the urgent procedure 61 for, 22 against. Therefore, he remains in emergency procedure. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act, P.Z. No. 642, point 3? Here you go, Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57730	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament I was also talking about both laws on Croatian waters and on the financing of Croatian waters because they are, as I say, one whole, an organic whole. Once again, please, these are not laws harmonising Croatian legislation with EU legislation. This is where we decide our own future. Waters are resources that we must guard with all means without diplomacy. Therefore, I ask you to consider that this is a matter of transforming Croatian waters into a sharer's society and changing how to finance water, water flow, etc. This deserves representatives to consult with the public, the professional public and their citizens. Please consider that and spend it in two readings, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57731	Thank you very much. You heard Mr. Representative Joseph Lek objecting to the passing of this law by an urgent procedure. We'll decide now. Who is to propose that this law be passed by emergency procedure, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Therefore, the government's proposal was accepted to pass this law by emergency procedure 61 for, 23 against. Thank you very much. If any of the representatives or representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, that is, P.Z. No. 659 point 7.? Mr. Damir Caine, then Mrs. Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57732	The law can come out clearly on the agenda but let the conditions apply only to this team that is in power, so let the law be in force for 2011 when regular elections should take place. Don't you immediately rebel, gentlemen of the HDZ can't one government after she burned the country like I said this morning, the other is to tie your hands to 2011. That's what the proposal actually says, and you're setting the frameworks for me, and you have to respect those frameworks. What if 2011 is a positive growth of the gross social product, why shouldn't that budget be the same as it will then grow compared to this year 2010 and this planned size of yours for 2011 and 2012 respectively. All this is true for local self-government, there are some councils, some mayors, mayors, mayors, and then we leave them at a disposition to at least a little autonomy. And finally, just one more sentence, Mr. President. When it comes to the agenda of this Law, it should come during today, today we got it, we probably didn't even manage to read it all, so please let it come on the agenda at some appropriate time, not tonight, or tomorrow morning, come on tomorrow morning just give it more.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57733	Thank you very much. This is about whether there are any objections to an emergency procedure, you have an objection to an emergency procedure? And so did Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57734	I have an objection to an emergency procedure on behalf of the SDP Club, and we believe that it is possible to pass this law in a normal procedure, just because Article 12 has been established that the Government will adopt a regulation within four months relating to a declaration of fiscal responsibility, so that is where the heads of the ministries, i.e. local and regional self-government, should make such a statement by not only applying to the 2011 budget, but only to projections for the next three years, or budgets to follow. We believe that this law can be discussed in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57735	Thank you. You also have an objection to the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this Act, as this is now the case. So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Damir Cain and Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec have a point of view that this law is not adopted by an emergency procedure but rather by a regular procedure, so I assume that the government remains at its stand. We therefore vote on whether or not he is going through an emergency procedure. Who is in order for this law to be passed by emergency procedure, please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Restraint in the matter of urgency? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Therefore, this law will be discussed by an urgent procedure voted by 61 MPs, 24 against, no abstentions. Thank you very much. If any of the MPs and representatives have objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 20th session, these are points under the regular number of 1st, 5th and 6th additions. Final draft law on Croatian Radio Television, Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Croatian Management Board for Science and the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency. If there are no ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established. I would like to inform you that on the basis of Article 223. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure, and with the agreement of some clubs, that the items of the agenda final draft law amending the Law on the compensation of workers of professional asbestos, item 4 here in the consolidated agenda, 5. Final proposal for a law amending mandatory health supervision of workers exposed to asbestos and 9. The final draft law amending the Law on terms of acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos discusses together, unitedly. So three, four, five and nine. Then the 6th, 7th and 8th health care laws, compulsory health insurance and health insurance at work, united discussion as a second point. So 3+3 below 2. So that's what we're going to start because the clubs agreed on that at 3:00, starting with this first one under 4, 5 and 9. ... Who can predict how long something will last? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Tomorrow we start the budget at 10:00, which I don't know. So the vote on the budget at 10 o'clock. And this starts today at 3:00 like I said. Is there any objection since the clubs agreed on this? There isn't. Thank you. At 3:00, the 4th, 5th and 9. Thank you, and sweet, pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57738	Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, we oppose urgency, because this law, as well as the next four, deeply penetrates the budget that has just been passed. So we think we should discuss it in normal procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57739	Thank you. I am voting on the SDP Representatives' Club proposal proposed by Mr Andrija Hebrang to go to regular procedure. So, I'm voting on who's in favour of the urgency of the procedure when this law is passed? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. What? What about against it? We've got to go against it. The result? Maybe we'd better vote electronically so we don't have to wait against it. For 32, 71 against. So he didn't get into an emergency, he wasn't involved in an emergency procedure. Please second. Is there anyone other than Mr. Hebrang, who of the representatives notes the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Special Interest Tax, P.Z.E. No. 653nd point 2? There isn't. What? Please, let's get on with it. Here we are voting on the urgency of a procedure that is opposed to the HDZ Representatives Club. Whoever is in favor, so we vote on urgency. Please! Why? Because we're not gonna raise our hands three times, we're gonna figure it out now. So, please make a statement. The result? It's not listed as an emergency procedure. 26 for, 5 abstentions and 69 against. Third. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. P.Z. No. point 654.3 Proposer: Advocacy Club SDP. Mr. Hebrang suggested on behalf of the club that he go into regular procedure. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the process for the third item of the agenda. This emergency proposal didn't get most of it. He got 29 for, 1 abstention and 70 against. Any of the representatives have any objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on an additional value. P.Z.E. 655th point 4. Proposer: SDP representative club with opposition from Mr Hebrang. Please, let's get on with it. There are no more suggestions. Let's get involved and vote on the urgency of this proposal. The result? This emergency proposal didn't get the necessary majority, 28 for, nothing abstentioned and 71 against. Any of the representatives have any objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Obligation Payment Times Act, P.Z. No. 656 point 5. Proposer: SDP representative club. On behalf of the club, Mr. Hebrang suggested going to regular procedure. Please state by vote. Who's in favor of the urgency of the procedure? Neither did this proposal get support for urgency, 27 for, one abstention and 71 against. Any of the representatives and representatives of the objection to the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational transport programme for Community assistance under the pre-accession assistance instruments under the regional development component in Croatia, P.Z. No. 657, point 6.? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? Please, let's get involved and vote. This emergency proposal has received 97 support for, one abstention and two against. Any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational environmental protection programme, to assist the Community in pre-accession assistance instruments, as part of the component of regional development in Croatia, P.Z. 658, point 7.? There isn't. If there isn't, then let's vote on the emergency proposal. Here you go. Let's get involved and vote. This proposal has received 98 support for, no abstentions, nothing against, means unanimously. Any of the representatives or advocates of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation, with a secret technical addition between the Parties to the North Atlantic Cooperation Agreement on Atomic Information and the confidential security addenda to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation, is very readable and clear this sentence, P.Z. No. 662, paragraph 10? Is there? There isn't. Let's vote on urgency. Let's get involved and vote please. The result? And this proposal was supported by a majority of 94 votes in favour of, one abstention, nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen, any of the MPs or representatives of the objection to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 20th session agenda, these are points 9, and points 11 to 15 that I have proposed? There isn't. If not, then ladies and gentlemen of the council, we've established an addition to the agenda. Thank you very much. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to decide on the completion of the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 20th session with six new points. 1. Final bill of law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II, second reading, P.Z. Number 396 2. Final draft law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, second reading, P.Z. Number 544 3. Final draft law on areas and national courts, second reading, P.Z. Number 626 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Biofuels for Transport, with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 663 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Explosive Substances, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 664 6. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Peace Operation "EU NAVFOR Somalia-Atlanta". So this is 6 of the proposed points. This proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that the proposal is to be decided first and that an individual law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. And I stress that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act for transport, with the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. the number 663 of point 4, is in line with EU rules and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. Does any of the representatives and advocates have any objection to the urgent procedure in the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Explosive Substances, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 664 point 5? If there is no please let's get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure for this agenda item. Let's get on with it. The result? This emergency proposal was accepted by the majority of 99 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against. Thank you. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 20th session, these are points under paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 6 of the proposed additions? If there are no ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57741	Thank you, please establish the quorum. 78, I suggest we stop the debate for a moment and complete the agenda, given that some appear to have no keys here, I suggest we vote manually, if that's okay with you? We agree. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 20th session with seven new points. 1. Final proposal for a law on the process of confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal act and violation, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 595. 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the "Croatia for Children" Foundation law, second reading, P.Z. No. 622. 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 665, MPs Ana Lovrin, Ivo Grbić, Nevenka Marinović and Branko Kuti. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on foreign exchange transactions with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 666. 1. Proposal for a law on the State Audit Office, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 667. 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reception, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 668. 1. Proposal for a strategy for judicial reform for the period 2011 to 2015. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches, Article 205 of the Rules of Procedure regulates firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. I stress, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reception with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. the number 668 of point 6 is aligned with the European Union rules, and we do not vote in accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 665, promoters Ana Lovrin, Ivo Grbić, Nevenka Marinović, Branko Kuti? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Who is it for that law to go by emergency procedure, raise your hand? Please count. Against? Abstained? Thank you. I'm saying 77 for and 2 against. The law has been passed. The emergency procedure has been adopted. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the foreign exchange law, P.Z. No. 666, point 4. There isn't. Whoever is to apply an emergency procedure to the adoption of this Act, raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Abstained? I confirm that most of the votes 78 for and 1 abstention and 1 against the agenda are included in this legislative proposal. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining items of the agenda of the 20th session, these are points 1, 2, 5 and 7 of the proposed additions? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57742	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to propose an addition to the agenda, and we're going to go to a vote on the debated points. Please engage to determine the quorum. At 86, probably more, but there's enough for now. So I'm going to suggest an addition to the agenda of the 20th session with 7 new points. First, the Final Proposal of the Law on State Property Management, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 597. Second, Proposal for a Service Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 669. Third, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, with a final proposal for law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 670. Fourth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorneyship with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 671. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on the Hire and Sale of Business Space, First Reading, P.Z. No. 672. Sixth, Proposal for a Decision appointing judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, Proposer of the Committee on Justice. And the 7th, Proposal for a Decision on the List of Legal Persons of Special State Interest. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament? There isn't. Let's get on with it. We're going to the vote. Please, let's vote. The result? I find that with 94 votes in favour, and five abstentions in the agenda, this law is included in the emergency procedure. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 20th session? Final proposal of the Law on the Management of State Property, Proposal for a Law on Services, Proposal for a Law on the Hire and Sale of Business Space, Proposal for a Decision appointing Judges of the Supreme Court, and Proposal for a Decision on the List of Legal Persons of Special State Interest. There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57743	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin by asking a question to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure 180 to 184. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session prior to the first item of the agenda. The first is to ask the question is Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57744	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, my question has been addressed to Minister Mlakar. In June, we amended the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, with the entry into force in July, where the coordination of the National Minority Council has gained personality, legal personality, but it is obtained by enrolling them in the National Minority Council's coordination register. I ask the Minister when the National Minority Council coordination register will be established, or whether it is working on a law which will solve not only the work and domain of the work of coordination, but certainly also the financing when the analogy of Article 28 of the Constitutional Law has not already been applied, that the equivalent level of the National Minority Council is thus financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57745	Thank you. Mr. Minister Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57746	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs, Your Honor, Mrs. Chuhnil. It is true that you have found that the government is responsible for organising the National Minority Council Register Act, and representatives of national minorities in those units where no number was needed to form a council. The law was drafted, sent to the government's procedure, on the opinions of the ministries and will be prepared for first reading for this session of parliament. It does not address the issue of co-ordination financing, because we do not think it is the subject that should be regulated by the Register Act, but the register will be established here as soon as the law enters into force, it is prepared and will be submitted to this session of the Parliament for first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57747	Thank you. Mrs. Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57748	Thank you, dear ministers, but the National Minority Council register is set up without law, which means that the coordination register could also be established, and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is talking about a law that will regulate the work and funding of coordination. So I asked exactly what was wrong with this law, and we certainly welcome the Register Act if it solves the whole issue and councils and representatives from the level of municipalities or cities to the level of normal coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57749	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57750	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Finance, Mr Ivan Shuker. Reports on the financial audit carried out by the City of Rijeka, submitted by the State Audit Office for years, indicate the unintended spending of budgetary resources. According to these same reports in the period from 2005 to 2009, there are 148 million kunas in the city of Rijeka that are not intended for use. Therefore, part of the revenue from the municipal fee, from the monumental rent, concession fees, etc., was not spent on the law of the prescribed purpose but on the current budgetary needs but not as determined by the Law but according to the will of the Mayor of Rijeka. From year to year, the State Audit Office requires the spending of strictly dedicated revenues in accordance with the legal provisions but in Rijeka, which some say is the most transparent city in the Republic of Croatia, of course, they do not adhere to it. In doing so, the mayor himself at city council meetings declares that he has spent and will continue to spend budgets unintendedly and not as the law requires but as he says. In these and similar statements, we have long been used in Rijeka, however, which is in this case with the responsibility of the mayor, whether he may disregard the State Audit, the legal provisions and spend budgets in such a non-transparent and irresponsible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57751	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57752	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. So the Budget Law clearly defines who is responsible for the implementation of the state budget, both income and expenditure parties, and the Budget Law also defines that dedicated funds or funds for special purposes can be used exclusively for that purpose. However, what is equally important is that I must mention that this House in the adoption of the annual report of the Croatian Parliament, the State Audit, contains, among other things, a brief report on the operations of local self-government units, usually this House of Higher Education, which should be followed by certain state institutions. However, it is obvious that for some laws they are not laws. Because when it comes to teaching how someone else should do it, when it comes to sending messages that should be closed in this country, then we're very loud. However, when a broom is to be taken and moved in front of its own door, there is simply no broom. However, what is the authority of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, we can send there budgetary surveillance, find out what the State Audit has already found only once, but given that the infringements that seem to be systematically for several years, I think that the State Audit should, in fact, warn and send warnings to certain institutions, because it is also evident that the collection of budget revenues, the part relating to the city of Rijeka, is not as up-to-date as it should be. On the other hand, I will publicly say that after a few queries and memos both by my side and by the Ministry of Finance to deliver concession contracts we did not get that answer, although the mayor claimed that he had sent it, that he had not received something, there are documents that were neatly passed all the procedure. But I repeat, teaching someone else's lessons, making up guilt and accusing her easily when there's no one to answer. However, when a broom is to be taken, move at its own door, there is no one there. However, I would also like to say that the Ministry of Finance had one report before the Council of Corruption and it is clear exactly what the evaluation of the Council and its president was as long as the cameras were present and until they simply could not oppose the arguments, but as soon as the cameras went out, then the story is the same. However, all those who are so loudly objecting that the government should and should do, should first correct the mistakes in its own backyard, move in front of their own doors, and all state institutions, regardless of what they are at local level, should deal with certain things, because look, if we do not agree, I will point out the example, some may not like it, but, at the time of the budget rebalancing, Mrsic has made one conclusion that, given the new situation, we have to change certain legal regulations, we agreed that we should do so. It's something that if we want to change things, we should do something, because the law is equal to everything and the law has to apply. Therefore, someone can't say I don't like some things, I'll do it so no matter how much I break the laws, by making more money especially from selling apartments over which there is a tenant right are quite defined why these funds are used and the question of how many people who have certain problems have been found on the margins of society, in Rijeka they expect to buy from those funds that they might get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57753	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Buterin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57754	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with your response, although I don't think it will prevent the mayor of Rijeka's will. If we know that Rijeka is being shaken from market to political cancellations, after which the city budget pays expensive compensation, then we have every reason to wonder where they are and how budget money has been spent but what kind of message is actually sent by Mr. Mayor who declares that he has spent and that he will continue to spend unintended budget funds. I would say one more thing here, and that is that the laws of the Republic of Croatia are binding on all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and actually in this case the mayor should be the first to show it by example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57755	Thank you. She's going to ask Mrs. Agent Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57756	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I'm going to ask the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Poppie. On the island of Ugljan, in Kukljica on the beautiful Green Punta there is a tourist village of 76 thousand square meters. In the early 1990s, when the settlement was a stock company, mostly owned by small shareholders, it had a capacity of 1000 beds, and employed 86 permanent and 40 seasonal workers, so 126 jobs in a small island town. In 2001, Coning tourism buys shares of Varazdinski..., shares of workers, small shareholders and becomes a majority owner. Maybe it's a coincidence, and maybe it's not that this firm is owned by a then-HNS minister in a coalition government, and it's not that it's at that time in power in the HNS Kukljica. Formerly small shareholders, now only employees have kept up with the promises they've been given to sell, that this settlement will now be modernised by a powerful owner. But none of these occurred in nine years from 2001 until today, the capacity of the village fell to at least half. The settlement is devastated. Of those 126 workers today, 10 remain. Mr. Minister, does the Ministry or the Government have any way, can they take any kind of action to force such ones, it used to be called purses that have cheaply picked up shares from workers without investing, or kunas, ruined successful businesses, mainly significant for islands? Is there any way for them to respond financially or taxfully, to sanction themselves, to force themselves to put acquired entrepreneurship properties into office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57757	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Drinker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57758	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. So you've already said a set of amazing data in the matter. So, at one of the largest and most precious locations, I would say the entire Adriatic, and we don't have to speak on the island of Uglen, here I've tried to search Google, so this is a peninsula that closes the settlement of Kukljica which is exactly opposite to the Marine Sukosan. So, the location that's definitely worth the gold today. At that location of 76 thousand squares, in 1970 90 bungalows were built with 500 beds to make it in '85. year upgraded with 20 apartment buildings with 500 beds. Like you said in '98. In 2001, the Varazdin PIF acquires 30% of its ownership, and in 2001, Coning tourism buys shares from small shareholders and thus becomes the majority owner. After that time there is agony and this company, but also the whole place. Today we have a situation that there are only 500 beds left, probably those that have not fallen apart in those bungalows that are still for use, but unfortunately these beds are even in the condition in which they are not rented for tourist purposes but are rented for the accommodation of workers of the nearby shipyard. This is indeed an obvious example where for who knows what reasons an economic operator who is known in public and known as one of the most successful and who sends messages from the political scene, so also to this government to know how to rebirth the Croatian economy on this example to the 76 thousand squares of the most attractive area in this county certainly shows one of the most attractive in Croatia in what way he thinks and can master and whether he knows or whether he is willing to show it by his example. We certainly don't have a way to penalize bad businessmen right now unless they respect their obligations to the state and to the workers. However, it is worth considering and worth finding ways simply to motivate them if they do not see themselves doing harm to the local community, you said that out of 120 employees today there are 10 left to do to the entire Croatian economy damage, to simply find mechanisms that can't do it anymore. Because today there is a great interest in foreign investors, of course the host of investors in the domestic industry. However, it is very rare to find on the Croatian Adriatic such a location 76,000 squares that are fully ready to build modern tourist facilities. What's the reason? The reason is simple, so he's not investing, I've invested nothing, I'm not investing anything, but I'm making money, because of course the price of that location is already hundreds of times higher today than it was when it was taken over. Thank you for asking, and we will certainly consider in the Croatian Government how this is no longer possible in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57759	Thank you. Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57760	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm extremely pleased with the answer. I am sorry that there are no more effective measures at the moment, but I am certainly pleased that you will consider the measures, because this is not a lonely case of this entrepreneur's entrepreneurship, but others as you have said that it breaks the current government's advice on how to start the economy, but obviously that recipe does not know how to apply in its own backyard, does not know how to run its cheaply acquired entrepreneurship property, but is obviously waiting to increase the cost of land and do nothing by doing that. And then current Minister Cacic, who promised 300 thousand new jobs, lost jobs in his backyard, so his 120 employees were out of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57761	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Gjurjica twilight's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57762	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, Honored fellow MPs and MPs. So here's the question before me is we've already learned about a hypocritical and inconsistencies policy run by the coalition government, and the statements they're making. The last among them is Mr. Zoran Milanovic's statement that there is no idea who's drinking and who's paying. Well, ma'am, you know exactly who's gonna pay and who's gonna pay. I'm going to ask the Prime Ministers. Madam President, in which five billion kunas were to be invested today, which was to be paid out of the budget by the Government, at the expense of the lawsuits filed on behalf of the unions by damaged workers who had been abolished by collective agreements, the Labour Act was amended, so much about the social sensitivity of the then coalition government. In 2000, immediately to show their patriotism and their statehood, they fired 10 thousand police and military workers, abolished rights to defenders, birth benefits, did not pay Christmases, and, of course, with the help of the unions, sued for 5 billion kuna. Madam President, what would that mean today, what would you bet on?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57763	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57764	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam MPs and gentlemen MPs. Each government of course has its priorities, each government presents its programme to the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of a programme that the Croatian Parliament accepts or does not accept, makes decisions and works. The priorities for the government I run today are very well known, so the implementation of the economic recovery programme is going well. Only one measure has not been implemented so far, and it is related to the amendments to the Labour Act, but also to the fight against corruption, I have presented it here before the Croatian Parliament as one of the foundations of our government's work and therefore we have certainly received your support, but also the conclusion of negotiations and entry into the European Union. As you know, we as a government managed to unblock the negotiations, continue negotiations. Today we finally have all the chapters open, most of them closed, and we are sure that most of the chapters will be closed by the end of this year, perhaps two more early next year, and that by the end of the Hungarian Presidency we will sign the accession agreement and finish our work on Croatia's accession to the European Union. We are overcoming all the difficulties and difficulties related to the privatisation of the shipyard, as well as other economies that are not simple or easy. So, every government makes a decision that is its priorities. As you know, this government, our government did not go to break over the knee any problems that were on the table regarding both salaries and pensions, or to reduce the expenditures of the state budget. I am more secure today than ever that we have done very well when we have not reduced salaries and pensions through the rebalancing of the state budget, although many have pushed us into it, and that is precisely what those who said that the government that would come, their governments, even though I think that every government is a Croatian government and every government has to take care of the interests of all citizens, that it will bring it back. So, we decided not to cut further because we reduced the wages as you know to state and public services last year, but certainly not to cut pensions, so to keep the standard of citizens and thus not to crash further spending. I think it was further that way to support the economy. We also did not break up unilaterally collective agreements with state and public services, as you said that the unilateral termination of these contracts in some times brought only lawsuits and those lawsuits that were generally all received. So it's about the big money. Certainly and related to the rights of the defenders that we later had to pay back. But I would say something that I think is crucial in these times. It doesn't make any sense to go back and forth all the time. We need to concentrate on what is today, on what is this moment, doing the best we know, working on the trail, and here's a charter that we could see the other day, proposed by the National Competitiveness Council, where both representatives and governments and trade unions, the academic community, etc., so how to plan our future 20 years in advance. I think now is the time for all those who really good Croatia to support the government on reform projects. The first exam may be an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, not a reform of the pension system, one amendment to a law that can help, or that can help us maintain the system, but also many other changes. The second test will, of course, be the adoption of a fiscal responsibility law that will bind the government in three years in advance, related to what the name itself says, fiscal responsibility. We have made, although not all MPs in the Croatian Parliament voted for it, which I am very sorry for, but we have made, I think it was a bold decision, a decision that the expenditures of the state budget cannot be increased in the coming years, which does not mean that they cannot be reduced. So here's the clue to your question. I don't think there's too much point in turning into the past. Let's turn to the present and turn around, maybe the best, which is what everyone will understand, the future that is ultimately the future of our children. Finally, about the reduction of birth benefits rights and the rest in that system you mentioned. We've invested in the family, we've invested in the most intelligent policy. The results are already visible, 5,000 more children were almost born last year compared to 2003. It is therefore worth investing in, and this is not a social investment, it is an investment in the future in the economy and it is certainly one of our strategic goals. Therefore, Madam MPs, in a lot of projects of course would be invested in the economy, certainly here in building dormitories, investing in science and education, these 5 billion could be invested, but this is a really distant past now. We work for the benefit of Croatia today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57765	Thank you. Mrs. Mrs. twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57766	Thank you, Madam President. I'm happy with your answer. And the fact is that we don't need to go back in time, but here's the future and the present talking about the head of a municipality called Zlatar, who made 39 million kunas, and now two months of kindergarten aunts don't get paid. Well then we have the temporary budget of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb is mildly said in a blockade, so I will not be counting any further, but all of this will be paid by the gentlemen of this government from the budget and the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57767	Thank you. Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57768	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Madam Minister and Minister. I have a question for the Minister of Culture, Mr. Boza Bishop. Mr. Minister, as we know, Nikola Tesla is one of the greatest names of Croatian science and invention, one of the great names of world science and the invention of modern times. Nikola Tesla until '91. Until the 9th, 10th month in Gospić, he had a monument, the work of the great Croatian sculptor Kršinić and he had a square. Today, after the monument was mined and after the square, the name from the square was removed from the monument that we had in 2006 as part of the programme of marking 150 years since the birth of Nikola Tesla, when the government restored the memorial centre and home home house of Nikola Tesla and when we had a great ceremony about it, it was then, as part of this programme, restored to the foundation of the replica that exists outside the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade of Kršinič, and the monument with the intention of returning to where it was. So, from 2006 until today, that intention has not been realized. We understand it was the '91s. The years that thought Tesla was the same thing as Martic. But we can't believe there are any today. We can think it was the '91s. who believed it was more important that Tesla was of Serbian origin than the great Croatian and world scientist. But that there are even today who think that there are more important than Tesla that came from that area and how more important they should be before Tesla can understand that. But one thing I want here from this pay phone is to say the urbi et orbi. If someone doesn't want Tesla, for example in Gospić, fine. But let's say that, and then we'll look for a place for Tesla's memorial elsewhere. There are certainly many places in Lika and Croatia that would be proud to have Kršenić's monument in the glory of Nikola Tesla. I am asking you as Minister of State, because in the last five years we have not talked about it five times more than we have talked about, to finally give us an answer whether the monument of Nikola Tesla is wanted in Gospić or not. If he doesn't want to, then let's start an initiative to put him where people want him to be, that he may be who he is, and that's Croatia's pride and pride on us Serbs from Croatia because in the past over 100 years, I've been proud of my Serbian family and Croatian country, wanting to or not wanting to define a type of policy that we believe, which we are behind and which has contributed to Croatia in the way that we think is best possible. That's why I'm asking you not to extend this anymore and get an answer as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57769	Thank you. However, the time has come to ask questions, and yet I ask you to take care of it. Mr. Bishop. Minister Bishop, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57770	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, it is true that on the occasion of 150 anniversary of birth, but also on our proposal to mark the year by UNESCO Nikola Tesla, one of the world's truly greatest scientists and of course Croatian, that the Croatian government had joined the arrangement of the memorial complex in the first infrastructure and demining because it was still partly mined there. That a memorial complex and museum in the home house were later arranged, that an economic building was arranged, that a church was arranged and set up a monument of professors at the Zagreb Academy of Mile Blažević in front of the memorial centre. A monument to the great Croatian author Fran Kršenic, died in time during the Homeland War. On that, in the square where he was, a fountain was built in that place. As you mentioned, we were able to make a drain, not a replica, but a drain from the same monument. There are only three of them now: one is in Niagara, one is in Belgrade and one is currently in Zagreb at the left hand. And we ran this whole activity and rebuilding the memorial centre and everything that was related to Tesla along with the town of Gospić, the town of Gospić was all involved. And after that we agreed, we saw with the mayor that the monument would be set up, that they would determine the place where the monument would be placed. I've talked to the mayor recently about it. He told me that even inside the city, it's in the jurisdiction of the city where they're going to set up a monument, that it hasn't been solved yet, that they've had a few suggestions, that they've had some arrangements, so that the space that promised them space had given up but that it would certainly be resolved by the city. It would be good, it would be good if this were your question and stimulating, because it's in the front row of a great world scientist. But on the other hand, one of the largest Croatian sculptors of the 20th century Fran Kršenic who made the monument.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57771	Thank you. Mr. Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57772	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We don't think it's good that the city determines where the monument will be, unless it works in agreement with the government and those who participated in the definition of the programme of the 150th anniversary of Nikola Tesla's birth. That understanding of things has taken five years. No one guarantees that five more years will pass and no one guarantees that Tesla's monument will not end up in a place where we will not consider it worthy of that name and that size as author, sculptor Fran Kršenic, so Nikola Tesla as a scientist and inventor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57773	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic will ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57774	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Minister. I'd like a question for Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Mr. Minister, several months ago, Croatian media reported that US investigators have proven undeniably that some Croatian officials from the former SDP, Racan's government, are included in the international corruption network. Therefore, regarding the purchase of fire trucks from the company Daimler in 2003 and the mention of bribes in million amounts. My question is that the investigation is progressing in the Daimler case and when the Croatian public will finally find out who the actors of this affair are and who asked SDP's people for and received millions of bribes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57775	Thank you. Mr. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57776	Thank you very much. Your Honor, it's not a dispute here, so if anyone took bribes, it's who took bribes. Indeed, Daimler admitted to corrupting a number of officials, and in the United States he made a deal where he paid a large sum of money. In that settlement, it's clear what you said. What I can share here with you is that the investigation is being conducted intensively, that the investigation is extremely complex. Because apparently those who have received have very well hidden the clues leading to them and here the investigation is not only being conducted through our state bodies but also being carried out through international legal aid where we need help and the bodies of other countries. What I can say is that the Croatian government has created strong mechanisms and tools that the State's Attorney's Office, BUSKOK and police can use in such processes. I am deeply convinced that they, because I repeat, do not dispute whether anyone has received it, but who has received it, that those who have received it will not escape the hand of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57777	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57778	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with your answer. Here is the full support of the introduction of all these instruments, the mechanisms for dealing with corruption. I believe the subject is complex, but it is a corruption network, and we all hope together that we will soon find out the actors of this affair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57779	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57780	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam President. I also refer my question to Mr. Drazen Bošnjakovic. Recently, there was an unsettling event in Rijeka when, as part of the exhibition, the Slovenian artist cut and destroyed the Croatian flag, a symbol of Croatian statehood. I cannot, of course, interfere with the opinion of artistic criticism, I am not professional enough, but it is not the mayor of Rijeka who later justified the act. And please, can you answer what measures are taken... , since it is about defilement of the Croatian state, defenders and the entire people. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57781	Mr. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57782	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I also think that the facts here are not controversial, because it is indisputable that there has been the burning of the Croatian flag, and of course we are all sensitive to the Croatian flag because our defenders have actually died for that Croatian flag, our defenders have lost their health and we are absolutely certain that we are very sensitive to such acts. But there is no doubt that a criminal application has been filed here, a criminal application has come to the competent state's attorney's office and the competent state's attorney's office is assessing whether there are any elements to file an indictment. Both you and I can have an opinion on this, however, only the competent authority in the Republic of Croatia to file an indictment, and later in fact also to conduct proceedings and sanctioning the State's Attorney's office and court. I believe that this procedure will be completed very quickly, that the procedure will therefore be presented to the public and I expect quick solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57783	Thank you. Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57784	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The authorities are therefore doing their job, but I can't seem to take away the impression that there's anything in this Word that I can do without saying saying say and insult, and the champion in that discipline is one of our fellow citizens on the left who I wouldn't even want to mention a name, who's known for his time that he's come across almost to the President of the Parliament, and a short time ago he insulted the Prime Minister, and he's good at saying something about him today. But it's good today when we wear this badge stop violence against women to mention it, because surely today, on the left, there will be a lot of those who will talk about women's rights. But I didn't hear anyone mention it, nobody mentioned any criticism about the move, even in front of the Committee on Gender Equality. And I say to you that my old wise grandmothers in the country would say Slavek, Slavek, shame on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57785	Thank you very much. I think we can hold off a little bit, we can allude, but let's not directly know. It's not. Mrs. Mirela Holly will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57786	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, you recently met with EU Justice Commissioner Vivian Reding. On that occasion, she has rightly objected to Croatia's fight against corruption has stalled, as there is still not a single conviction for corruption when it comes to senior officials. She warned that this could be a problem in closing chapter 23 of the judiciary. How did you react to that criticism? That's inappropriate. You said the numbers two and three, summed up to five, which means a clean five for Croatia to fight corruption. This is a terrible downsizing of the EU's serious remarks, and must have caused damage to Croatia. With this unserious comment you wanted to show that you can count, so I ask if you can calculate the total damage suffered by Croatia because of the mild corruption climate provided by the party and by the government that you have been leading for the past year, and 7 years before that you were the deputy and right hand of Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57787	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57788	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs, I can't believe you're so uninformed as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, so you haven't even finished reading what Mrs. Reding said, and what kind of game it was, when you already mention the numbers, what was the game of the two of us around the numbers. Let me get this straight. Mrs. Reding said that 23 is a happy number and that she therefore believes that we will successfully complete all our tasks and that we will successfully close chapter 23. After that, of course, I played the same game, so I said that I agree and that two and three of course are five, etc. Therefore, Mrs Reding did not give criticism in this way that you would like to present, Mrs Reding certainly supported the government in everything that the government does in the fight against corruption, after the two of us had a meeting together where we exchanged opinions on what Croatia is doing. I personally received support as Prime Minister. I'm sorry it doesn't make you happy, and it should, because it is about Croatia's interests. The national interest of Croatia is to close Chapter 23 and conclude the negotiations and you should give me and the Government full support in this, not insinuating and dissuading, in the Croatian Parliament, of course. As far as your question is concerned, Mrs. Reding asked for a conviction, so ask me. Well, you'd also have to know, Madam Representative, that in Croatia, and I'm going to teach you, there is a trio of power. So executive it is the Government, legislative it is the Croatian Parliament and of course there are courts, so there is also this third pillar of government. You should also know that the Government in no way, not only can it not, it says the Constitution, whether it means something to you or not, that is another question, it cannot and must not affect the courts, to judges in the judgment process. Because the government is working in the fight against corruption. What's her job. It creates an uninterrupted political atmosphere that is favourable to combating corruption and calls on you to engage, to include yourself in not being nervous when the fight against corruption touches one of your members. So, anyway, to say that it's good, let's open everything up, let's go clear everything up, let's make sure the police are doing their job uninterrupted, and not that exactly from your party's ranks, the Home Secretary is calling what names they call because they're professionally doing their job. We are going to open up a space for the work of an independent state attorney's office, we have done it further in the amendments to the Constitution, it is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and what is extremely important without which government cannot do, providing enough resources for the whole work to be done uninterrupted, it is our job and we consistently do it. Still final, Madam Representative, as I said to the lady..., until the end of the absence, regardless of the threats that come from many sides, regardless of blackmail, regardless of the pair I would say sometimes and the racket we go to the end to see who did anyway from the Deimler affair to any other affair, let's see, and finally you need to know, you know everyone is innocent until a judicial verdict proves it to him, it says our Constitution and we have to respect it all. Therefore, I think, in conclusion, of our finding of damage, it damages Croatia, above all, those who are making every effort not to close Chapter 23 and that we do not have results in the fight against corruption. The government is in this business and in this fight on the opposite side and we're going to the end and like I said without the rest, it certainly liked it whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57789	Ms. Representative Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57790	Of course I'm not happy with the answer because you didn't give the particular number I asked you to, and it seems to me that it's not clear to you that Chapter 23 of the judiciary would be closed before that half of your government will have to be closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57791	Madam MPs, for who knows which time I point out that we are neither the court nor the prosecution or the USKOK, whether someone is going to close or not we do not decide, the institutions of the Republic of Croatia which, by law and by the Constitution, have to work. And so to talk about who should be arrested and so on, it always bothers me when it's addressed in one direction only, if you were a little more self-critical then you'd find maybe just some remarks very close to you. But you won't. Well, don't, because in that case, you don't have to be a judge or a prosecutor or an investigator. I ask you to refrain from such statements, insults and labels because Parliament is not a courtroom. Mr. Silvano Hrelja will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57792	Your Honor, Mr. President, all present, I'm asking the Minister of Economy, Mr. Djura Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57793	I'm sorry, please, I didn't see that, for hurting the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57794	Mr. President, I did expect that you would still make a warning, because Article 214 is injured because Mrs. Holly is actually insulting the entire Parliament as an institution, because sometimes the party has tried and sued but there is no more in democratic states, Croatia is a democratic state and today your party can neither judge nor sue, nor prosecute, and you understand it once more. Learn at least, read the Constitution and learn how Croatia is organized today and that the court of the party is no longer valid, and Mr. President, we expect a warning for such a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57795	It is the authority of the chair to assess when to give notice, I am reluctant to apply the institute, however, please, the appeal to Article 214 is in place because it says by its conduct that it deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. General behaviour in the Parliament is not to talk about the government going to jail or half the government. Please. I will refrain from giving a warning this time, however, I ask you all to stick to it, anything can be said and criticisms and remarks etc., in a democratic and correct way, should not be reached for such qualifications. I ask you to refrain from it because if someone wants to get points like that, I think that's how the points are very thin and mean mostly lack of arguments. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, I apologize for interrupting, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57796	Thank you very much, Mr. President, as I said my question was to ask the Minister of Economy, Mr. Gyura Popioč. Mr. Minister, do you feel responsible for making your announcement to amend the Peace Act and increasing the punishment of early retirement pensions go away or will go away 20 thousand workers who have not yet planned to do so. This reduced budget revenues by at least 250 million kuna, increased pension expenditures by at least 500 million kuna at year level, and there is no new employment in the former jobs of these workers. So, do you feel responsible for this panic and damage that it didn't have to come to because this really isn't about a elemental accident or maybe or maybe this is all a thought-out strategy for employers to get rid of the excess workers less cheaply?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57797	Thank you. Mr. Minister Djuro Poppie, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57798	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. By this time, in the early retirement of this year, a little more than 12,000 citizens and citizens had gone, while during the last year when there was no talk and when the law was consumed in a way that was consumed somewhere less than 19,000. So you could also call me if I feel guilty in the context of the last question, but okay. You asked if I felt responsible. I feel responsible to this extent unless we do anything to try to make the pension system as quick and as sustainable as possible. Today for the existing pensioners, and I remind you that the past rebalance protected the status of pensioners and the standard of pensioners unlike the proposals that naturally came from your side to cut expenditures, and the Croatian government did not allow that. And also, even though you're aware of the unpopular move, and that's what you're doing right now, you're forcing people to retire, you're encouraging them, and you're creating this panic. Because this isn't a penalization. So the existing relationships between those who work and those who leave early in retirement are deeply unfair to those who work longer. That's how it's right to talk, and that's how it's right to interpret. So it's not normal for one who works longer and longer in the pension system, but we'll have a chance to talk about it when the Retirement Law comes in, it's not normal for him to receive a smaller pension in his entire retirement internship than he who works shorter and makes shorter payments to the pension system. So, if you want to approach the problem of the pension system correctly and responsibly, which we are aware of is a deep problem. He has not at any point been threatened until now as far as pension payments or anything, but quite certainly for today's pensioners and future generations of pensioners, but also for today's workers who pay in this pension system we must take these steps to make this system sustainable and that it could simply be funded over the long years to come. That's why, of course, I don't feel responsible. I'd feel responsible if I didn't do anything. And when I do and when I try to solve problems, I don't feel responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57799	Mr. Minister, I'm not happy with your answer, but I can say that your sense of responsibility is acceptable to me. But the problem is something else. I'm behind what you said, and you're doing the opposite. So it's incomprehensible that out of all the problems and anomalies in the pension system, a problem that doesn't actually exist is solved. As it is incomprehensible that it is proposed to punish those already punished, i.e. those who are in the pension insurance system entering the highest pension standing and payment of contributions. They want one-fifth pension because they're five years old, even if they're 43 years old. The average working hours of early retirement are 38 years. The highest of all categories of pensioners, and they are the only ones who are punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57800	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57801	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd be free to ask the Prime Minister's question to Mrs. Kosor. Recently, a European renowned diplomat and former High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Christian Schwarz-Schilling, said that in Belgrade they still think that Serbia's great is possible. Unfortunately, this programme has not been abandoned, it is still under way, so my question is, has the government assessed the dangers that exist throughout Croatia and determined which political options in Croatia are ready to work towards achieving these plans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57802	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57803	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, so allow me just a little bit of the creation of a single framework related to the answer to your question. So, to conclude a few facts. Croatia is today on the verge of completing its negotiations to join the European Union, Croatia is today a proud member of the NATO Alliance. So, the NATO alliance certainly isn't just a military alliance, it's much wider and economic but that fact I ask you to consider. We have made a lot of efforts to achieve NATO entry, which we have marked as one of the strategic foreign policy but also internal policy objectives, and that is the fact that we need to move on in this response. We are, as I said, on the threshold of the conclusion of the negotiations for entry into the European Union, that is also our strategic say and historic goals. We are actually coming home when we become 28 members of the European Union, we will really go back to where we belong, so for a table of European countries and peoples. It's the civilization circle we belong to. On the other hand, and now I'm talking about the government's position and the ruling coalition, we're taking on at the same time, it's a well-known fact, and we're working on that trail, that through here we are to conclude the negotiations, and especially when we're a member of the European Union, we force our neighbours and south-east Europe on their Euro-Atlantic path as well. Why? Because we believe it is in the best interests of all our neighbours, in the best interests of this part of Europe and if you want this part of the world and because we think it is ultimately permanent security, that is to guarantee the lasting security and stability and prosperity of all the countries and peoples in this part of Europe. Therefore, one of as you have heard, as you know the main objectives of the government, is to complete negotiations, speed up negotiations, finish next year, sign an accession contract and then, of course, implement all of your projects and economic and others as a member of the European Union. Of course we're deeply aware of the past we've been through. The fact is that Croatia has been a victim of aggression, and it's ruthless aggression, and that many of the consequences are still felt today in the economy, in the human victims, in the ones we're looking for, and I'm not going to talk about it. But Croatia is also and I think I speak not only now as a member and as Prime Minister, but to speak much wider, so knowing that the commitment of the Croatian Parliament is to turn exclusively towards the future. Therefore, we have changed the Constitution we have and in the Constitution are clearly defined in which association the Republic of Croatia will be. It is, as the Constitution says, and all our efforts, the European Union, we as the 28th member and as a member of the NATO Alliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57804	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Srb, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57805	Thank you for your response. What causes concern in me is the fact that in one part of Croatia, free to carry weapons that are illegal, unregistered, so the President of the Jelen Hunting Society in Mirkovac says: we have not yet qualified hunting permits because we have no money for it. On the other hand, in other parts of Croatia, there is a very strict implementation of the Arms Act. In addition, it is unfortunately funded by taxpayers' money and such publications issued by one of the current government's coalition partners. And besides the fact that the government unfortunately has no money for an adequate award to Croatian water police, there is money to buy apartments that will be awarded to ten JNA officers who led the attack on Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57806	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57807	Thank you very much. My question goes to Prime Minister Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, on the INA committee, Mr. Polancec and Schooker say contradictory things. Shuker says Polancec has done everything he has to do with INA on his own, and Polancec says all the details are being decided by the HDZ presidency. You were a participant in these INA meetings, and you were in a secret meeting with Polancec about a month ago. It's obvious that with regard to INA one of your closest associates, Polancec or Shuker, he's lying. I ask you who and did you read INA contracts unlike Minister Shuker before voting on them?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57808	Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57809	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative. It's not fair, you asked me a few questions, I have limited time, but I will try to answer what I think is the essence of your question. About the testimony, I wasn't and I'm not a member of the committee as you know. You have members of the committee from your party, so I believe you have phonograms available. As far as I could hear, see, and of course hear in the consultations, it's not exactly what you're saying the witnesses, so those who were called to testify, said differently. They were talking maybe for a different performance. The fact that one of the witnesses was from your party, a member of the commission, your party referred to the question of how he felt, no one referred to the Deputy Prime Minister such a question, and no one cared how he felt as Vice President of the Government who testified on the commission. So, but the facts I'm going to talk about, they didn't speak contradictoryly, they said the same thing, similar to how much information I have from what I've seen, but it's best to read a phonogram from a committee session. That's best and my proposal, let the commission finish its work. No one was charged there, as far as I know about the commission's work, that's where the people came to testify. Your question about my meeting with Damir Polancec. The question, of course, is very trendy, but I will answer it only with arguments to those who are known to the Croatian public. It's not about INA because it was about a secret meeting. I also made it very clear in my statement that I informed all those who needed to know something about this meeting, very precisely today in front of the Croatian Parliament and before the meeting of the State's Attorney's Office and after the meeting of the State's Attorney's Office. I think I was absolutely entitled to that kind of meeting. At that meeting, of course, I also told the details of what had to be said to those, or where they should have been said, and I see absolutely nothing controversial about it. And the fact is, and now I can repeat it in front of the Croatian Parliament that even then I told Mr Polancec, as I'm telling everyone just telling the truth, it's the best way to solve all the questions. And at that moment, as you know, my meeting with Damir Polancec he was not convicted of any act according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia at this stage. Therefore, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, he was absolutely not responsible at that time. But since you're already asking that question, of course, then I can answer the question. How is it not disputed for you, and other meetings are not disputed in other processes. Of course, this is not about the process, but when other senior state officials meet with anyone involved in any way in any process, who is convicted of a crime, then it is not a problem for you, and this seems problematic simply because you want to harm the Croatian Democratic Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, as far as the INA Committee is concerned, it will certainly draw conclusions on the evidence. For me, as Prime Minister, it certainly remains a key issue, or key finding that the key to governance and ownership rights was in government decisions in 2003, and you know it. And as for the government's decisions afterwards, anyone who proposes, so was the government led by Mr. Racan, so is now, the government member who proposes a certain point, of course, the most important one. He suggests, and the government with full confidence and members of the government, when they get details of what is the agenda point, of course they vote yes or vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57810	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57811	I'm partially satisfied with the answer. First because you didn't tell me who was lying, that was the first question. And the second question, I'm happy that you've now admitted that you haven't read those documents, but you've just raised your hand. It's very simple in this case. Polancec evidently listened to what you advised him at a secret meeting, which is to tell the truth. And the truth is obvious and it says: Polancec did not make many obviously controversial decisions today, Polancec did not decide with Sanader in four eyes... You've all participated in the HDZ presidency and so have you, Mrs. Kosor, as vice president of Ivo Sanader. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] He even listed you in the order you were sitting at those sessions. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57812	... State's attorney or as a representative of USKOK. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57813	Polancec was telling the truth...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57814	It will investigate the commission, please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57815	And because he was telling the truth, you kicked him out of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57816	We're re-entering the debate, the prosecution, the evidence. It's not a courtroom council. Please. She's going to ask Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57817	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. Here I will refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Darka Milinovic. Mr. Minister, we know that many patients, in the treatment of many difficult patients, use very expensive medicines. Please tell me if the budget rebalancing of such expensive medicines will have a negative impact on the availability of these medicinal products to patients so severe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57818	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course that kind of misinformation goes from a few circles. First those who are uninformed, those who do not want to be informed and those who are informed and know that they are not, but would like to show all the successes of this government as a failure. This is also the fact that in the last two years we have increased the fund of expensive medicines, financial resources for financial medicines, for particularly expensive medicines from 200 to 450 million kuna. So 125%. That in the last 6 months we have introduced 15 new medicines for the treatment of malignant diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis and hepatitis B, etc. That in the last year, we have introduced 47 new medicines on the HZZO list that we have not in the last six years, and this is all about the greater availability of these medicines to those who need them, and the fact that we reduced the administration to the health system reform, you should have waited six months for approval. Not today, not a day. I would like to take advantage of it because I have received countless messages on the question of Parliament's Pupovac, so for the sake of the Croats in Gospić, I will take this opportunity towards the possible violation of the Rules of Procedure, that the Croats of the town of Gospić are just as proud of Nikola Tesla as the Serbs of the town of Gospić, Mr. Pupovac. And that's how it says that we named the face of the university the famous citizen of the town of Gospić Nikola Tesla and that the Associations of the Homeland War asked me to publicly at the opening of the memorial centre to condemn the terrorist act of destroying the monument of Nikola Tesla. Nikola Tesla and the monument will be given the right place in the town of Gospić, but not as a Serb, but as a great citizen of Smiljana, a great citizen of Gospić, a great citizen of Lika-Senj County, a great citizen of the world. In Lika-Senj County, we build such people monuments not because he is a Serb, not because he is a Croat but because he is a great citizen. And here's the answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57819	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, and for this second answer. But I especially thank you, especially I am pleased with your answer to my question. I believe that patients will also be extremely satisfied, and I especially thank you for a certain group of people with disabilities. These have been suffering from multiple sclerosis, as for them the one so expensive Interferon is included on the list of medicines which certainly made it easier for them to continue treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57820	Thank you very much. From the questions raised so far, we have witnessed that on several occasions some MPs and MPs have asked a few questions, not just one, and Article 180 says, the fourth paragraph: "The MP can ask one question. It must be brief and clearly formulated and generally such that it can be answered immediately and without preparation." Don't ask five questions to the firm one question. Please, nice. Then let's go over and the answerer has to answer five questions because he's been asked so many questions. So let's stick to it. I'll have to ask one question after you ask one question, if you keep asking the question then stop. Please, we'll never finish. We've been over 11 since 40. Please! It's representative Nadica Jelash's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57821	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister, the question is for you. During the presentation of the economic recovery programme in April this year, you inspiredly stated that you rode that horse, that you held him tightly by the reins and that you knew him, that you could direct him in one right direction. Six months later, we see that the programme of economic recovery is a Trojan horse, hollow because the Croatian economy does not recover but is still in decline, continues to collapse on the scale of global competitiveness, and the most dramatic cumulative consequence of such a situation is that Croatian workers lose their jobs daily and remain without existence. When your boss Ivo Sanader made you his heir, there were 240,000 unemployed. Today there are 50,000 more. And this fall, unfortunately, we're afraid it will bring another explosion of unemployment. I ask you what other inconvenience this horse of yours hides and how many more Croatian workers will be out of a job?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57822	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57823	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Representative. I must say again, I'm very surprised how uninformed you are. If Mrs. Holly didn't have the basics, neither did you. So you're saying that I said what I said about the horse at the presentation of the economic recovery program. I'm not Madam Representative, no, I'm not. I said that on another occasion, and I'm sure Mr. Cain can explain it in Istria. In Istria at one completely different event, so here I am asking you that when you read the newspaper then you simply remember more carefully what is the fact. And the horse, of course, is quite figurative. So it wasn't a presentation, it wasn't at a presentation in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The economic recovery program is being implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I expect your support. We've done a series of measures through the program that are life-saving. So they're not on paper. They're life-saving. I'll mention some. I'll mention to you the fact that we're the first government to reduce non-taxable donations. So, we've reduced non-taxable donations. I see a surprise on your face, I see you're not informed about it. I will also send you Madam Representatives a review of everything we have done as I recently sent the President of the Republic of Croatia to Mr Josipovic, please read what measures we have taken. Of course, the measures that we have absolutely succeeded in achieving what is called curbing indifference in state-owned enterprises. I don't know, Madam Representative, do you know, for example? that HEP owed about a billion, 800 million last year, now owes nothing. I don't know if you know that this particular government has succeeded in its efforts to pay off the INA debt. I don't know if you know we've been here since July 1st, for example. We're starting a new blue diesel system, and we've got great results. It is certainly a budget savings, but also a fight against corruption, very strong. We have a series of measures, here's around the merger, and I see that at the secret meeting there are MPs Maras and Vinkovic and Bernardić, because Mr. MP has the indictment, and then I'm talking about the fact that I've been honored to meet at secret meetings, and it's been done, and I'm wondering if you're going to do something about it now, but this is just a crackdown. So a series of measures we've taken, I believe that's what makes you happy, for example, just in the card business system, that we've introduced order for blue diesel. You, now that we have to, I've said recently that we're not going back in time, but I also remind you of the fact that when HDZ took over the leadership of the state, there were 325 thousand unemployed. At one point, 400 thousand unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, and it was not about the global crisis, there was no global crisis and there was no global recession. As for the mention of Mr. Sanader, and the fact that in his time there were fewer unemployed, it's your right to celebrate the predecessor, it's of course your right as parliamentary advocates, but I'm talking about facts and about competitiveness. One of the topics mentioned in this competitiveness document is the fight against corruption, and we definitely have results, but we also have no changes to labour legislation, and it was you, it was the SDP who opposed and collected signatures for the referendum, which opposed the minimal amendment of the Labour Act, and this is exactly what they respect about the competitiveness that we do not change labour legislation. So, facts on the table, let's talk about how far you've come to fight corruption, to fight for economic recovery and to end negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57824	Thank you. Mrs. Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57825	Prime Minister, the situation is that he no longer suffers any justification or crisis, because the crisis is definitely ours. The fact is that every day you run out of work, there are dozens of workers left, that you've destroyed over 50,000 jobs and you haven't opened new jobs. You're only open to affairs. Prime Minister, there are hundreds of thousands of young people on the labour market in Croatia right now. Every fourth of them with a degree. What kind of future have you made for them?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57826	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57827	Well, I think that you should be the one to warn on Article 214 of our Prime Minister, because in Croatia, a man is innocent until the court finds him guilty, and at least we meet publicly in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57828	Please, let's keep asking questions. And please, we're 13 out of 40 so far. Let us be clear on questions and concise in answers. It's Mrs. Mirjana Feric-Vac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57829	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers and Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking Mrs. Prime Minister Kosor's question, and on this very day, the National Day of Combating Violence Against Women, which is a direct cause of my question, and the events that have followed in the last few months regarding this day. Violence against a woman who ended in a double murder and with one suicide recently in Benkovac apparently followed all allegations because the services in charge of the warning procedure had failed. When they sought the solidarity of women in vote of confidence in you personally in this House, I warned you that this type of solidarity was not important to you when it came to possible cases of prostitution of minors in the Youth Home in Osijek. Again, the media points to similar events against minor women, events that are violence. Mrs. Kosor, in all these cases, it is the functioning of the system's institutions. So I'm still asking you, what exactly are you doing to make a frequent flossule zero rate of violence in this case against women, regardless of what age, really effective and systematic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57830	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57831	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam representative, thank you anyway for this question. It is especially important that you place it on today, National Day against Violence Against Women. I must say that Croatia is among the few countries that, with an international day of fighting violence against women, also marks their national day, and here I remind you that it was my proposal back then as Ministers and Vice-Presidents of the Government. It's done a lot, it's done a lot, I agree with you, never enough, and in the case that you mention as you know the Ministry of the Interior has reacted very spotlessly and marked people who in their business didn't do this job to the end, the way they should have. What, on what, since you're asking me and insisting as Prime Minister that all institutions do their job, of course without... Which means welfare centers, but also the Ministry of the Interior, so the police and everyone else, the local community. [[You don't understand.]] We often forget the local community, where people often think it's someone else's problem, that it's only a state problem, and domestic violence, of course, is a problem for all of us. I certainly won't remind you because you ladies know very well that we have also brought programs, that we have brought, which I think is one of the most important documents and this is a protocol on the conduct of domestic violence, where it is very clearly established which institution at which point should do what. So separate the bully from the victim, and so on, given the fact that many women victims of violence have children, so also the school's conduct, the treatment of welfare centres etc. I agree on the issue that we are fighting violence against women we must really, if we have to be around something together, we have to deal with it, but that means suppressing violence at every level. Every unmeasured statement to any woman, especially in public political life, actually opens the way to violence, because she tolerates herself in society as allowed behavior, and then in the end very often women get hurt. I remind you that in this regard, the government has made decisions co-financed by NGOs or shelter for women victims of violence that just at the time I was the minister of the family in this case that we initiated a co-financing agreement on these largest shelters, states or the Ministry of Government certainly local communities. And that is what needs to be done, and I certainly call on all representatives in the Croatian Parliament first and foremost to join in this struggle of violence against women sincerely. We have had a campaign if you remember, the government has conducted this in the fight against violence against women and I will conclude that no one in Croatia can be a respected doctor, nor an honourable parliamentary representative, nor an honorable lawyer, nor anyone who at home beats his wife, it must be a fundamental message of that we must consistently adhere to the violent people of our ranks, so to speak, absolutely isolate, condemn and mark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57832	Thank you. Mrs Mirjana Feric Vac.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57833	Thank you very much, Madam President, for telling what is part of the story, but I have specifically asked you, of these small parts, you know well that there is discrimination between the Criminal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure, which is not sufficiently concrete, is not sufficiently precise and does not protect women and cannot be prosecuted by those who are violent against women. You know just as well when we had a campaign that was supposed to be called violence against women and families that we renamed it in this House as just fighting domestic violence, and that's not enough. So I'm really asking you, systematically, not by putting out the fire here and there, systematically from the first days of education to the later systematic solution to this issue. Thank you very much. But I'm asking you to get it in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57834	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable Representative Damir Caine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57835	Your Honor, Mr. President, I want to ask the question of the prime minister, and I will do the same when I see that almost most HDZ deputies and most ministers wear this "Stop Violence Against Women" badge on women. In which hour the MPs will discuss the Pension Insurance Act, the announcement of an amendment to the Law has led to the certainty of 1st. 6 or 7 or 20 thousand people asked today for early retirement. After this surgical establishment that the Law goes to another reading, which I welcome, I call on citizens to refrain from going to retirement insurance, not to file for early retirement because perhaps nothing will ultimately be of this Law. However, the essence of the law is seen in the fact that women will have to work for up to 65 years, i.e. those who are 40 years of employment and who are not 65 years old will be punished. For me, it's heartless. Clearly, Madam Prime Minister, we all know about the Constitutional Court's decision, so I even think that the Constitution in that section when we talk about women should change. But I'm asking a question which is your position for women to work, including over 40 years of work up to 65 years. A clear problem in this country is a banal one, only in the last year 90,000 jobs have collapsed, indifference has increased by 8 billion kuna, public debt by 6 billion kuna, I know that the pension system is falling apart, that we are in serious problems, but please answer me what is your position around this Law, and what do you think women do up to 65 years of life?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57836	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57837	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I'm sorry that you didn't ask such questions at a time when you were participating in power and when you made decisions that over the night 60 thousand women who used a three-year leave had to go to work, without any logistics, without any solution about where their children would be, who their children would be, and I'm sorry that you didn't stand up to while you were in power to literally half the maternity benefits and that, of course, many women had no perspective of what they would do tomorrow and whether they could buy diapers or milk to their children or not. My government, or the government in which I have, has participated a decision on the decommissioning of maternity benefits for women employed, we have equalised employees and unemployed, so for the first time both housewives have, Mr. Representative, maternity benefits, we have also done with craftsmen, we have returned that three-year leave that you have cut drastically, insolently as you are today, to me insolently and of course done a lot of things for the population policy to literally collapse. No, to return specifically to your question. The pension insurance bill is going to change, you said it wouldn't seem to be anything because we decided today that the law is going into a regular procedure, you were wrong. I see you were surprised that you had to rephrase the question that you asked me because you had it figured out that the law was going into emergency procedure, and now you've quickly redesigned it, which is, of course, good because you have to adapt. So, it's going to go into a regular procedure, it won't last too long, because, as the economy minister said, we have to change something. Mr. Representative can't change anything so that it can't change without changing anything at all. What you're asking the government to do over and over again, but you're actually asking the government to stand in place, although when it comes to pension insurance to go backwards. Of course that's not gonna happen. We can't anymore, we can't track the system where we have 1.29 employees making 1 pensioner. Mr. Representative, that's unsustainable in the long run. 20 billion are collected from contributions, and this year 16, 17 billion will have to be secured from the budget. Mirovina will be so that there will be no confusion, it will go as regularly as in spite of the pension crisis went so far, regularly we will also find funds to pay off the debt before the end of this year, so that war that is coming to us. It's not about the Copernicus turn, it's about the fact that I talked to the union representatives, that we in the government didn't just listen, but we also heard that we agreed on this, so we're going at a mild pace, but we need to make a decision about the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. And that's a fact, it's for the benefit of the system and it's for the benefit of these pensioners you're talking about. But you're looking on the one hand for pensions to grow, and on the other hand you're actually looking for the system to collapse completely and completely. And I remind you when you ask about women, you were in power when the government made a decision on equalising the age of retirement, and you forgot that, and we also made one Law on Gender Equality and another Law on Gender Equality and the Constitutional Court made decisions on that basis. The Constitutional Court may not mean anything to you, it is a second story and decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is a different story, of course, it is not good for someone who has been a representative in the Croatian Parliament for so long, but it is of course your business and your political choice. In the end, the model we propose has almost all European countries. Finally, when you ask about women and when you ask me, I'm willing to listen and maybe put the law on the trail of the proposal, on the trail of objections, and on the trail of fears and some modification of those provisions, but that we have to go with the law is a fact. We will continue to discuss this law first and foremost with representatives of the unions, but also with pensioners' associations. So, Mr. Representative, join us because the Pension Insurance Act is part of the Economic Recovery Programme, join us, join the Government and let the IDS give strong support to the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57838	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57839	First IDS gives support, I guess, because he thinks the pensioner-worker's relationship is 2.1 or 2.1, the worker-to-worker-to-retired. In Croatia, this ratio is 1:1.22. IDS has been in power for a year and a half. Our fault, okay. I accept it doesn't matter. However, we can also change the Constitution and restore the position of women where it was yesterday. Now that we're talking about what's heartless, you know what's heartless to me, Madam Prime Minister? The fact that from 1.7 when you took over government leadership in 2009 to 1.7.2010, this country lost 90,000 jobs. And out of those 90,000 jobs, 50 grand goes to women. So let's not impute ourselves, let's not talk about everything else. No bigger social question, I assure you of this pension issue. That someone's been working for 40 years and can't go on full pension without talking about women who are going to have to work until they're 65. We use this bill to "clean" the ballast... to capitalists and actually... /The speaker excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57840	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Susana Bilic Vardic will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57841	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Prime Ministers of the Republic of Croatia with members and members of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Mr. Minister, by asking for help from the institutions of the Croatian state, I was approached by my new citizen Mr. Rade Aleksic, director and owner of the majority stake in the Croatian Radio station Nova Gradiška, whose city of Nova Gradiška led by the mayor of the Social Democratic Party injured and illegally and illegally denied the right of ownership and the right to work. Namely, the ownership structure of this radio has 56% share of the majority owner, 25.20% has the town of Nova Gradiška and 21.8% of former employees. On 9 July of this year, the city of Novi Gradiška was encouraged by an assembly in which contrary to the provisions of the Law on Commercial Society's votes, regardless of the ownership stakes, the illegal decisions were issued by the majority owner and by part of the employees kicked out of the radio rooms. They're not allowed to work, they've replaced the editor-in-chief, they've changed the programming scheme and they're carrying out their activities on other people's equipment. But that is not enough because the Social Democrats in the town of Novi Gradiška do not respect the decisions of the judicial authorities and insist on this inadmissible state. I don't know, Ministers, what a contribution this is to the development of democracy and respect for the rule of law, but I am sure that this is another confirmation of the Social Democratic Party's undiscovered desire to control media space and at a local level where they don't choose funds. Since I know that the owner and director of Croatian Radio has become NOVA Gradiška addressed the institutions of the Croatian State, my question is Mr. Minister, is the Ministry familiar with this case and what has been done so far or will be done to ensure that the rules of law are respected and implemented on the Croatian Radio Radio Nova Gradiška?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57842	Thank you. Mr. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57843	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The distinguished representatives in your question come out that this is actually about a violation of property rights, a stake in a company. The right of ownership is a right which is particularly protected by our Constitution, and, of course, a whole series of laws is regulated to protect the rights of ownership and the Law on Ownership and Legal Relations and the Law on Commercial Society and a whole series of laws. I find it difficult to enter into this particular subject that you have stated in your question, but there is no doubt if someone is being abused by legal property or by some decision of the Chamber of Commerce, it has a whole series of legal instruments and legal remedies that can seek protection. In the event of an unlawful decision by the Chamber of Commerce before the competent Commercial Court, it is possible to initiate a procedure to establish such a decision in a void manner. If the property is also injured before the competent municipal court it is therefore possible to initiate proceedings for the protection against trespassing of the property, for the return of the property. There are temporary measures that can be achieved as soon as possible. So whoever I think is in violation of his right has a whole series of instruments that our legal system predicts. As far as a specific subject is concerned, I have to admit I'm not familiar with it. I will see if such a thing has come to the Ministry of Justice in the form of a play because we can only act as the Ministry of Justice according to the citizens' representations. It's the only form. The decisions are made by the courts, the courts are independent of us. I'll take a look at this question of yours in the end and I can treat it as a play, so we'll see what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57844	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57845	Thank you, Mr. Minister. With your answer, you convinced me how far the other side of the town of Nova Gradiška has broken the law. However, Mr. Minister, as a citizen and as a representative, I believe in the institutions of the Croatian State, and I advocate that their actions guarantee the right of the Constitution that we are all equal before the law and that the law for all equally applies. But I think that the case of the Croatian Radio, radio station Nova Gradiška, is another example of how the Social Democratic Authority is illegally acting illegally, holding that no one can even surprise me specifically because there is another parliamentary party that publicly says that it does not recognise the laws of the Croatian state, and that the Social Democrats with that party and in Novi Gradisca are in a coalition in power, so the longer it is obvious that they are becoming increasingly difficult to distinguish them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57846	Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic will ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57847	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers. I'm referring my question to Mr. Davorin Mlakar. Currently on the political scene, the opposition has been objecting to the government for alleged violations of labour rights related to the Labour Law, while at a local level where they have been acting in power for a year, taking away their basic labour rights, giving them notices of party resemblance. This is also the case in Trogir, where the government is acting in the SDP-HNS-HSU coalition. Therefore, I would like to point out to you what the Ministry of Administration has done following an inspection of the illegal decisions of SDP Mayor Damir Riga. In December 2009, he handed out the resignations of 11 employees, even to some who were sick, with the reason that there was a redundancy because of the difficult financial situation in which Trogir was located, in order to raise salaries from 12 to 50% and employ 22 new employees, mostly without work experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57848	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57849	Dear Representative, you said exactly that, at the end of 2009 and in early 2010, several representatives of officials and deputies who were employed in the administrative bodies of the City of Trogir were sent to the Ministry of Administration and therefore, on the basis of all these performances on 16 and 17 March 2010, we carried out administrative and inspection supervision in the administrative bodies of the City of Trogir, and we found that they were not responsible for the work of the administrative bodies and services of the Law on Officials and Landowners in local self-government because they violated the law in several ways. One of them was to reduce the number of employees and place them as unscheduled officials who otherwise had opportunities to deploy to existing jobs, to shorten the deadlines prescribed by the law to be available, to deny some part of the annual leave and that some solutions on the termination of work in those administrative services had been made by persons who were not authorised to bring such documents. On the basis of all of this, we have ordered the mayor to make those illegalities a set of corrections. Under the same law again, he was manifested by the ministry's objection. We insisted that these corrections be carried out because otherwise the finding remains, as was already said at the outset, that he violated several provisions of the Law on Officials and corporals in local and regional self-government. You know that his responsibility, given the Law on Direct Choice, is such that he can only answer for now according to the existing provisions in the elections, i.e. there is a mechanism for launching referendums that can be called off by the mayor. But since we don't have those powers, we didn't even write it, but we asked that these illegal actions of the ID and that the only thing that remains for employees who have lost their jobs in such an illegal manner, to initiate a regular procedure in front of courts to prove their right to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57850	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57851	I'm kind of happy with the answer, but it's obvious that it's a repeat scenario from 2000. It means that these workers will be in court for several years and that the courts will normally rule in favour of workers, but they will still be damaged personally, and the budget of both the Republic of Croatia and local self-government will also be damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57852	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57853	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Administration, Mr. Mlakar. The entire Croatian public is familiar with the financial affair of Šipan, which has been involved for three months with the Dubrovnik People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, which has held power in Dubrovnik for the last year. Namely, without a decision from the City Council of Dubrovnik, HNS ordered the payment of city money to the private company in co-ownership of the coalition partner and on the purchase of property on the island of Šipan. You know that the mayor of Dubrovnik told the public through the media, gave him a payment order, planted a coalition partner, and the whole case was taken over by the authorities, and the president of the Dubrovnik SDP and the president of the City Council of Dubrovnik in whose jurisdiction every financial transaction over a million kuna has shown great tenacity in protecting the illegal actions of mayors and has done nothing to stop the illegal work and conduct at the expense of the citizens of Dubrovnik. On the contrary, she tried to justify the illegal actions of the city administration made by SDPs and HNSs. Since the HDZ and HSS council member's club has made a request to the State Audit and the Ministry of Administration to monitor and audit the work of the city administration in Dubrovnik, and since we have not yet received my question from the Minister of Administration, what has been done so far to stop the illegal conduct and overstep of SDP and HNS members acting in power in Dubrovnik and whether measures have been taken to return illegally paid money to the city of Dubrovnik's budget and which sanctions are provided for except for the next elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57854	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57855	Dear MPs, unfortunately, unlike the previous issue for the town of Trogir, I cannot say that we were in inspection and administrative supervision in the city of Dubrovnik. But the Department of Administration is planning there just because of the requests we received to carry out inspection in a relatively short time. What is important to say for problems in the city of Dubrovnik is not only available to real estate, but they are also objecting to something similar to what we had in Trogir on employment, employment of people in administrative departments and services, and also to giving notice, i.e. to making people available. Therefore, because of these objections we receive from the city of Dubrovnik, we will carry out inspection and what we were in response to when we were asked about this offer we will warn again. The powers of every mayor that we can establish and need to determine are that he can dispose of properties owned by the city up to a million kuna. The amount shall be available, alienated or purchased by real estate without the consent of the representative body, or the City Council of Dubrovnik. If in a specific case in Šipan it was a property that was over this amount of one million kuna, the decision should have been taken by the representative body cannot be decided by the mayor on its own, and a detailed answer with everything we will determine in the decision-making process by both the mayors and the representative body of the city of Dubrovnik will be notified to you after the inspection procedure has been carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57856	Thank you. Mrs. Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57857	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Obviously, during the coming period you will have a lot of work to do in Dubrovnik, as it further concerns the possibility that the Sipad affair is not the only one, that in many other cases the right of the city council has been violated, and lately a mortgage has been placed on city land without the agreement of the city council. So we expect your speedy treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57858	Thank you. It's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57859	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the president of the Croatian government. Mrs. Kosor, some of the countries in our environment, for example, Montenegro, are growing unconstitutionally on the global competition scale. It is getting closer to Slovenia, which is the most successful of the former republics. Where is Croatia? Croatia is going on unconstitutional, but unfortunately towards the bottom. And this year we're even worse than Kazakhstan. Can you tell us Mrs Kosor, what place Croatia has taken this year on the competitiveness scale and how much it has fallen in the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57860	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57861	Thank you very much. Madam MPs, I cannot believe that you claim that Croatia is going unconstitutional towards the bottom and that you hold the end of the negotiations for entry into the European Union by going to the bottom. It's an interesting fact and an interesting finding that we're going to take very good care of. According to the government's position and the government's view and the ruling coalition, Croatia ends negotiations to join the European Union, which is certainly also in the context of the strength of the Croatian economy achieving a strategic and national goal and I would not call it a bottom skating. As far as the specific questions you've asked are concerned, you well know what are the key obstacles to what might be more to us and to go up faster and be a competitive country in this regard. This is a full implementation of the Programme of Economic Recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for which we received the support of the World Bank, the IMF, the Croatian National Bank, the Governor of Rohatinski, the advisory team of the economic president of the Republic of Croatia and all leading economists in Croatia. And what does that mean, implementation of the program? This means implementation consistent with all those points that we have indicated, such as the Labour Law. Because among the remarks why we are not more competitive is the inability to amend labour legislation. I just said that. You were the lady MPs who didn't allow you to change the law, these provisions regarding the extension of the contract. So it is you who are definitely resisting the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, you are the ones who oppose the implementation of the programme, which provides for, say, the minimum measure of saving the state budget, for example, the merger of certain agencies or offices. We are reminding you that only administratively, for example, combine two ergels and thus save up to 30% of the budget money. You don't give it. You took the streets of the city of Djakova citizens and misinformed them about what the government is doing, because you don't let the cost of the state be reduced for these two ergels. You don't let us save in the state budget. You are asking us to spend more, of course, and you did not want to explain to the citizens of Đakov and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that no one is leading the horses, nor the ergel and that the government has invested 20 million kunas there in the yachts and will invest more. You don't let the hospital get together and that's how we save our budget money. For you of the SDP, you have publicly said that and your fellow representative to save 20 million kunas in one case. Madam representative, 20 million kuna is huge money, money like a mountain. Every drop of budget money is money like a mountain. But you allow yourself to, as Mrs. Buterin said, that 148 million kuna in Rijeka is where you come from unintended spending. Please, let's get together and work for the economic recovery program. Madam MPs, well... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57862	Thank you. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57863	Mrs. Kosor, I'm sure you don't believe what you're saying yourself, let alone the Croatian public. Fortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not yet suffer from collective amnesia, as you seem to believe. You're talking about key obstacles. I think that the key obstacles are precisely that lately we've been reading about your work mostly from the black chronicle, from the state's attorney's report, USCOK and the police, and you're mostly not interested in what I asked you. You are not concerned about the fact that Croatia was 61st place in 2008, at 72nd, and this year we are worse than Kazakhstan, and from Montenegro. I think you've created the most severe crisis, which is the crisis of government. And finally, no wonder that you citizens of the Republic of Croatia in 80% of the cases... And that they don't think you're capable of running... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] young... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57864	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57865	Mr. President, unfortunately, I must conclude that Article 214 has been re-injured by the Prime Minister because it is completely inappropriate and incorrect to say that her work is read from black chronicles. The work of SDPs is read from black chronicles, and these were witnesses, from Daimler, from Rijeka, the Rijeka Markets, there, that is, but the work of President Kosor is certainly not read from black chronicles and it is really unnecessary for a parliamentary representative, in this case the parliamentary representative offends the Prime Minister in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57866	Thank you very much. By his conduct he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament. It's a political stance. It's an insult, that's humiliation, but it's a political stance, therefore, it's borderline whether something like this can be accepted or not. It's borderline, please talk nice about it, criticise that, insult no. Oh, please, it's nice that we want to, if we're going to measure every word here, and then force the chairman to take these or those measures. I think and say it all the time, insulting anyone not, but expressing a political stance yes. Please, nice. I think it's a political stance. I didn't deserve that applause. It'd be better if you were told something critical that you'd do the same. Please be nice, I call you to questions that won't offend anyone, but which can be politically qualified. Please, nice. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57867	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the esteemed finance minister, Mr. Ivan Shuker. According to regulations governing the issue and structure of government and ministries, state secretaries in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. in the ministries, correspond to the Government and ministers. By that, all State Secretarys in the Ministry of Finance are somehow subordinated to you. In the case of Mr. Mladen Barisic, who is not only the secretary of state in your ministry, but also the director of the customs administration, from what we now see as a procedure against Mrs. Jurak from... but from the testimony of a number of people involved, it is clear that since April 2007, Mr Barisic, who is no longer a treasurer of HDZ, but is still a state secretary and director of the customs administration in the government, has organised various meetings with the heads of state-owned companies, therefore the Republic of Croatia, who, according to some of the participants who have testified, is not my quote, but a quote of people who are the leaders of state-owned companies. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57868	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57869	I'm not judging anyone. I'm just asking the Minister of Finance. Mr. Shuker, did you know what your subordinate secretary of state was doing at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Barisic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57870	Vice President Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57871	Mr. Beus you, in your traditional style, who you have been caring for for for many long, long years you like to accuse, judge and judge. It's your political rhetoric. But very interesting that when it comes to you, and when asked such a question, then you had a very vulgar fall from the president of the city council the other day. So you're asking me a question here for something Mr. Barisic is not officially accused of. When Mr. Barisic is officially charged or when he is, if he is, then he will know everything. So here you are doing something that should be done by the judicial authorities of this country. I know that you have such habits, that you like to accuse people, that you like to frame people, and that you like to judge people. That you like to be a big Democrats in front of the Croatian public, but when it comes to hiring drug dealers legally convicted in Slovenia in a place where small children should be raised is something that is quite normal. Something that's perfectly normal. You can laugh as much as you want, as mayor you were in charge of that institution, and your wife was a member of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57872	As you can see, Mr. President, the Minister of Finance has not answered my question at all, because he doesn't know what to answer. It wasn't me who convicted Mr Barisic, it was your party. You're the one who removed him from the chief treasurer's post. Therefore, do not impute to me what you have done. Obviously, you can't answer yes or no because you're careful, because if you said you knew what he was doing, then you'd be his accomplice in that business, or an accomplice. If you said no, then you'd come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57873	Come on, please don't open an investigation here, debate. So what's this? It really can't be done like this in this House. Oh, please, as far as you're concerned, some party has replaced someone who's a cashier in the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57874	It's none of our business when it's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57875	So it will be settled by the state authorities, and you are neither an organ nor a BOOK, nor an investigative organ.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57876	Mr. President, you're neither a Blimey nor a court, allow me... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57877	Please don't have a nice one and don't act like a state attorney here, not even as a judge. Here you go, Mr. Hebrang. What did you need?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57878	Mr. President, on behalf of the Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of Article 214 which has been repeatedly injured here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57879	Thank you very much. I'm setting a 10 minute break. We'll continue at 12 and 25. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and deputies, I would like to say a few words to Mr. Hebrang's president before I speak to him. I have been trying all this time to warn before the start of parliamentary issues, but for several sessions, that we should try to behave correctly and that we should not be offended and that political attitude can be expressed. Here are the difficult qualifications, the talk was that half the government should go to jail, other qualifications were spoken here, and that we read about the government only in black chronicles and the like. That's a lot of insults. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I tried to tolerate this session and that everyone could ask and qualify their political question, not the issue of personal insults, especially to the Prime Minister and Ministers in the Government. I won't tolerate it anymore. I tried. You abuse mine to say one attempt to tolerate the completion of this representative's morning. I will intervene for every insult here. And that's why I didn't ask for applause or you should have given it to me, but I also want it if you're already applauding what's being applauded normally in the Parliament, then applaud what's going on with some other qualifications and some other concrete things that are actually going on to the other side of this assembly. Please don't put me in a position where I have to intervene so much, that I will react to any insult here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And now I give my word to the president of the HDZ Club of Representatives to Mr Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57881	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is the saddest day in the Parliament in 20 years. I had to break the tradition not to be asked on behalf of the club break while it was the current morning, because the current morning was imagined to be representatives asking questions to the government. The Rules of Procedure do not say that MPs insult the government, the Rules of Procedure do not say that the current morning representatives can go below the level of civil behaviour and the rule of law. And today you've done the following, quote Mrs. Holly, "We need to close half the government." Mrs. Holly, you didn't fall for media pamphlets, you who have to follow the truth, so you're not really convinced of what you said? If you are convinced, then the situation is even more tragic. Because then this assembly was turned into a courtroom, you brought this assembly back 20 years, at a time when the verdict was pronounced after this speaker, when fate was destroyed, when every freedom and every social normal behavior was abolished. If you're sure of that today you've brought this House back 20 years. I hope you didn't and that it went off, uncontrollably. Mr. Maras, you're pressuring the judiciary. Is that your role and your intention or your lack of knowledge of facts? With your speech today, you criticized UskoK, criticised the State's Attorney's Office because they didn't close what they needed. So will political pressure in the rule of law affect today those who may be doing the most responsible work in their careers. I quote further, Mrs. Romana Jerkovic, "About your work...", says the prime minister and the government "I read in black chronicles". Oh, come on! I think this paper is read in red chronicles today, because this government headed by Prime Minister Kosor has made a major step in the rule of law, because at the beginning of her term she said, "There are no untouchables", she opened the door to both USKOK and the State's Attorney's office, and you are closing those doors with lies and insinuations and insults. Is it your intention to insult you or is it your intention to stop what the government started and what Croatian society needs? And that's the fight against crime and corruption. You turn it like a boomerang, you want now to that government that opened the door to corruption, which doesn't even protect its party members if you did, you want to close that door now. But why? Because you're afraid he'll catch you, too. They'll get everyone no matter which party they belong to and don't stop it. With these insults, you stop with these slanders and lies the most important project, not because of Europe, but because of Croatia. And so please leave the door open that Prime Minister Kosor's actions and her governments have done and return Croatia to that civilization level that was worth speaking in this assembly when we spoke under the aliens and when we spoke in the non-democratic system. Even then, such insults are not as you can see from the annals written over the years. And that's why I'm asking you to go back to the rest of the debate at civilization levels within the framework of the rule of law. And, Mr. President, please, apply Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure which states that a representative is given a warning, if I quote, "By his conduct, he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the House," and the general rules in this House are the courtesy, respect for the other, and respect for the suspects until he is charged. Thank you. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57882	Thank you very much. We can keep going. ... It wasn't you who asked for a break, it was Mr. Andri Hebrang. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I can't not give you a word as president of the club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57883	Mr. President, we asked for a break, but you were the moment you gave away the HDZ club. Therefore, you can then give us a chance to speak on behalf of the club or to take a five-minute break to consult on the subject or we'll talk about it at the moment. Okay. Thank you. So, then consider this request for a break invalid. I am sad to hear that it is the saddest day in the history of the Croatian Parliament, because this is certainly not the saddest day in the history of the Croatian Parliament. It was a lot sadder days here in '90, '91. And I know that you know it and that you believe it and that you think it. It's been a rough day, and this is just one day in the work of the Parliament and one current morning that you used to give us a political speech here, a Filipino at the expense of opposition and lauda in favor of the government. That's what you did. Now let us react to that as calmly as possible. So, my colleague Holly said, I'm going to quote, "I don't know how you don't know, in order to close Chapter 23, it's going to be necessary to close half of your government before that." That's what she said, point, end of quote. You quoted differently. Now, I can look back on that. It's rough, but it's also in democracy and free states playing words. Of course it's clear to everyone, including the chairman, and to every politician, and to every journalist that no one here has ever put the government in jail or I think half of the government is a place in prison or anyone from the government. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is a reaction to a notorious fact that the former Deputy Prime Minister and member of HDZ's most senior leadership were in prison and that several serious criminal charges were filed against him. He was in custody, thank you for correcting me, and it's a threat to be in prison. If that offends you here, I can say on behalf of the party that we've gone a little too far. All the other gentlemen and what the other MPs said and what your colleagues and colleagues quoted were normal political discourses. And I'm also asking you not to insinuate, so you don't charge yourself with what you're doing all the time. I'll give you a few examples, you used this all the time against the members of the SDP, against the mayors of the SDP against whom police criminal charges were filed so that they would be rejected later, against the head of small municipalities for some kind of trade in state land, that at the end of the same field, a private investment took place on the same island that the prime minister discussed in Moscow with leading Russian politicians. And a criminal application that has been politicized against the same small chief of staff on a small Croatian island for years has been rejected. You see how it hurts, you see how it's wrong. So if you don't see a layer in your eye, you're not looking for a needle in someone else's eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57884	We have a correction, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57885	Your Honor, you said it was sad in the '90s. and '91. in this House. It was proud and honorable to sit in the '90s. and '91. in this House, but it is sad to hear such insults and slanders in this House after 20 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57886	Correction, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57887	So I must correct my colleague Milanovic, he incorrectly said here in front of the Croatian public that the indictment for the head of the municipality, or criminal charges, was rejected. No, it was not even raised for a reason because there was no damage for the Croatian state because the Croatian state registered on land sold by the municipality's chief. So it's state land today and it's a fact. And your chief tried to sell the country even though the State's Attorney's Office warned him. And just because there was no damage to the Republic of Croatia because the state of Croatia registered to the country, no criminal charges were immediately filed. Only for that reason. Otherwise, if the damage had occurred to the Croatian state, of course a criminal application would have been filed because it is subject to the Penal Code. So it's true and it's facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57888	Thank you. Which one of you asked for something? ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Koračević, please, is that on behalf of... please? Here you go. ... [[Intruder: In the name of the club I was also looking for.]] Here you go, Mr. Koračević. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57889	My colleagues and colleagues. Things are perfectly clear here, they've been clear since the morning, they're clear from the first question, and it was clear in which direction today's active clock is going, and it's no wonder that this situation has occurred. It's not weird at all. Let's remember the questions, starting with the first, the second, the third and the second. And I fully agree and support President-in-Office when he says that he should not be offended, and in order to express his political position, however, it is obvious that this border is quite subjective and apparently that at some point it burns, it hurts. And the consequence of this break we had was the question of our colleague Beus from the Croatian People's Party club - Croatian Party of Retired Minister Shuker, and the issue was very specific and clear, whether as a responsible person at the head of the ministry knows what his secretary of state is doing. With an argument which was and which was no charge whatsoever, but a mention of a witness's statement in the trial. And I think the testimony of witnesses who were transferred to the media that we can mention them, that it's absolutely not about the judiciary. In response, the minister came up with what, imputation, mentioning someone who was convicted in Slovenia as a drug dealer, that he was employed somewhere that doesn't correspond to the fact, which doesn't match the truth. So when we talk about correctness... When we talk, Minister, let me finish, I know it's not very simple, but I'm asking you to let me do it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, when we talk about correctness, when we talk about mutual respect, when we want to specify that line between insult and political attitude, then I think those rules apply to both sides. For both sides. Especially, I repeat, for representatives of the government because representatives of the government are elected by the Croatian Parliament. Representatives in the Croatian Parliament elect representatives of the government. .../Speakers speak out loud, you don't understand. I want to, I don't think there's any need to go into verbal outwitting right now, but we need to remember the answers that Agent Beus got to his question. I fully support the position of the President of the Parliament and we at the Croatian People's Party club fully support the position, one of the views expressed and the president of the Croatian Democratic Community club when he mentioned civilizational behaviour and insult. But we want to underline the need for the rules to apply to each other and that we need to show that level of responsibility, we need to give, and especially in the answers, especially to avoid the answers we heard from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Shucker. I think it's for condemning, and I think we at the Croatian People's Party club, the Retired Party think it's something to talk about in public, and even give a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57890	I'm asking that no investigation be carried out here, no investigation because we're not qualified for it. Therefore, when a question is asked under Article 180, a core and clear question should be asked, not qualified and be ruled as if we were a BUSCOK or a State Attorney's Office or a Court of Justice. That's what I've been saying since I've been sitting here in this place. Please, that's a nice thing to do. And don't disqualify and qualify and insult anyone. I didn't say don't insult this guy or that guy. I said don't insult anyone. Mr. Maras, you've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57891	Thank you very much. I believe you have deliberately failed to allow me to correct Mr. Hebrang's incorrect allegations, so I urge you to give me the opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57892	Not on purpose, because I didn't. I asked if there was anyone there, someone then you kept quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57893	No, I wasn't the one who kept quiet. I see your colleague, Bukarica, has signaled to you that I answered. But good. Mr. Hebrang incorrectly said that in my question I was pressing the judiciary, the DORH, the BOOK, etc. I didn't say a word about the DORH or the judiciary in my degree. I mentioned what is clear to everyone in Croatia. Either Polancec or Minister Schuker are not telling the truth, and that was my question to Mrs Kosor, and then I said it wasn't true that Polancec was working alone but was deciding at the HDZ presidency session. And that was all. There wasn't any pressure, there was just naked facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57894	Please! You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now you're correcting the incorrect, as an incorrect allegation. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you once again, I call on everyone to refrain from insulting and refraining and acting here in investigative actions and qualifications, if you want us as the Croatian Parliament to work normally as the most representative and legislative body. Please! We got 40 questions, we got to 20. And it's time for Mrs. Nevenka Marinovic to ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57895	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here's my question. I'll ask the Prime Ministers. President-in-Office, we know that the Economic Recovery Programme respects the roof strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia and has proposed that, by identifying the forces and taking advantage of the opportunities to return the economy to the path of sustainable development, many measures and activities were short-term, whether long-term. As I come from the County of Zadar which records a good result in tourism for the first eight months of this year, it achieves 2% more in arrivals and even 10% more in nights than last year with an increase in domestic guests by 1%, and tourism will agree with a significant segment of the economy. I am interested in the esteemed presidents of the Croatian Government how pleased you are in general with the implementation of economic recovery measures and how much the record tourist season contributes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57896	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57897	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's the thing. I've already talked a lot about implementing the Economic Recovery Programme today. I'm going to say just enough now that the government is determined to implement this programme until the end. As you know, there are some short-term measures in the program. They should be spent by the end of this year, but there are medium- and long-term ones. And if we have the support of Parliament, of course, since it means amending many laws. For example, the Pension Insurance Act will then be a success in implementing this programme. And I will repeat what I have also indicated today that all relevant institutions from the World Bank, the IMF to the Croatian People's Bank, are saying that, of course, it will be crucial if the Government implements the programme. If there are still ruthless resistances from all sides, then perhaps a part of it may not be implemented. But as far as the government is concerned, we are determined to say to the end to implement this programme and without the rest, and it certainly slowly but certainly yields results. I will mention here a woodworking industry where we have recorded results with regard to our programmes A, B and C to support the economy, or when I talk about Programme C to support companies that are particularly threatened, and their problems do not result from the crisis itself. As far as tourism is concerned, you know that I often talk about how tourism really is a particularly important economic branch, we still have a lot of space to connect of course and agriculture, organic production with the tourist offer. But as for this year's results, I think we can be happy with these first indicators for the first eight months. It means 6% more overnight, and 3% more arrivals. We talked about it a lot, and so did the Minister of Tourism. We've visited a lot of destinations together. I must say, we did respond in time. We also received this commendation of the necessary and important measures from the World Tourism Organisation’s secretary recently in Dubrovnik. For example, we are here from government decisions that have been made and decisions to increase the means of promotion. This year it was 30 million kuna, we strengthened online promotion, but we also made new decisions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on facilitating the visa regime. And that certainly gave the results. When we talk about neighbours, I will also mention the decision, that is, the determination of the government, which the ruling majority there has certainly supported in the Parliament, about making a decision on the arbitration agreement with Slovenia. I'm putting it in the context of tourism and the tourist season. Last year, the decision suggested that we agreed to cause a literal explosion of the arrival of Slovenian tourists, certainly this year, since we signed and ratified the arbitration agreement. So political decisions also bring real results in the tourist season at this level. Here's the latest data from.../I don't understand./... So 25% higher means, or 25% higher impact, which I think is a good result. Finally, about what was from this financial point of view, the budgetary position was this year's season, we will know after the Croatian National Bank's report, at the end of the season. I would like to announce to you, Madam MPs, that we will be taking steps very quickly for the next tourist season. All Adriatic counties had growth, here is Split-Dalmatia with 13%, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska with 11, Zadar from which you come 10%, Sibenik-Kninska 10%, therefore significant results from last year. And since we are about to take new measures, we believe that the next season, but for which we are preparing for, will be good, but I note that this year's season has not ended, that is where I really want to show my respect and gratitude to everyone who works in tourism, so indeed everyone, from maids, cooks, chefs, but also the administration of major tourist complexes, hotels, etc., on their contribution, and I mention that the season is not yet over, that once again everyone is up to the end, so that the results for 2010 will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57898	Thank you. Mrs. Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57899	Thank you. I'm happy with your answer. And here in Zadar County, Slovenians record the largest number, our most numerous guests, I confirm what you said. Because here you are respected presidents of the Croatian Government, and as chairman of the Committee for the Preparation of the Tourist Season, to learn that the good results in tourism are the result of the work of many in tourism, and those who worked on the promotion of tourism products, marketing infrastructure, communication tactics, sales, promotions, joint advertising, fairs, presentations, both in 2009 and 2010, subsidies, air transport and many, many people working in this sector. And the results, both in tourism and in the economy as a whole, confirm that for the successful transformation of the economy, there is a need for significant changes in the behaviour of all entities, both the state, the public, the private sector and every individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57900	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic will ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57901	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Ivan Antwak, the former first man of HEP, spoke. HeP, according to Ivo Sanader's orders, had to give higher amounts of cash to HDZ teller Mladen Barisic for your party's needs. Antavak said he had met with Barisic several times in his office, but also in HDZ premises, and Barisic was coming to HEP for money. Thus, it turns out that this customs emperor has customs duties on more state-owned companies in favour of HDZ than he has customs duties on goods for the benefit of the state budget. My question is very simple, which is why Madam Prime Minister, this same Barisic is still the head of the customs administration?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57902	Please before Madam President, before you answer. You're investigating Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Yes, that's where you say what someone said, so it's Parliament. You ask a question and it's over, not what anyone said, what was who, etc. So please be nice, so let's understand that this isn't an investigative jury, but that it's a Parliament and ask a nice question to which you're going to get an answer. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57903	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam representative, what you've mentioned in your question is simply... about what the newspapers write and what the media say. [[You don't understand.]] Why do I say that? Because I think that, as once upon a time, the Minister of Justice should know that all together we must ensure independence and full freedom in the investigative bodies. So, independence, or full support that the police are doing their job, that the DORH is doing its job, that the BOOK is doing its job, and that because someone said somewhere, what someone wrote, we can't make decisions, let alone judge in individual cases, let alone decide here on human fates. Therefore, Madam MPs, I urge you to give support to the State's Attorney's Office, to give support to this which you are doing is absolutely invisible, and to give support to all of us in the Government of the Republic of Croatia who want everything on the table to be open so far to investigate and that I certainly want you to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which clearly says everyone is innocent, and as once upon a time, the Minister of Justice should know that he is innocent until his judicial verdict determines it. And in order for a judicial verdict in any individual case, you must stop pressing that same judiciary and certainly press any decision, any judge and any investigative body in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, if we all take the same position, if we are all equally determined in the fight against corruption and equally determined in the fight for the rule of law we will have results, because to me it is unimaginable what Mr Milanovic just said, that the conclusion of his representative, Holly, is that half of the government's play of words should be closed. Mr. Representative, it is not a word game, it is a qualification and it is absolutely unacceptable in democratic states such as the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57904	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57905	You, Madam President, you know everything about everything, and that's how you talk to me about a long time ago, you know all about it when the country was a burning ball, you just don't know anything about what's going on during your term. You're also saying that someone here is pressing the judiciary... who leaked to the public. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] You often refer to these newspaper articles, and here you now deny others that they do the same, even when they come from the HDZ itself. You're saying you shouldn't judge a man, so we don't judge a man, even though you ruled Polancec before the court, but now it's clear why you don't replace Mladen Barisic because you're afraid he won't talk, because you're afraid he has an election mandate, and that's true for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57906	Please, let the system do every job. The system, not qualify in advance and judge in advance. It's like it's all been proven and you need to go to jail. Please, let's not do this, let the Parliament do its job, not that every qualified and every judge, please, let's stop this once, we'll never finish this session. Mr. Anton Mance will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57907	Your Honor, Mr. President, a respected prime minister with ministers and associates. I would ask one question since it has already been mentioned here for the Mayor of Rijeka that he does not respect what the Audition writes, what he has in his findings, I would also ask one of these numerous affairs that has been mentioned lately, and I am referring to the mayor himself, i.e. I am asking Mr. Minister of Justice Bosnjakovic. What happens with the investigation against the mayor of Rijeka Voika Obersnel raised in connection with the Rijeka Market owned by his party colleague and friend who damaged the city budget and thus directly citizens of Rijeka for 80 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57908	Thank you. Minister Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57909	Mr. President, Your Honor. Indeed, I could only in continuity what the Prime Minister said and in the end what you said, let the state authorities handle the proceedings and learn all the relevant facts, because it's too early to conclude that someone has guessed that someone is this. The investigation is under way, it's a very complex subject, as you know, the State's Attorney's Office has even made certain staff changes in the State's Attorney's Office in Rijeka in order to actually achieve a more quality procedure. It does have its course and the public will be informed when there are enough relevant facts to present themselves to the public and that, possibly, if the facts show that it has elements and initiates procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57910	Mr. Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57911	Well, since the mayor of Rijeka is the president of the Croatian Association of Cities, the other day he made a statement to the New List and mentioned that this is the Ministry and the Government damages local self-government, I think I can comment that every mayor is very important in budgeting, that he collects on his income side the money that is possible, that he does not give profitable companies such as this with 23 employees and 5 million profits, so he will be able to solve his problems more easily. It will not be Minister Schuker's fault, but the budget will be more quality and not be given what is profitable to someone so that they can make a profit and go to the harm of the city of Rijeka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57912	It's Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57913	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Minister. I'm giving my question to Mr. Poppie. It is generally known that in this economic crisis, exporters, the export industry, in particular the textile industry, are particularly affected, given that the decline in demand in the US, the British market and other markets, and that they are facing competition of products from the Far East, the government has made possible every year through various programmes of subsidisation and non-refundable incentives for textiles and goats, so I am interested as the Mayor of Varazdin, the end, not only in Varazdin, but also in the entire north-west of Croatia, which is the most exporting and in which most textile industrial entities are located, I wonder whether the government thinks and how these incentives could go, in which way and whether the textile and leather industries can hope, this year, too, that the Government will in some way, by subsidising and incentives, all these negative trends that occur for the textile export industry of the leather industry, however, are a little less likely.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57914	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57915	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So this year, however difficult it is, respecting the latest budget rebalancing, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and the Croatian government will grant support to the textile industry. The tender under the approved support programme approved by the Competition Agency is launched this week and support will be granted for the subsidisation of permanent craft and for the subsidisation of initial investments. So, companies that have been participating in support so far, let us remind that in 2008, over 270 million kunas of grants and subsidies injected into the textile and leather industry. So, both this year and the special programme for the textile leather industry and also for small and medium-sized enterprises for which these companies can also appear because most of them enter the category of small and medium-sized ones for which they already have a good share of paid aid of 320 million kuna. Fortunately, there are bright and good examples right in the textile industry and right in your area, where, for example, one company is this year a textile producer, exports, its exports are growing and this year it will carry out total goods over 100m euros. So, in this crisis and in these difficulties, there is a way these companies can successfully cope with the world market. And here I repeat, this year and the competition is scheduled to be awarded grant support and subsidies to the textile and leather industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57916	Thank you. Mr. Chehok, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57917	I'm glad to hear that, I'd like to hear that if it's possible, given that it's the end of the 9th month that we can still find the funds in the budget this year and pay off those funds this year. It is certain that even under these circumstances, the textile industry is somehow breathing. I can commend the Minister of the Interior, since our textile industry here dresses the MUP that it is good, that it shows that the textile industry in Croatia can meet the needs of the MUP and other entities especially state-owned companies. But it would be good, I'm afraid we won't be able to make it by the end of the year. To your soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57918	Thank you. Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57919	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's my question to Minister Drazen Bosnavkovic. In fact, a good part of the MPs remembers that it is February 10th, 2006. The Croatian Parliament sent a report to the State's Attorney's Office, so I didn't read some report in the paper, the Research Commission on the fact-finding of concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned and partly owned by state officials. So, the commission unequivocally found out, and the Parliament confirmed that then Minister Radimir Cacic had certainly taken advantage of his companies, that they had found counterfeit contracts, so double contracts of different content, that there were 7 annexes in certain contracts, clearly in favour of then Minister Cacic, that a whole series of poles were awarded, such as POS apartments in Spain, without construction permits and a whole series of almost 100 contracts of irregularities. I'm interested, given that the State's Attorney's Office is responding to anonymous reports, and quite quickly, has anything been done about this case? At the end of the line, let the State's Attorney's office answer that we're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57920	Thank you. Mr. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57921	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very short. I must admit that I really don't understand that the State's Attorney's Office didn't respond to the Bureau's investigation committee that was set up. I'll determine those facts, and if the answer hasn't been answered, I'll make sure you get the answer. Because if there are such doubts as you have said, it was undoubtedly the state body's duty to act and examine each of these facts whether there are grounds to initiate any procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57922	Thank you. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57923	... If these weren't... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We did all of what I said documented and neatly listed and sent to the State's Attorney's Office nearly five years ago. There were some indications, one of the former MPs often went to the State's Attorney's Office and asked around. So it was said that the man who led it to sickness, that it would be etc. So I'm really interested here if you're with Mr. Bajic, ask if it'll be your turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57924	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57925	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask my question to Mr. Vukelic. We were able to read in the media that some of our colleagues and colleagues from the SDP on taxpayers' cost were taking vacations in Brijuni, some of them almost 2 months. In addition to the cost of overnight stay at the hotel was 7 kuna, the cost of the stay tax it is required to pay, we could read that military speedboats were driving them for a bath on the beach of Vangica. As the media mentioned, it was very difficult for me to believe that this was true for my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP. However, if the information is correct, do you have the information that your colleagues and colleagues used for the use of military speedboats, did your colleagues use those services, who granted them the use of these services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57926	Mr. Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57927	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. So, dear Parliamentarian, a brief answer to your question may have been that some were driving at the expense of the budget, at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and on the beaches. Namely, as the information came out in the media, I also asked the Chief of Staff for a check and it was found indeed that there was a ride on the island of Wang, a speedboat for the Ulisys Theatre, and it speaks of one irresponsibleness to the president of the state of Mr. Josipovic who gave consent to the Ministry of Armed Forces and the Croatian Army, but also to the state, according to the government, to all those who are today struggling to make this recession, this economic crisis prevails as soon as possible while some obviously use the crisis for other purposes. Now why did I say all this, I'm going to do it in a slightly wider explanation and argue. Namely, at the recommendations and the proposal and with the agreement of the President of the State, the Ministry of Defence concluded a contract with Ulisys Theatre on the use of our ships of the Croatian Navy and speedboats for the purposes of transporting actors, viewers and all of the equipment needed to maintain performances in Mali Brijuni. This contract is practically consummated and we're here in three months this year, so it's about 6th, 7th and 8th months and we're sending invoices that are about 334 thousand kuna. So exactly the routes and routes are defined where they go and what the ships of the Croatian Navy are driving. However, this ride you mentioned as others is out of those routes, off the contract. And that's why when I said this was going to cost that ride to Wanga and some of the others that we're waiting for, and they were in late nights towards Pula or somewhere else, they weren't covered by this contract. So that's not the route we've agreed on and that we're invoiced at Ullisys Theatre. It should also be said that with these two boats, Barža and Krasnica we are transporting viewers and actors and that in this contract we have also mentioned for special extraordinary cases the possibility of riding a speedboat from the Honorary Protective Battle which is in the area, but only for the relation of Great Brijun - Mali Brijun - Great Brijun. So nowhere outside of that relationship could a speedboat drive, unless the theater asked for it, it got consent, obviously from those who didn't know what it was or what it was about and what it was and what it was about, and there were these drivings that we had to say we don't have a passenger list, because the request went from the Ulisys Theatre. Ulisys Theatre has its guests, it knows more about it, so everything that is recorded in hotels and in what you mentioned about the summers of the Ulysses theatre. It is mentioned that the names and some of the parliamentary representatives you spoke of. What I'm also trying to say is that after an investigation has been carried out that I will insist, it is the responsibility of those who have therefore committed a violation. But it's certainly one thing, that it's totally unacceptable for me personally, and I believe for all of us together, that such a service is spoken out loud. He continues to provide Ulysses theatre for many reasons. One of them may also be this use and abuse of the Croatian Navy vehicle or... The second thing's certain is that it's questionable... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57928	Finish it, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57929	And the responsibility of the Croatian Army when it drives, transports passengers because often it should be known, passengers who are very well-willed are driven. And God forbid anything should happen to anyone in that artistic mood, it would be the responsibility of the Croatian Army. And I will finally say my personal opinion, that it is humiliating for the Croatian Army to perform a service of transportation to anyone for swimming or theatre performances when there are private owners in Croatia who have their boats and can do that service. So we'll make one rule...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57930	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57931	Which will define exactly what services we can provide and it certainly will not be the services that can be obtained on the market on a regular basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57932	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57933	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since you didn't say the names, I'm going to say those names that were mentioned in the media, which went to the beach on Vangica and slept for 7 kunas in hotels. The names of counterpart Opačić and colleagues, Nenada Stazic, were mentioned. If that's true...... If that's true, it's really hard for me to figure out, I come from artistic circles, so I find it hard to figure out what they owe Croatian culture to enjoy the beauty of Brijuni and the beauty of the beach in Vangica. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57934	Thank you. It'll be investigated by someone else, we don't have to mention it, right? It'll be investigated by someone else. Mr. Arsen Bauk will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57935	Thank you, Mr. President. So my question is Mrs. Kosor. Dear Madam Prime Minister, more than 700 thousand citizens asked for a referendum with their signature. After the arrival of this material, many government members and civil servants discovered their hidden talents. Mr. Mlakar became a reserve graphologist so he watched the manuscripts, Mr. Drinker became a psychologist and watched why people signed saying they didn't know what they were signing. Unknown detectives watched where people signed and where the papers came from, unknown were accountants who watched that the books were not bound. Unknown were the numerologists who watched why the pages were not numbered, and we received a linguistic interpretation of the Constitution's provision that the Croatian Parliament would call a referendum, so that on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, they dragged themselves to unsuspecting borders, to get a little bit more out of the way. Some have also set you up personally because they have published information on the government's pages on signatories of these papers with their JMBG, although you have always claimed, for example, that the Defence Registry cannot be published. In order for a referendum to be called, it is also necessary to have a normal list of voters. All this hidden creativity of government members has come out where it suits you not to do something, and that's a referendum. And as for the Law of Residence that would make a fair list of voters, we haven't received it in another reading after eight months. My question is, Madam Prime Minister, when Croatia will have a new list of voters, normal and true, and when you will submit amendments to the Law on residence and residence of citizens in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57936	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57937	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to start by saying that Minister Mlakar is the minister of the administration and we wanted to inform you about it, it's not the backup graphologist that you wanted to impute, how you imputed, and in fact you wanted to insult him, nor is Minister Poppie a sociologist or what you said. No, it's the economy minister, and all government ministers are acting on their duties, running their own resources. That check we did meant specifically in two ministries, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Administration, the government was required to check. Based on which, you as an agent would also have to know, I believe you know but you deliberately skipped it. Based on this Parliament's decision. So we got the assignment to check the signatures, we did it, and we did our job. Of course we have, and I don't believe that you think that the government has to keep quiet when it comes to irregularities, that the government has to put irregularities under the carpet. Don't push us into this. No, we also told the truth in this case and only the truth, and it said that we are on lists or lists of people or persons who are no longer living, which means dead, those who have no business ability and many other irregularities. However, we also found facts and only found that as signing organizers they were, according to the referendum law, because this law requires, they were unions or union centres, but that we also found in those lists that the signatures were collected by some parties, the Labour Party, as well as the Social Democratic Party. And these are the facts that we've only observed. So, I don't know and I think I'm well-informed, the SDP was never listed as an organizer for collecting signatures, but you collected them. Therefore, we only determined what was required of us, we sent it to the Croatian Parliament. The Committee responsible for further action, the Committee on the Constitution has made the decision it has made and we will, of course, respect the decision of the Croatian Parliament. I remind you of another small detail about the referendum, but very important because I repeat the referendum once again, the government has absolutely nothing against the referendum, let alone that the referendum is afraid. But the little detail you skipped is also: a referendum cannot be organised and cannot be implemented if there is no money, if there is no kuna. That's why the government proposed 170 million in rebalancing, you were against it. So if you put a sign of equality, then we could make a conclusion on who was in favour of the referendum and who was against it. Demagogy is, you know, you're saying, we didn't vote for rebalancing, we didn't vote for 170 million kuna for a referendum, but we're in favour of a referendum. We are in favour of a referendum if, of course, Parliament decides, that is, if we respect all decisions and Parliament and if, of course, Parliament makes a decision to make some decisions in the Constitutional Court, because we believe that the Constitutional Court should be respected, that decisions of the Constitutional Court should be implemented as well as decisions of other courts. As for the Government that corresponds to Parliament, the special decision taken by the Croatian Parliament will be so in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57938	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57939	Mr. Vice President, I am not satisfied with the prime minister's answer because she has not answered my question about the residence law and therefore I ask the written answer to that question. As for what you said, the first budget reserve from it can be paid for the referendum's costs, so don't teach us how to vote for rebalancing. Your defence of members of the government is understandable, but what the constitutional-legal experts think about their work, starting with Mr. Smedell, is enough, it's already said. So, I think you're afraid of the referendum, and as far as the voters list is concerned, if you don't refer to the procedure of the law that will make a normal list of voters, we'll think you want to fake the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57940	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57941	It's a question for Mrs. Prime Minister. In Croatia lives an entire city the size of Rijeka, unemployed young people up to 34 years old. There's 33,000 of them. They've been educated, they've acquired knowledge, they've been motivated, they want to work, but in a country where there are circumstances, there's nothing you can do for them. What is worse is their number in this year's term of office, Madam Prime Minister, has doubled. Instead of proposing measures how and how to help these people secure their first job, you have sent the Pension Insurance Act, which includes rewarding those who are not up to 65 years of age. So people are asked or stimulated to work deep age, but that's why 50-year-olds are retired. Due to the announcement of an increased duration of people's early retirement cuts, and especially young women my age or your age are still being saved for being saved, so they're running away in mass. In the first six months of this year, 30720 pensioners or 11% more went into retirement than last year in the same period. The pension stampede will continue quite safely in the second part of the year. So young people are prevented from entering the world of work. The best age is forced to get out of it, and those over 65 are stimulated to stay. The question is, how do you intend to resolve this one by my court of law and absurd politics? What will we answer to young people?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57942	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57943	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative. First of all, thank you for the compliment that we are these young years. Thank you very much, young women and men our age. Thank you. So, there are a few questions that you asked me, so I apologize for probably not being able to answer 'cause time doesn't allow. As for young people and employment, here are the latest figures saying that in this year, so when it comes to really young people, there are almost a thousand more employed than in the same period last year, which some here is good data but of course it needs to be put into the general context. As for the incentive to hire young people's employers, I remind you of the decisions that we have made, which we encourage employers to hire young people, that in the first year we release them from paying contributions precisely because we encourage them to employ more young people. As far as amending the Pension Insurance Act is concerned, it is certain that you understand very well that we have to do something. So it's pretty sure we have to do it. These amendments to the law are already on track today, on the trail of a solution in some other countries, or if you want in most countries regarding age limits. And of course I'm sure you agree with the fact that this relationship one, 29 employees versus one pensioner is hardly sustainable already today, especially in the future. Because when you compare Croatia only in that part of course, I do not think of comparing in economic terms with, for example, Germany or other countries and environments where these relations are incomparably higher in Germany, almost 4% versus one, but also in countries, certainly more than two of our neighbours. We really need to do something. Therefore, on the trail of various proposals, and especially from union centres, we have decided here that this law is going into regular procedure. We will accept all constructive proposals that will go after us to change something to stabilise the system by taking care of specific interests, of course, but also taking into account that women, of course, especially those who work, are holding at least three corners in the house, and that is the fact that should be taken into account. But also given the decisions made by you while you were Minister, but also by the Constitutional Court, the Law on Gender Equality and many others we have made. Therefore, both your remarks and the suggestions that you will highlight in the debate, Mr. Representative, the Government will certainly take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57944	Mr Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57945	I understand and appreciate the announcement that the Prime Minister will and that the government will respect every good proposal by agreeing of course and that the situation is indeed difficult and catastrophic in certain elements. However, the emphasis is on what you said we'll do something. It can't be something. This must be based on a clear concept, on a clear vision, and it must be done not in a partial way as it is tried. Otherwise, we come up with these absurd solutions. So, I'm calling and I'm glad he's been withdrawn from the emergency procedure. I call for a package of measures to be made really on one professional, serious basis to ensure that it meets both requirements. On the one hand, sustainability, fiscal sustainability of the pension system, but not to be an obstacle to the employment of young people and to staying in the world of work until 65 and not after 65 years, as this proposal offers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57946	Thank you. One notice. The Committee for Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy schedules a session for Friday at 8:30 in Josip Jelačić's hall. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Croatian Government, Minister and Minister. My question will be addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mr Drazen Bošnjaković, and the question concerns the work of the state's attorney's office, which is written by newspapers and portals and the day before yesterday's Latina show, selectively processes the cases, and some are held in drawers and 10 years. In fact, it's about the famous Kutla black book that was delivered on August 29, 2000, in the state's attorney's office by the former financial director... The Millennium Holding Globe... [[You don't understand.]] and handed over to Deputy State Attorney Dragan Novosel, who is today acting as the right-hand man of State's attorney Mladen Bajic. [[You don't understand.]] Has the state attorney's office taken the necessary steps during that ten-year period to verify the credibility of Milena's statement... on the cash payment of 800,000 marks on behalf of I.S., i.e. [[You don't understand.]] Eve Sanader, who also now mentions Austrian investigators, as well as Milena's repeated testimony... on the Latina show. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57948	Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57949	Your Honor, in 10 years, a lot has changed. First, a new Criminal Procedure Act has been adopted that allows state attorneys and other bodies to act much faster and more fully. What you're saying is that there are signs that objects are held in drawers, that selectively access, I just want to say that, we have a whole series of procedures, from Maestro, grants, indexes, a whole series of procedures that are very complex, relatively very open, and relatively fast closed. These are procedures that send a very strong message of fight and determination in the fight against corruption and organised crime. It is this government and the president, Mrs. Kosor, that almost every day points out that one of the government's strategic goals is to fight corruption unfettered. We do not, of course, work on specific subjects, but we provide conditions for this work. We have proposed, the Parliament has adopted new laws that allow for more quality treatment, we have provided resources to implement it all, and therefore this procedure that you said 10 years ago has been in force, unfortunately, by another law on criminal proceedings that did not allow for this kind of flexibility in action as we do today. And so I expect in this case you said, I expect speed and I expect efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57950	Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57951	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I thank you for your response, but I still think the testimony was the same 10 years ago as it was today. And if then the horse of corruption had been contained in time, he wouldn't have galloped for so many years with both red and blue dusty and muddy paths and shorts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57952	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. It is not the ministers involved in any scandals or affairs, but in human negligence, which, unfortunately, has an impact on the existence of 4,000 family farms. Last year, a decision on the temporary availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia was taken at the cabinet meeting, allowing farmers who are in peaceful possession of state agricultural land, which they have achieved through a one-year contract with the municipality or the city, can enroll those areas in the register and exercise the right to support them, and this right points out at the end of this year. During that period, the mayors and mayors were to open tenders for state agricultural land, but 100 municipalities and cities did not do so, and another 100 did not even create the conditions to call the tender because they did not bring the programmes available to agricultural land. It is estimated that because of such neglect by the head of local self-government, if this government decision remains in force since last year, there will not be 4 thousand users outside the legal system, i.e. by their own fault. agricultural holdings, and nearly 100,000 hectares of state agricultural land. I'd like to know what you're going to do to the farmers with the so-called to enable them to exercise their right to encourage, and for this year's autumn sowing, and it is 100 million kunas that are very important to them for the survival of their families and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57954	Mr. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57955	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. I agree, this is an extremely current issue, and that's what the Ministry of Agriculture has been working intensively all this year. In the course of this year, the Secretary of State, Mr. Joseph... who is in charge of this part of the problem, as well as the Director of the Agriculture Land Administration Mr. Vincek, have been intensive in communicating with representatives of local self-government units, and have visited and held regional meetings on several occasions, particularly with those who have failed to bring available programmes. [[You don't understand.]] Also called were the mayors of municipalities who had brought the programmes to the ministry, Croatian county mayors were invited, and we also asked them to increase activities related to the resolution of this part of the problem. Yes, in this year about 4,000 agricultural holdings, on the basis of certificates, produce and process agricultural land, a state agricultural land somewhere around 93,000 hectares. Of course, during this year, a good part of this land has already passed through the legal ones, I would say the ways of management, so either a tender for long-term lease or concession has been opened, or that units of local self-government have opened tenders for sale, lease or five-year loan. What we're asking of the local self-government units is the maximum acceleration of the process. We know that some units of local self-government have not solved property-legal relations, that the land is not arranged, but for such a part of the land of course that cannot be sold, cannot go into permanent alienation, is, there is the possibility of calling a tender until the settlement of property-legal relations or competitions up to 5 years in lease and we insist on it. We have also held a meeting with representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber where we have also informed them of all activities carried out by the Ministry, but we are also asking for increased activity towards local self-government units, which means that they are also putting pressure on local self-government units to speed up the problem of solving and calling competitions. We also held a meeting with the Ministry of Administration, an organised meeting with representatives of the Office of State Administration from 5 Slavonian counties because practically the largest part of this land is in part of these Slavonian counties. These days, probably during next week will be held a meeting with representatives of the Office of State Administration from other counties mainly northwestern counties and where we were given the agreement that they would be involved in the preparation I would say documentation for the call for tenders. So we're doing a lot of major activities, we're also supporting the Office of State Administration, and we're also willing to give all kinds of help to local self-government units related to calling and solving this problem. I am convinced that by the end of this year, a large part of these 93 thousand hectares will be solved through legal channels of availability, and we will also continue during 2011 and you know that the deadline for reporting surfaces and changing application areas is up to 15. 5. and I believe that by that deadline we can fully resolve this part of the problem, if everyone who is in this chain makes their maximum contribution and therefore asks for the maximum co-operation of local self-government and in some ways putting pressure on them. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57956	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57957	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your response, I appreciate the efforts you and Secretary of State Kraljičković and Mr. Vincek have made to address these issues at the disposal of state agricultural land because there is no development of agriculture or survival of family holdings unless they can enter into the possession of state agricultural land, and of course enter the register and get support. However, it is evident from what you yourself have said that more than half of the cities in the Republic of Croatia have not solved the problem properly and it is difficult to expect that this will be resolved by the end of the year, so I ask you to propose an adequate model through the new Agricultural Land Act, in order to bring about legal behaviour and municipalities and cities that obviously do not care about the law or farmers. And please, here's Mrs. Prime Minister with her associates to see the possibility that maybe through the government's decision that deadline is being extended to provide support for these 4000 family economies because they deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57958	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask Mr. Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Milinovic. Mr. Minister, in the last two years, you've introduced new participations, you've reduced hospital restrictions, you've reduced the number of specialist services, you've reduced the number of hospitalizations by 100 grand, you've abolished maternity homes, you've connected hospitals to the logic of the profession, you've abolished the supplement by nearly 400 thousand citizens. You make it difficult for infertile couples to get to their offspring, experiment with the smoking law. In one word, the quality of health care has never been worse. But you don't believe that, you said today that we want to turn your successes into failures. However, you obviously have far too many concerns building a house a little larger, 700 squares of functional space and a few hundred other facilities. How do you interpret the fact that the recession obviously doesn't affect everything, because while citizens are increasingly inaccessible medical services paying more and more expensive, until they know how to connect the end with the end, how to feed themselves and the family you build courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57960	There were no questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57961	Here, look, you've got one of your informants, check it out, so I got word yesterday that you're going to ask, here's how I know. Here, me and my wife said that, we've been working together for over 50 years, but since 94 tax administration. Total receipts of me and my husband, but that's 15 years old, by 94, are 4 million 154 thousand, 504 kuna, I guess I have the right to make a house in 47 years, here's a nice thank you to those of your ranks for reporting it, so here's the official information so you can check it out. As far as health care is concerned, I can see that your question was read, so it's probably not yours, but someone else's, I'll read to you yesterday's daily newspaper, Višnja Gulić. We often hear discouraging stories about hospitals, difficult operations, unkind staff, bad food, my experience is quite different. I was operated at the Sister of Mercy Hospital in Zagreb, the operation was not simple and thanks to the doctor who did thank you, not only for the surgery, but for the kind words, the willingness to listen to the patient, simplicity and closeness of the man, giving courage as much as I could expect because I first saw him in my life. Here's about a summary of the answer to your question. And you don't acknowledge success, so you're the one who's informed that you don't want to admit success. Here is a prominent week of News Week, says Croatia is health care in the first third countries in the world. How much did you say my house has squares from the paper? About 1,000. There isn't. Somewhere around 300 squares, living space, and everything else you can check in all the institutions of this country that I can check, my wife and receiving other parents. You see, I live with my parents, so I belong to a foreigner and I hold a family, so Mom and Dad help, sister, we're all a big family like the Croatian Democratic Community, everyone helps me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57962	It's very interesting to hear Mr. Minister what a magician you've managed to save 50% of your income, but you must understand that the people are smarter than you think and that people in your current impotence and anger that they feel precisely because of your court have nicknamed you "Dr. House."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57963	Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57964	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking the Prime Ministers. On September 12, 2003, at the 36th extraordinary session of the Parliament, where Mrs Kosor discussed Croatia's external debt, which was then worth 19 billion dollars, she said, quotes: "This is a dramatic upper limit that should not really go over. Every Croat, every child, and only one born owes about $4000 and 300." So Jadranka Kosor responded in 2003 under the end of Racan's government's mandate, it was September 12th. Seven years later today, after seven years of HDZ rule, I will not compare it with seven hungry Bible years, these 19 billion have risen to 57 billion dollars or in Euros 46 billion euros. So the debt tripled. I ask you, Madam Prime Minister, how much money is every Croat owe today, every child and what was only born? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57965	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57966	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Representative, I belong to those politicians who never give up any of their words, and we have witnessed just one representative in the city assembly of your party, specifically Mrs. Holy, who apologized to the citizens of Zagreb for everything you did at a time when the SDP has run the city of Zagreb. And you should have asked the question of debt to say how much Holding was involved in that debt structure, because of course you would have to talk about the debt structure, how many states and how many others. Of course you didn't mention it, so please, I will send you a written report in detail, but I ask that as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and until recently one of the main figures in the leadership of the city of Zagreb in all this that we have in creating an anti-enterprise climate around Warsaw and all that is happening to us today, so you certainly have the responsibility to answer me, or I invite you to an interview to answer me and the oral questions that I am very interested in. As far as the country's stakes are concerned, we haven't cut it, and it's now below 20%. We've successfully reduced it, we're still working on it. However, I ask you, I really ask and recommend when you speak globally, when you speak with the intention of humiliating the government then you talk about all the details, when you talk about debt, then you talk about everything I mentioned among other things and how the city of Zagreb, Holding and everyone else contributes to what your representative question is. So here's an extensive answer written that will give you an old age, so please try to insult and humiliate some line from which you won't go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57967	Here you go, Agent Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57968	Thank you very much. Of course you didn't answer me, but I'll answer what you asked. Currently, every citizen owes $12,000, three times as many as seven years ago. Please, you're still borrowing us. In these seven years of HDZ rule, Croatia has been in daily debt on average 14.5 million dollars a day, not only on a working day but also on Sundays and holidays and holidays and on Wednesdays and Fridays. That's the result of seven years of HDZ rule. As far as Zagreb is concerned, just one sentence. It would not have been such a debt if, four years ago, this HDZ government had not made a move to launder nearly a billion kunas and thus 4 billion kunas in the city of Zagreb. And as for the situation in the city of Zagreb, I have since been there publicly speaking about it, fought against it, unlike those of you who were silent and did not talk about the situation in the Croatian economy a year ago. And when I saw that I couldn't change my speech much, I resigned. Take the lesson out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57969	Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57970	Dear Vice President, I ask Mrs. Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, we have witnessed the catastrophic floods that have hit Croatia. How can floods be so unprepared? How could people be told that everything was fine, and then hundreds of people had to leave their homes in the middle of the night? Tell me who's responsible for the failures that took place.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57971	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57972	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative. I don't know, I didn't see you walking around flooded areas, so if I missed it, I apologize in advance. I've visited with my ministers, asked for reports from the competent institutions at any time. I don't know if you've missed information about the catastrophic floods in neighbouring countries, the catastrophic floods in Slovenia. I hope that because Slovenia is flooded you will not accuse the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HDZ. So, I'm looking for reports on it and I announced it to all the competent institutions yesterday. We'll discuss this tomorrow at the government's narrow cabinet, I got reports, I could actually say I get them every 12 hours from Croatian waters, but we'll analyze them in detail. It also means reports from all other relevant firefighters, the Ministry of the Interior, to the Department of Protection and Rescue anyway. What's a fact is also that these were the scariest floods here in the last 40 years, that they had happened as I've reported some unforeseen circumstances, like here yesterday or the day before that the rash actually took place in three places, but with all the details of whether someone missed out on something, whether someone in that chain had failed, whether it could have been more we would have reached a conclusion based on an analysis of all the data. But the fact is that all the services were on the ground, that everyone worked out of all strength, that here and yesterday we organized some additional activities, but also that the defence against the flood included the Croatian Army with all available resources, with all available machinery, with boats carrying people, food, etc. But, Mr. Representative, of course, I will send you a report on everything and in writing, with a note and a reminder that in the rebalancing of this year's budget regarding the floods that were in the first half of the year, we have made a decision to find, isolate and secure 300 million kunas for compensation and that you, Mr. Representative, for those 300 million compensations to the flooded have not given your vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57973	Mr. Representative Mario Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57974	Mrs. Kosor, the state takes big money from the citizens through Croatian waters, but when that money needs to be built a flood protection system, you have made a huge appointment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57975	Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57976	Dear Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'll ask Minister Bosnjakovic. The town of Zlatar, some like to say lately the city case. Believe me, Goldilocks and Goldilocks deserve nothing but on the contrary, they have every assumption that they are the town of a beautiful life where people will be happy to come, but according to the fact that the empty register that hit them is yet special. After last local elections, the HNS mayor lost the election. The problems begin, the truth comes out. Although it could have been suspected that something was wrong since the State Audit for several recent audits gave a negative opinion on what this House of Commons was also discussing. By the way, I have to say that the council members of the opposition at the time didn't get a chance to discuss this audit. After recording the situation in the city and in the case of government handovers, it is clear that the city is in charge of approximately three budgets of original revenues. I have to say, without any consent from the Ministry of Finance that I think everyone should have. The problems begin, the banks push, the suppliers seek money, comes to risk the functioning of kindergartens, salaries and all, and there goes the government with the help of a million-and-a-half kuna, and I take the opportunity to thank the HDZ and HSS coalition government for it once again because if it hadn't been, it would have been even worse than today's fact. The next thing you know, the way to do it is very questionable. My question is, Ministers, what is your knowledge of the possible responsibility for the situation in the City of Zlatar?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57977	Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57978	Your Honor, responsibility can only be determined by the court. You and I can have an opinion on something, but only in a court procedure in which all parties will be allowed to present evidence, facts, can determine who is responsible and, of course, sanctions can be imposed. Indeed, if a city is so in charge, if it has suffered so much damage that it is necessary to carry out the procedure and determine whether the decisions were made in the case of borrowing in accordance with the law or if the law is not respected, does that mean that the damage occurred by someone’s guilt? If that's the case, I'm convinced that the court will establish the truth and give a just verdict.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57979	Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57980	I thank Mr. Minister for his answer and I take the opportunity, given that a truly alarming situation, not to say the monster that happened in these few years of running the former set, that now these people, the mayor of Coplar, who is trying very hard, but at this moment, at one point I would say an almost unembarkable situation. So please, as far as possible, with joint engagement and vice presidents, the Minister of Finance and all of us as possible, to save so that the Zlatarčans can work the way they should, because let's not forget, and for the past 50 years they've experienced certain humiliations and gimmicks when the administration of Zlatar left. I think we're all kind of in charge of helping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57981	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57982	Thank you, Vice President. The question is for the prime minister. Mrs. Kosor, the situation in our bootleggers is more than alarming. Threatening strikes, threatening to pour dissatisfaction on the streets of smugglers. This morning there was a peaceful protest in Split by worker Brodosplit in front of the county. You are the head of a government that I would say offers no way out in this situation for Croatian shipbuilding and especially for the workers of our smugglers, although you have recently stated that you will not leave our smugglers' workers. So I ask you why you left them, why have our shipyards been put in a position not to have jobs? This applies especially to the Split Square.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57983	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, I stand absolutely behind what I said. This government will not leave the smugglers, this government will do everything possible to keep the squires working, to have a future and to feed their children. The smugglers were abandoned by all those who did not tell them the truth. Squires have also left all those who, above all, seek to drive potential customers out of their political manipulations to drive out those who have good programs and who are trying for purely political reasons to actually get the squires to their knees. Mr. Representative, as a representative who comes from Split, you must tell people the truth, and that truth is true. In the Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed by you, not personally but by your Government in 2001, it clearly states about the shipyard that only four more years can continue with what is called support, and then of course it must begin the process that we started. Therefore, even while you were leading the state, you could have done something to get that process started. But let's not go back in time. What's now the fact and the Split Shkver you're talking about there is, so we've called a contest, we have an offerer. On the trail of the offer we've sent to the Agency for the Protection of the Competition to be obvious. They're trying to supplement themselves, and that's a good bidder. And I had a very good conversation with representatives of all the trade unions in Split the other day we spoke very clearly and very openly about the facts, and the fact next is the restructuring plan should be completed as soon as possible. When the restructuring plan is completed, then it can be ordered, so it can be ordered further. The next truth and the fact that you need to know who's there at that meeting was told by the president of the administration. So, pay and work are secured by the end of this year, or by Christmas. But if you force the bidder, if the unions are deceived, that if they press the government, then, of course, the government will give some money. Then don't tell them the truth. The truth is next. The government can't. We're at that stage and negotiations, but we're not. The government can't. The only solution is to finish the job. Have a good, acceptable restructuring plan that will also be acceptable to the Competition Agency and to the European Commission and continue to work. I've received the smugglers, I'll take them. I'll go to the shipyard like I was there. As far as Split is concerned, I was in others, and I said we'd fight for your future. But she's not about going back to the way we were, and she's not about living in illusions, especially living in lies. Therefore, I, Mr. Representative, as an agent who comes from Split, invite you, help us, let us meet with this offerer, go to what he offers. But you should also be on your way to what's next. And don't I beg you, I believe you don't. Don't push them into anything from where there won't be a return. So are the others. Here's a good offer for May 3rd. Same for Brodo Trogir. So let's do everything together to realize that this project, that people have a perspective and keep working. Everything that's going on on the political scene. It's not good. I am ordering the traffickers, therefore to the workers in Split, Split Shipyard to really gather around the joint work and management as I have announced to the trade unions and the government to finish this job and ensure that people work and live really from their work, to see the perspective and, of course, they can not only feed their families, but also plan the future. You know it's the only one, the only time we have to go. Certainly, it is not irrelevant that if we want to conclude negotiations, we must close chapter 8. We need to close chapter 8. The street won't shut him down. Disinformation of workers who will then seek their rights on the road will not close Chapter 8 and you know it well. Therefore, if people are told the truth in the end, it may also be the conclusion of the negotiations, and I'm sure you don't want it, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57985	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57986	Mrs. Kosor, I am from the sea, but I didn't suck the oar. What you're doing in Dalmatia right now is called a chicken upside down. Mater, calm down! Try it. Madam Prime Minister, what your government is doing is the crawling liquidation of Croatian shipbuilding. If you accepted from the European Commission or anyone in Europe that first point of banning the contract of new ships, then you signed a death sentence, a verdict. Then you're the one who ruled them. Two privatisations failed. There's a third. If ships can't produce logic, something else will be produced. And then what happens? Then we really don't have any more smugglers. Then we don't really have any more industries in Dalmatia and the accompanying industries that are tied to the smugglers. That's why I call it one blow job to liquidate the circus and I don't force anyone into the street, Madam Prime Minister. That's what you and your government do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57987	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57988	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is unlike the part of a colleague and colleagues from HDZ who asked questions as if they were at a session of the City Council of Rijeka, so I invite them to be my guests at a regular session tomorrow and there directly receive answers to these questions that plague them. I'm going to ask the Prime Ministers. Mrs. Kosor, at first of course, I would like to stress that I strongly support the work of the jumping vertical which must be evident about making as many powerful, judgmental or non-judgmental judgments as possible for all suspects regardless of which party they were concerned. The key part of that jumping vertical is, of course, the Bounce. The SCOTT accuses Polancec of running a criminal organisation as Deputy Prime Minister. At the time the Deputy Prime Minister wasn't of course I was that and you were. On the eve of your testimony before the INA Investigation Commission, you held a secret meeting with Polancec. First, your spokeswoman Martina Banic tried to hide it from the public. But when the lie became meaningless, you admitted that the meeting had occurred. Mrs. Kosor, we in a normal and orderly democratic state do not meet with persons accused of being leaders of criminal organisations. And if they steal and meet with criminal indictees, and the public finds out without much thought, they resign. Will you, Mrs. Kosor, resign?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57989	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57990	No, Mr. Jovanovic, I will not resign, I know that you would want it because you think that all investigations would then be stopped so that there would be no political will to investigate in all directions, according to all who have sinned against Croatian laws, according to all who have stolen. No, Mr. Jovanovic, I'm not going to resign, I'm going to continue even harder, even harder towards the handles, and according to Daimler, and to everything of course, the bodies in charge come across. But I remind you, and I warn you, it's not you, it's not you, it's not you, it's not you, it's not the State's Attorney's office. By the way, State's Attorney's Office, this State's Attorney's Office that works hard to stop corruption, against it against the Attorney General, you've raised your hand, you haven't been to him, you're calling me today to resign, you want everything to stop because you're afraid it might come to some of your doors, but that's not going to happen. Because the government is determined, because in this government's programme, the fight against corruption is up to its last breath. When you ask me for a meeting with Mr. Polancec, he, as you know in some cases was accused, in some cases he was a suspect, I now ask you, you met there with Mr. Vinkovic your representative who was accused of stealing the state budget. What are you going to do now, Mr. Jovanovic? The same from the legal point of view you were in a coalition in Osijek-Baranja County and you were in a coalition at a time when your partner there was convicted in the first degree of war crime, you continued contacts and everything else, and then with that, answer the question of what kind of secret meetings were being held there. I met with Mr. Polancec as I had already said, and before and after I informed the State's Attorney's Office, it wasn't a secret meeting, I absolutely think that in that case you are absolutely insinuating and trying to get water to some other mill. No, Mr. Jovanovic, I won't give up, you won't scare me, I'm not afraid, and I will bring this job to an end no matter who it is, no matter who you're sending me messages that I'm lost, it's your qualification of my work. The prime minister is completely lost in her brooches, bags and attempts to be Miss Unions. Mr Jovanovic no, I am the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia who will sign an accession contract for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, I am the Prime Minister who will fight for economic recovery and against any form of corruption and crime, so this was also the crime that comes to the door of the SDP or any other party, be assured of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57991	I am your greatest ally in this fight against crime and corruption, regardless of which party it was, how much you care about the Croatian public is saying what you just said. Yeah, it wasn't a secret meeting, it's the fact that everyone who was supposed to be informed about the meeting, where in this story Mrs. Kosor is public, a question we don't have an answer to yet. This usually shows you how much you respect Croatian citizens. Polancec, with his statement, revealed that it had been decided by the HDZ and your government. You all knew everything, and you're all equally responsible under the Constitution. This Polancec truth that you erased him from the party confirms that I am stressing the HDZ summit in terms of political responsibility by a criminal organisation. From social morals...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57992	What is it that the top of HDZ is a criminal organization? Enough. I take it from you, Mr Jovanovic, this is an insult, slander, slanderous meal, to say to you that the Croatian Democratic Community is a criminal organisation, a criminal organisation, it is an insult, it is a slander, the least I can tell you is a warning. Because you have offended 220 thousand members of the Croatian Democratic Community, you have insulted the entire Croatian public, calling the Croatian Democratic Community a criminal organisation. Is it the top of the HDZ? Sad and sad Mr. Jovanovic and those insinuations you made that the top of HDZ should be sitting in prison, we read you a long time ago. We understand each other well. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57993	Thank you, Mr. President, I hope you stop attacking on the other side just us and not cleaning the ranks in your backyard. But I'm going to ask a slightly different question to our Prime Minister. A question that is different, but not less important than worrying about Croatia's future. This school year began on September 6th in the sign of 1200 less enrolled students in 1st class, 40th grade. Students enrolled this year in the 1st grade were born in 2003, were we all asked why, what happened in 2003 when the Social Democratic Government, which often highlights this very high social note, was in power and what made it a growing number of children were born in 2003. Why those very years that enroll first grade? I ask you that, Madam President, because you were a representative at the Croatian Parliament, and a resolute minister after 2003, and I hope you know that answer, and I will not be surprised as my colleague Anticevic why I ask you and why you know what happened before in that government. So I ask you to answer me what measures they have and what they have just done to have fewer and fewer children, i.e. what has been done to Croatian parents, to the Croatian family, that it was simply not Natalie as it is. In 2005, when 2,000 children were born more compared to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57994	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, it is not easy to answer this question at this point really when the atmosphere is returning in times long ago, 20 years ago, which is absolutely certain in a democratic society and a democratic state we will not allow. We are a democratic society, a society of a state in which there is a trinity of power, and we must stand firm together in all attempts to judge before the court, all attempts at discrimination, disqualification, and especially the party leading this country. And in that sense, here's what I'm trying to say is that we're going to take some steps. But now let me answer your question. As we have taken in this case, Madam MPs, and in the event of, of course, the collapse of what is most important and most valuable to us, and this is a demographic picture of Croatia, because all the measures you mentioned, which she was bringing back then, I have no intention of really going back into that past, but I also think that historical facts should not be forgotten. So the fact is that today, given the decrease in the number of first-class entries, we have reflections of the measures that were taken since 2000 and 2001 respectively, 2002, relating to population policy, which resulted in fewer and fewer children being born year by year. Why? Because people became insecure, because nothing could be counted on anymore, I told you today by the government's decision at the time, that 60 thousand women, mothers, who had the right to a three-year leave, had to return to work within a month and a little less. No one asked them if they had anyone to look after, they were all mothers of three and more children, they were reduced maternity, etc. So it was all a moment since 2004, which we felt was needed to change, and we introduced a system of delicate maternity benefits, maternity benefits as I already said today and for unemployed mothers, for housewives, but we also changed the system of child allowances, so we introduced a promising supplement for each third and fourth children, along with a regular allowance and that supplement, and introduced a series of other measures for which I do not now have time to elaborate, increased by 60 thousand children who started to receive an allowance. But what's most important is what we did, and what now shows results, means 5 thousand children more born last year than in 2003, shows that we've secured the system and we've shown that this system is stable. I will mention the fact that I think it is very important that everyone in the Croatian public unfortunately skips, and it would be the opposite if it were different. So 4 billion kuna for the allowance and birth benefits in the last year, when we had three rebalances, when we cut the budget by 7 and a half billion and this year when we were really on hard times 4 billion last year and 4 billion this year for extra and maternity benefits we didn't touch a drop. Although this year, thanks to God, the results for 2010 show that more children are born. We have now recently secured an additional 100 million kuna for maternity benefits. The ruling coalition voted for it, the opposition did not vote for it, and that should be said and should not be afraid of the truth. So it wasn't those who really believe that population policy, as the Zagorci would say, Mr. Vice-President Jarnjak is of the benefit, but we think it's important, we think it's a first-class national strategic issue, an economic issue and that today we're investing really in Croatia's future, in 20 years it's going to be people who are going to work and who are going to lead this country. Therefore, Madam MPs certainly believe that the results of the spectacular approach to any measure, in particular the population policy cannot be expected for a year two, but if the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are certain that each government consistently respects these measures, and not when changing government cuts and brings people to their knees, then we will indeed have results, they say the most important, most esteemed demographs of the Republic of Croatia, but also the United Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57996	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57997	Thank you, Madam President. So here's exactly what you said, the stability of the system is very important. I have to remember the events when the mother with four children came after this suspension of extended maternity leave, to me in the county, I was the headmaster, and asked me what I'm going to do now, I have to go to work. That's how the SDP government did it, they didn't care where the parents were going with the kids, and they don't care today, I have to say it. I am sorry that my colleague Jelusic left and I am not encouraged by his colleagues, so here in the city of Zagreb, they do not worry about increasing the birth rate. A growing number of unregistered children in kindergartens, parents must protest peacefully, indicating that kindergartens should be opened, and that was their job. I'm sorry there are no colleagues, because they're directly responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57998	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u57999	I refer my question to the Prime Minister, and I begin it with one quote from the four of us entrepreneurs, we have raised 150 thousand kuna each. It was not a bribe to the heads of HEP, but we gave those 600 thousand kuna to the party, to HDZ, said the chairman of the Zagreb company's supervisory board... Ljubo Busic. [[You don't understand.]] The statement ahead of USKOK gave Busic in the presence of his lawyer. The money was paid to HDZ during 2007 and 2008 in order to... got a job set up at the Sisak thermal power plant. [[You don't understand.]] Mrs. Kosor, you're the party president and you need to know that. I'm asking you how much money you've put together in this way and when are you going to get it back into the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58000	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58001	Mr. Vice President, please, Mr. Trazic, I didn't know you were a USKOK investigator. Because only a USKOK investigator would have to know about this kind of testimony, so I didn't know. Today, I'm going to ask myself if you're investigating in your spare time, so I didn't know that, but I didn't even know that any data at the time of the investigation and while it was a completely protected procedure, there was no one else but Agent Nenad Stazic. So when we figure that out, then we'll be able to talk. Mr. Trailer, it's not good to quote what you're... in the papers or what you're hearing. Of course, this is not good and it is not good first because you want to combat corruption in this way. You want us to convince different stories in this way but not systematically fight corruption, which means that those bodies and those institutions that are in charge of it are doing so, and you are not in charge of it. Parliament, of course, has a great role to play in this because it adopts the laws that we have proposed, Mr. MPs and related to the jumping vertical and related to the amendments to the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, as proposed by the HDZ Government. So, when we have the results and finally, of course, if someone on that basis is charged and, of course, if someone on that basis is convicted, sir, I'll be able to talk to you further. And the way you want to disqualify the party I'm running is, of course, already seen. You want to be tried, not here, you want to be tried by the HDZ and since you've been on Ibler Square, and that's not going to happen. But that's why I'm calling you Mr. Representative before these questions, so these are the insinuations you're talking about, because you read it somewhere, but the fact that the defence minister was talking about is the fact that you were riding a Croatian Navy boat for a swim and that's why you were wrong. Tell us in which way you will make up for this ride, explain to the public how it is possible in a regulated state because we can expect that one day when you would come to power to go for coffee to Peter Krešimir IV in Split and that would not be quite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58002	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58003	The sentence I quoted was made public. It was not denied by the BOOK, nor that Ljubo Busic, or his lawyer, was even denied by anyone from HDZ. Parliament is overseeing the government and it is a duty for parliament to take care of everything it learns, and thus to know that people have paid 600 thousand kuna in the HDZ cash register. As for the visit to Vangi, the request to visit Wang was sent to the President of the Republic of Croatia who approved it. You can't come to Wang by renting a private boat in Fažana so you can drive to Wang, or you can swim on Wang, only the Croatian Army can bring you in and only then if the President of the Republic of Croatia approves you of a visit and a tour of Wanga. This concern of yours for the budget is touching, therefore, my question when these 600,000 kunas think to return to the state budget is quite justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58004	Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58005	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, Your Honor. I ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Regional Development. Ten days ago, we could read in the newspaper that the primary school in the municipality of Klinka Selo will never be built, regardless of the fact that there is a valid building permit. I do not honestly believe in this newspaper text, which is confirmed by the current portal that I read a few minutes ago and it is about Minister Vukelic's statement when he answered one question about how he was transported by this ship, so he said it was unserious to President Josipovic and irresponsible. You can read on the portals now that Mr. Vukelic said that the unserious Josipovic approved the drive of SDPs. So we can't believe everything. However, I am asking the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for regional development. In what time can primary school students Klinca Selo and their parents expect or compete at the end and build an elementary school in the Municipality of Klinca Selo? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58006	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Well, unfortunately, many times he's been trying to tell the truth in the media whether in public and bringing people I'd say wrong, so there were a lot of words if you remember about school in St. Sundays that will not be built, and here some week ago, the Prime Minister is there, starting with school work in Rakiti. So I think that's how many of us have been denied. And in this case, distinguished MP you can be sure the works will begin very quickly, i.e. We'll have to call the competition first. Why hasn't the contest been called so far? The reason is simple, because complete documentation had to go to the review and we should get a positive review in that part. I assure you that in the shortest time of the week, the longest competition will be launched, and according to the selection of both the executives and those who perform will begin the work at that primary school in Klinka Selo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58007	Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58008	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, I think this is the best news for all those who attend elementary school and for their parents, and I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58009	And Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58010	Mr. Vice President. Madam Prime Minister. I didn't like the lot, so I liked the last one, but my question won't be about Daimler, not about the markets, not about the Rijeka Bank, not about Victor Lentz, not about the trains, there's more to it, there's more to it. And I'm going to ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Ivan Shuker. Mr Vice-President, the public is aware of the government's intention to revive unspective military property through civil and economically activated initiatives. It is mainly about properties that remain owned by the state and are no less attractive if offices are given a specific new function that will finally separate them from the category of dead capital. It is also known that the state is transferring to the property of the city military that the spatial plans provide for economic zones and social activities. For example, in the city of Sibenik there is currently a number of military requests where everything is not spatially planned for the purpose they would like to make. Please, Mr. Vice President, can you tell me what the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do in such cases?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58011	Vice-President, Minister Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58012	Thank you very much. Well, after a debate like this, it's very difficult to talk about one of these life issues but on call... They obviously came back at some time that we thought we'd been through. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All who intend to be judges, investigators, were able to finish those colleges and report to the competition and work today at USKOK, etc., and some unfortunately failed to reach a degree because today they teach us a lesson. Just as some teach us a lesson when the government is finally these properties that are staring empty today, and the properties that are staring empty, which have no economic use, are actually the most expensive, and at the same time the cheapest properties. So until the government set up a systematic program, then they attacked us for why we're not working. Now that the government has made a system program as one of the first steps towards economic recovery, today we are encouraged to buy something cheap. I guess it's from their own experience because in the past years they've bought quite cheaply what's going down today. So the goal of this government is very high-quality real estate, along with, of course, consent with the Ministry of Defence, which declares these properties militaryly inoperable, to enable them to turn into some kind of economic zone. Most of these properties on our Adriatic coast can be a very, very interesting tourist destination. And if we work that way then we can talk about creating preconditions for opening new jobs, and then units of local self-government need to take a step to make those dejections that are paid to local self-government units to a minimum because by hiring people tomorrow through communal compensation, etc. The profits will be twice as much as this one-time profit. So the government's intention is to go in this direction, but this step can be successful and can only be effective if supported and accepted by local self-government units. And I think that the government, first of all, and that's very important to point out, is leading a policy not on who's in charge of which city, which political option, but who has a quality program. Because let's not forget that in Rijeka there was one of the military that was perhaps in the best position, given for a new Rijeka campus, and that absolutely refutes everything our political opponents are saying. Because if we stick to the way they behave, the project would probably never be finished, but thanks to this government and the Rijeka students, and also a number of other economic operators in Croatia will get quality property for economic activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58013	Mr. Ante Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am glad that the Croatian government wants to put these military offices in the service of the economy because this is how economic recovery is raised. While the government takes care of the military's assets, so far others are driving on military property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58015	Thank you very much. No more questions, we're done. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure shall inform you that the Government has not delivered an answer within a proportionate period of time to MP Mirela Holly's question and, in accordance with that business provision, ask the Government to submit the reply within 8 days. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, the current morning is over, and the session is being held at 3:45 p.m. and we are going to the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, with a final draft of the law. So at 3:45, in an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58016	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we continue to work and move on to the announced first item of the agenda. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 596. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was held by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the draft law? Yeah. Minister of Economy, Mr. Djuro Popio. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58017	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me in a few words just a few introductory notes because over the past few weeks, months have already been said enough about this law but allow me a few concrete facts. Therefore, the Economic Recovery Programme in the area of the tenth social security system provides for a short-term measure. Therefore, the gradual alignment of age for early retirement, and the amendments to the rules for early retirement with the financial pensioning of early retirement. Furthermore, under the decision and resolution of the Constitutional Court of 18 April 2007, the provisions of Articles 30, 31, 66 and 78 of the second Pension Insurance Act, which have different age conditions for men and women, cease to apply on 31 December 2018. Therefore, the current status of the pension system with regard to the number of insurance, the number of pensioners, their age, or age when they start using their pension, and pension insurance rights is such that the pension system is difficult to sustain especially in the longer term. A few indicators. The ratio between the number of insurance and the number of pensioners is only 1.29:1. At the age of 40, there are only 11.65% of pensioners. Of that, in early retirement at 40 years of age, only 5526 is only 6% of all early retirements or 0.46 of all pensioners. 5876 women have an completed 35-year-old internship and more. 6.3% of all in early retirement. With an internship of 35 to 39 years, he's 23.81. So only 35% of the pensioners have more than 35 years of internships. The average year of all pensioners' internships is 32 years, 3 months and 28 days. Men 34 years old, women 30 years old. In retirement there are only 51.42% of pensioners, in early retirement there are 93574 pensioners. Perhaps these days and any more or 7.88% of all pensioners or 15.33, respectively, compared to the number of pensioners in retirement. As you all know in this year, planned expenditures for the pension system will exceed 35 billion kuna. What's changing? First of all, it should be stressed that it is not, of course, a pension reform, but only an amendment to several articles of the Pension Insurance Act. The peace reform was carried out on 1 January 1999 when the pension system really reformed. A second and third pillar of pension insurance was introduced, of course with implementation three years later. The possibility of retirement was abolished only on the basis of 40 and 35 years of training. So let me say it again. The pension reform abolished the possibility of retirement only on the basis of internships, so 40 for men and 35 years for women. Years of life have been extended as a condition for retirement insurance by five years. So that's when years of living began to move for a condition, a condition for a full pension of 60 to 65 years. Therefore, this is not about pension reform but about three amendments to the law. Therefore, a short-term measure, as mentioned in the Economic Recovery Programme, along with several more technical changes, one of which is the equalisation of age for men and women under the Constitutional Court's decision. So, from what is important, we have three changes. Equalises the age of men and women to retire, which is made by virtue of the obligation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Court found that constitutional provisions required respect for gender equality in the regulation, i.e. the exercise of identical rights, so the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act which determine different ages for women and men deviate from the highest values and fundamental guarantees of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. It's a quote from the Constitutional Court's decision. The period will be equated over a transitional period of ten years, so until 1 January 2020, according to the current proposal. So I repeat this is not a decision that women go into full retirement from tomorrow or from the day of application of this law at 65 years of age, but gradually increasing each year by six months because this transitional period is taking ten years. It must be noted here that the vast majority of European countries have this very solution. So, the same age for women and men, and exactly 65 years later, they have an alphabetical order of Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Germany, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden. Ireland is 66 years old. Iceland and Norway for 67 years. Secondly, the starting factor for early retirement is changed, i.e. Early pensions are reduced in such a way as until 1 January 2008. So it changes from 0.15% per month to 0.34% per month, or 1.8 per year from current 1.8% per year to new 4.08% per year and to current 9% for 5 years to 20.4% for 5 years per new proposal. We note that it is not about any pension, but about the necessary harmonisation, because if someone goes five years earlier into retirement, it means that five years will naturally take a more statistical pension, and perhaps give God longer, which is why his pension can no longer be the same, as if he's going to work five years longer and receive five years shorter. So, according to current regulations, a person who goes five years earlier will pay less contributions, and will receive a total of more money throughout the retirement period. Conversely, if he stays working for another five years, he will pay considerably more contributions, and he will receive a total of less money than a pension. There's been a lot of talk today about the big tide. This inflow has clearly increased early retirement, of course since the start of application of these demotivating conditions for staying longer in the working relationship. So last year there were 18,000 775 applications submitted, until today, approximately 12 and a half thousand were granted in 2010 according to the latest pension data, the Pension Insurance Office. And we know that the number of early pensioners has a steady trend in increasing. Ten years ago, there were about 25,000 of them, in order to be about 94,000 in the year 30,6. Of course, another change should be mentioned. At the same time, pensions will increase equally for those who will remain working longer. This is not a Croatian invention, this applies in many European Union countries, i.e. after conditions for the retirement of men after 65 years, and women according to those years that are foreseen in the transitional period are therefore for retirement. That means 0.34% increase every month for longer work, or 20.4% for five years. What should also be said, given that it is often mentioned years of internship, we already have a built-in coefficient in the calculation of the pension of the year of internship, therefore already today in the system of course whoever receives, who worked longer gets a higher pension and it is in the scales it seems to me, if it is five years longer work, that the pension grows by more than 20 percent. It's about here, of course, you all know it, but here it was probably necessary once again for the public, but also for those who may not be in the details of some facts to say this. I would also like to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has formed an inter-resor working group that will, of course, work on a comprehensive, comprehensive analysis of the existing system of entire pension insurance, therefore not only under this law, but on all those who are in force, which determine the heights or all other or any other factors related to the retired... and a very clear and precise goal of bringing solutions aside from these short-term ones to have a stable, balanced and sustainable pension system for many years, and of course which will also contribute to improvement in labour market relations. [[You don't understand.]] For this moment there is no need or much time to elaborate, if there will be needs, of course there is available for me and my associates to give further clarifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58018	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58019	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. First, it is not true that the full internship, i.e. over 40 years, has only 11.6% of pensioners, is completely excluded from those pensioners who have retired in proportion to their pensions, and there are more than 120,000 of them, and one of them has more than 40 years of internships, because otherwise they would not be able to retire under the legislation of other countries, so Germany, Italy, France, France. So I'm sure this isn't the right information. And secondly, we can't talk about an internship for over 40 years, because in previous legislation, it's been a full internship for women for 35 years. Therefore, I dare say that more than one third of the pensioners have a full period of insurance according to the former or current regulations. And secondly, there were 6,000 early retirements 10 years ago, but only new pensioners, early retirement was before 1 January 1999, however, under other circumstances. Early retirement is not an institute that was created in 1999, but we already have it in legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58020	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58021	I must correct your claim that the existing model, the system through the coefficient, enables those who work longer to retire. That's not true, and I'll prove it from two facts. In 2009, after the completion of the transitional period of the famous '99 reform, all who left with five years more retirement training received an average of 360 kuna less initial pension, and to correct the injustice and fraud pension reform from '99. This House had to pass a special law on the pension of new pensioners in order to correct the false formula of the coefficient and deception that was then introduced into the law in 1999. So you're wrong. The coefficient punishes those who work longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58022	Thank you. Whether the work bodies' rapporteurs, meanwhile, want to send their report to the Committee on Gender Equality. Do they want to take representatives of the working bodies? Yeah. Mrs. Gordana Sobol, president of the Committee on Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58023	Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At its 38th session today, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. The truth this morning, as a final proposal, but it's accepted that today goes, so they go in two readings. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative briefly outlined the most important reasons for the amendment of the existing law. By decision of the Constitutional Court of individual provisions of that law, they were declared unconstitutional. It is about unequal conditions for the exercise of the right to an age, early retirement, and family pension for men and women. The age limit for gaining the right to early retirement and retirement would gradually increase for women and they would, conditions would be leveled in 2020. According to the proposer, the more important reasons for the proposal are also the unsustainability of the current pension system with an unfavourable ratio of insurance and pensioners and the implementation of the economic recovery programme. The bill would detimise insurance companies to leave for early retirement and would also stimulate insurance companies to work as long as possible... for each month longer insurance remains. In the discussion followed by the members of the Committee, they expressed their dissatisfaction with the fact that, when establishing the conditions for the exercise of the right, the work experience of the insurance undertaking is not sufficiently taken into account but are crucial years of life. Furthermore, employers are primarily fired by older workers and leaving early retirement is not a free choice of workers for which it would be further retired. The transitional period of 10 years for equalising the age limit for the acquisition of rights for men and women is considered too short and the possibility of extending the transitional period to 20 years would mean a maximum extension of three months per year. Some members of the Committee expressed their opinion that it is necessary to consider the difficult situation in the pension system as a total financial situation in the country. The Committee members requested the applicant’s representative to explain whether there is a statistical data available on insurance and analysis which has recently made early retirement as well as what financial effects and during which period of time are expected from the proposed changes. The applicant's representative gave an additional explanation by saying that the transitional period for the equalisation of rights for men and women may be shorter and longer than that proposed. There are projections of the effects of the proposed measures by 2040 which show that they will lead to several early retirements in the short term but will have a positive impact on the financial stability of the pension system in the long term. The peace system provides workers at three risks of age, death and disability and employment to the applicant is not only a risk but only a criterion affecting the level of pensions. President of the Gordana Sobol Committee pursuant to Article 51. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have delivered an opinion which strongly opposes the adoption of such a bill because it further discriminates against women who, by all indications, are in a more unfavourable position on the labour market. The Law on Gender Equality has just established the possibility of temporary introduction of specific measures to eliminate existing inequalities in order to achieve real equality between women and men. After the debate was held, members and members of the Committee proposed, by majority, votes 7 and 5 against, the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58024	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58025	Dear President, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow representatives, fellow unionists. At its 44th session held on 21 September 2010, the Labour and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act with the Final Bill. The opening presentation of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship explained the basic amendments to the Pension Insurance Act as it has now done, so there is no need for me to repeat it again but to take a clear look at the debate which was comprehensive and in which the following comments and proposals were made to this Act were made. The current pension insurance system is unsustainable. The ratio of active insurance and pensioners is 1.29:1. In the pension system over the last 10 years, the number of early retirement pensions has increased multiplely, with nearly 25% of pensioners being disabled pensioners. The debate has repeatedly stressed that the proposed early retirement reduction is not a pension, but a necessary adjustment because those who go 5 years earlier in retirement mean they will also receive the pension for 5 years longer. In the debate, they presented a conflict of views on gender equality for women and men to exercise the right to an age and early retirement. In fact, part of the Committee's members thinks that the proposed time of 10 years should be extended to 20 years, since women in the Republic of Croatia still do not achieve full equality or equality and neither has society provided enough follow-up services, for example, insufficient number of kindergartens, homes for older and powerless, etc., that is all we have said that women are additionally concerned. Furthermore, part of the Committee’s members considers that this Law is of paramount importance and it is necessary to open a public debate, to include all stakeholders, to look at all aspects of the system, and to carry out, in a regular procedure or in two readings, amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act and to propose its entry into force at the beginning of the following year. In doing so, it is stressed that the working time and payments based on pension insurance should be a dominant factor in determining the amount of pension. It is also pointed out that it is necessary to evaluate the pension internship because the average pension rate is longer in early retirement pensions than in retirement pensions. Furthermore, the increase in the number of early retirement beneficiaries in large part was caused by the state of the labour market, as a large number of employers were being dealt with by extra employees. The opinion has been expressed that the proposed reduction in early retirement will generate an increase in disability pensions. Part of the Committee’s members consider that pensions acquired under special conditions so-called “reviewable” should be reviewed. Preferred pensions in which the Constitutional Court decision should also apply to representatives in the Croatian Parliament in the exercise of the right to an age and early retirement. The Committee members agree that without changing the relationship between the number of persons employed and the number of pensioners, it is not possible to secure a more favourable position for pensioners. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58026	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNSU Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58027	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, secretary, co-workers from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my presentation, I dare say that today the prime minister has made a much braver move than she announced in the summer months when she announced changes and additions to this law. I think that today, by withdrawing the emergency procedure or by referring this law to a regular procedure, so in two readings, a major step has been taken for Croatia in terms of retrieval of the government, in terms of opening negotiations with the social partner in terms of establishing dialogue between the social partners in the Economic and Social Council and ultimately enabling a wider public debate, a reasoned public debate. I think it's a good move and we welcome him to the HNS and HSU. What would be really inadmissible is that this law was pushed into an emergency procedure, and yesterday evening negotiations were held with the unions. This has never happened before in Croatia, something has always been negotiated, and then the proposal was sent either to an emergency procedure or to a regular procedure in the Croatian Parliament. It was never a proposal, it was in the Parliament, and it was still being negotiated. I am pleased with the same information that the minister of course did not say here, but we and our colleagues from the gallery unions have, that there are possible shifts in the definitions of certain articles, i.e. that individual institutes here intend to relax, and that we are obliged to say to the public that it is not definitely all so black, or that there will be room for further dialogue, for further negotiations and improvements possibly made to this proposal. Although in part I would never go personally into experiments like this. What is important is to say the same, and in this claim remains definitely, something about the correction of the incorrect quote tried to tell fellow Lesar, therefore the assessment that today if it is longer is and the pension is higher conditional, therefore not in all cases. And that's right, after 1 November 2007, when the Law on an addendum to pensions has been passed, and since then, we can say that the longer you work together with the supplement, your pension is bigger. And that's not the case with early retirement. No, it's not. It's mathematically very evidenceable. The early retirement structure, i.e. early retirement pensioners, speaks to the 2009 data. There are 9 thousand 278 in 2009, with an average pension of 2 thousand 424 kn, they entered into the system 35 years and 6 months of average internship and the average retirement age is 58 years and 5 months. Unlike the category of retirement pensions that has 11 thousand 64 who have entered into the system 27 years of internship and retired on average at 64 years of age. Thus, old-age pensions entered an average of 8 years of internships less than those of early pensions. Not to mention 11 thousand 801 disability pensions in the last year that have entered into the system of an average 23-year internship per person, i.e. the year of retirement is 51 years old. I want to believe that all disability pensions are correct, I want to believe that everything is clean here, but one thing is for sure, the number of disability pensions in Croatia is significantly deviating from the European average. The European average is somewhere at the 10% limit. Let's just say that for us, it would be up to 15%, but we have 27% of disability pensions, retired under the Pension Insurance Act, 27%. About 260 thousand disability pensions somewhere. So it's about data that's not data collected anywhere, it's official data from the Pension Insurance Office. This is a February 2010 bulletin, I don't know if there are any later, but these are the latest data. And speaking of trends, of course, the trend of early retirement was increased last year, because Croatia was also affected by the global economic crisis, where people stayed for work, and the Employment Service couldn't accept anyone who was looking for a job because of the provisions of the Employment Intermediation Act, which says you can't be at the Employment Service and receive compensation if you have one of the conditions for retirement. So they all just had to end up early retirement last year. That's what we want, of course, and we welcome this year to make it right. And of course, this year, not because of the people themselves, the trend continued with the announcement and signing of an agreement with the World Bank, where it was said that early retirement must be more penalized. It was signed by Minister Shuker, which led to the law making and, of course, panic was created among all those eligible for early retirement, as they are expected to have a bigger pension if they retire next year. And I'm sorry, gentlemen, we can't ban citizens from consummating their rights. Going to early retirement is their personal decision. And if you put someone in front of him, the second year will be more penalization, of course everyone can calculate whether they will have their pension of less than or 30 euros next year, not to mention bigger differences. What's definitely wrong with the system, I woke up this morning and went to count on these tables. The average year of internship in retirement is 78 kn per year. The average value of the disability pension is 78 kuna per year, and the average value of the early pension that brings the most internships into the system is 68 kuna, so 10 kuna less. It's now, without a new penalization. So it's by the current system with these values that are inside. So, what to say next, this was like this for the introduction. I want to look back on the bill and say the following. We're not just here to criticize, it's ours to notice what needs to be fixed by that and explain the need and the good decision to go in two readings because then the important law can be fixed because there are things that need to be fixed anyway. For example. There is a need to propose parallel amendments and amendments to other regulations, e.g. The mandatory health insurance law because, according to its provisions, the employer's pay falls instead of wages during the whole prevention of work due to illnesses of workers over 65 years of age, not just for the first 42 days when it comes to a worker under 65 years of age. We simply need to change that because otherwise this provision that intends to enable work and for more than 65 years will be for employers, or it will be for workers to be demotive. Of course, we agree that the funds raised by the contribution to pension insurance are not enough to pay the pensions of existing pensioners, but not only because of the ratio of active insurance to the number of pensioners, but especially because of the fact, we are convinced that more than 90% of private employers report workers to the lowest basis for payment of contributions, and the difference is paid to workers. It is necessary to maximise financial control in relation to this and, if necessary, to make appropriate amendments to the relevant regulations. The Pension Insurance Act has been updated as many as 10 times in 11 years. Common amendments to any law, and in particular such an important fundamental law should not be so frequent and should be considered and carefully analysed by the whole law, suggest the necessary other amendments, e.g. that the pension internship is not only accounted for until the day of determining the general inability to work by an authorised expert but that, until the day of termination of the employment relationship for those reasons, the insurance company has paid for the contribution. It's just a little detail that can improve this law. Therefore, Article 13 of the Treaty on the The proposal for a pension insurance law provides for an increase in early retirement, i.e. the change in the starting factor of the fourth year in 11 years, and the total reduction should again be 20.4% as before the last change. I am extremely proud that in 2007 we tempered it because I think we worked for the benefit of the Croatian state, social justice and I stand and today this factor should not be changed. The reason for the reduction in early retirement is that these pensioners use pensions for a longer period than those who have made retirement. Mathematical experts can calculate, through the relevant principles of actuarial mathematics, how much for these reasons, the amount of retirement should be reduced and it is necessary to do so before, and not to determine Dr Rukavin's system for one period and twice as much and then so much lower again. This is simply legal inadmissible and it is because of this fact that the expertise of the proposing amendments to the Pension Insurance Act can be raised. In any event, after the scientificly established methods determine how much the starting factor should be set out in the relevant article, a new sentence should be inserted that the reduction will not apply in the case of an insurance undertaking with an completed 40-year retirement period. One of the principles of pension insurance that is generally applied, except where the principle of solidarity is expressed, i.e. in the case of minimum pension or disability if the risk arises for professional reasons, is the principle of interdependence of the right to work contributions of the insurance undertaking. We have to keep it as an eye pupils because we have a pension insurance system. It's an important difference from having a pension system. The peace system can be purely social, but the pension insurance system must guarantee that whoever paid more and received more from it, exercising the principle of reciprocity and solidarity. Then someone does this to you when you're paying for your life policy. And what is the payment of the contribution that comes from my gross salary than my assets that are paid into the pension insurance system. Where's the difference, please? Of course, there is no difference and there is a need to take care of it, and it cannot be tied to the level of retirement just with the years of life. It's dangerous for gentlemen if we go that way. For now, thank you. I'll talk to you in an individual discussion, then finally again about the final word of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58028	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58029	Very short, two quotes from colleagues of the Temples who are not accurate. The withdrawal of the emergency procedure of this law this morning did not guarantee a broad public debate because according to our Rules of Procedure, the law in the second reading can appear already next week so that the next week. I hope my colleagues at the gallery know that. And secondly, it is simply not true that it has never happened that the Parliament discusses something and that the negotiations were only finished yesterday. In May, and Mr. Bebic can testify to that in May 1995. The parliament had already discussed the proposed Labour Act at the time, and trade unions with the government on the other side of Mark's square were still holding negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58030	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58031	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club certainly welcomes and supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. But I would also like to say right away in my introduction that we very much welcome this morning's decision by the Prime Minister and the Government that instead of being referred to urgently in the ordinary procedure, the government is sending a clear message that social dialogue is not only a rhetorical figure, but that the Government is actually living and implementing social dialogue in its work, respecting certainly the other social partners in the front row of the unions, so here I am using the opportunity to welcome the representatives of the unions who are in this debate. The adoption of amendments to the Retirement Insurance Act in the first place is one of the most necessary measures that contribute to the settlement of public finances in Croatia. We in HDZ have not said for a moment that the amendment of this law means or represents a reform of the Croatian pension system, but in any case this amendment of the law contributes to security, stabilisation of public finances and thus we do not say that pension reform and stronger procedures in the pension system are not still a challenge for the Croatian government and that the Croatian government should continue to work clearly. What is important also to say in the introduction is that the amendments to this law are in fact to the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme prepared by the Croatian Government. In this context, the measures to improve the social system are precisely about this measure and the amendments to the law, because the pension system in which this bill and we are affecting it is part of the overall social security system in Croatian society. Therefore, this measure is not an ad hoc measure, it has not been tabled or proposed by the government. It therefore makes one part of a comprehensive, comprehensive programme of measures by the Croatian government towards the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely in this programme one of the short-term measures. Therefore, the measure to be taken in the short term, i.e. By the end of 2010 but in its own strength, this measure is certainly one of the more long-term measures that contribute to both economic recovery and what I said earlier in reducing public spending and stabilising Croatian finances. It is also very important to say that it is necessary to move into such an amendment of the law because of the historically unremembered imbalance between insurance and pensioners. So, if one pensioner came to three employees in 1910, then at this point according to the data given to us under Law 1.29 and according to the data of 31 August this year, there are 1.13 insurance companies. So for a million and 537000 insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia there are a million and 110 thousand pensioners. If this trend continued and it is very important to say very quickly, it would be a situation that practically one insurance company in the Republic of Croatia has one pensioner. I think, therefore, that we who are responsible for the situation in Croatian society cannot allow a situation in which such a possibility could be said very quickly and thus clearly that this law requires us to cultivate a culture of work at the heart of a culture of unhappiness. I think that's what this law is about, and it's about passing a law like this. It's about proposing a law like this. Many of the data provided by the Ministry or the Government explain the structure of the pension system in the Republic of Croatia. The data was given just before, the esteemed colleague of Hrelja corrected it by saying that it was not accurate that only 11.8% of Croatian pensioners were retired from a total of 40 working hours. He's talking about other data. These are government data, those data that I present, and I believe that then the correct data is that only 51% of Croatian pensioners are retired with 65 years of life. And another feature of the Croatian pension system is the fact that there are 250,000 people with disabilities in Croatia, of which 200000 people with disabilities. Almost every fifth Croatian pensioner is in disability pension. That's about 20% somewhere. According to some data, the European average is about 7% to 8% of the total number of European pensioners make up pensioners using disability pensions. And another information we also heard this morning on the current morning, which is that the annual growth of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia is between 30 and 35000. Why am I taking this all out? For the first reason I should show, therefore, that this system and schedule of pensioners within the pension system in the Republic of Croatia makes it unsustainable and state budget and makes unsustainable public finances in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, if this is an exact yearly data for the financing of the total, i.e. the financing of all pension insurance rights in Croatia, about 35 billion kuna is allocated, then in the collection of pension insurance contributions is collected or charged better somewhere around 18,19 million kuna and around 16 to 17 billion kuna is allocated from the state budget. If we know that this rebalance of the budget has also established that the deficit of the state budget is 14 billion kuna, then even such deficit is not enough to implement the full financing of the pension system in Croatia, but at 14 billion deficits we still need to secure three billion more in order to fully finance the pension system in the Republic of Croatia. It is also a very interesting fact that the pension system in Croatia would be fully sustainable instead of this ratio that I mentioned earlier that a pensioner comes to 1.3. Therefore, in order for this system to be fully sustainable, a million new employees should be employed in the Republic of Croatia in order to be paid from pension insurance contributions in full. If we know that the number of unemployed in Croatia is about 300,000, so if we could hire the entire company of unemployed persons in Croatia, it would still take about $9.10 billion a year for the normal functioning of the pension system. So it seems to me that from this data we can conclude that indeed such a situation as is regulated by the Pension Insurance Act cannot, during a long-term period, make normal, sustainable Croatian public finances and that it is necessary to move into one of these procedures. Well, in that sense, the amendment to the law has made two fundamental changes. There are other changes that are clear, but it is necessary, at this point it is important to mention those two fundamental changes. The first fundamental change relates to the equalisation of the age limit for the retirement of women and men, which was mentioned earlier in his opening statement by Mr. Minister, as well as the Law on Gender Equality, speaking of the decision, the Constitutional Court's ruling, and on the other hand, the other essential change relates to the additional penalization of early retirement. What I must say, therefore, is that these two essential changes are primarily on the trail of what I was saying in my introduction, which is therefore to make as much of a sustainable Croatian pension system as possible, clearly in the first row in the section relating to finance, but also this problem in the sustainability of the Croatian pension system is not the specificity of Croatia, and this problem is not just facing Croatia, and this law, which today is proposed by the Government and which is in the Croatian Parliament, is probably in similar performances, in similar proposals and in a very large majority of European countries. I have in front of me one text adopted by the European Commission on 7 July, in which the current pension system in Europe is unsustainable. In the next 50 years, the number of pensioners in the European Union will double compared to those financing their pensions. From that point of view, Member States, this is a recommendation from the European Commission, should extend their working life and move their retirement as recommended by the European Commission. A Green Paper was also presented, opening the Commission's public debate on reform of the pension system and the public debate will open for Member States on 15 November. So I am in my introduction and said that this amendment of the law does not represent a pension reform, that it remains a challenge to the Croatian government, but in the first part of which the European Commission proposes to all Member States, it is practically on track also this proposal of the law itself. Otherwise, when we talk about equating the age limit for retirement, I would like to point out in particular that among the 27 members of the European Union, 16 of them already have an equal age limit for retirement, both men and women, and it is 65 years old. Some countries, i.e. other countries that do not have it, are in exactly the same procedure as Croatia, and some countries, Scandinavian countries, then Denmark, Spain and Germany are going to go even that age limit of 65 years further up to 66, 67, etc., etc., not immediately, but in certain time periods. So from all that is said, it is clear, in our club of the Croatian Democratic Community, that it is necessary to move forward in such an amendment to the law, and it is clear and good that the law is in regular procedure, because both in talks with trade unions and with pensioners will further discuss this law, but what I will conclude is therefore four important reasons. The first is the implementation of the economic recovery programme, given the crisis and recession Croatia is going through, this law seems necessary to me. The second is, such an amendment to the law contributes to a fairer establishment of generation solidarity, as it will clearly, if the law is adopted in such a text, that it is proposed to participate more and more in the separations from the pension contribution to, the art of the state budget. The third important reason, such a change of law and law if contributions are adopted to establish a more quality sustainability of the pension system, I mentioned that several times ago. And contributions, fourth reason, contributes to reducing public spending, i.e. less participation of the expenditure of the state budget in the total GDP, i.e. the gross social product in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, clearly for all of these reasons that I have cited the Croatian Democratic Community club welcomes first the decision to go into the regular procedure and supports the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58032	Thank you. We have one correction. Vice-President Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58033	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that the proposed measures in this law will stabilise, financially stabilise the pension fund, i.e. the pension solidarity fund. It is also incorrect that the proposed measures will contribute to Croatia's economic recovery. Namely, your allegations would be true if this recovery and stabilisation of the financial system were expected in the long term and in 20 years, but we expect measures that will currently have positive effects, these measures do not have positive effects. On the contrary, the way the government entered with this law in the process, and proposed these measures, will cause further problems in the Generational solidarity system, because beyond all expectations we will get 15 thousand more new pensioners this year and lose 15 thousand employees who have decided to retire due to the expected deterioration.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58034	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58035	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So you see those time-consuming amendments to the Labour Act are a kind mother according to this law. That's what it's all about, I'm talking about those withdrawn changes on the restriction of collective agreements, so something that usually exists only in privileged public systems, and transformed by these companies, but you see this pension law tangs I dare say literally everything. On those amendments to the Labour Act, trade unions logically settled because, among others, they themselves question why, in Croatia, trade unions mainly operate in the public sector, so in the state administration, health care, HRT, water, etc., in large private enterprises, while unfortunately, outside of that, they do not exist, and that is not good, but that is the case. And now that we have the law to compete with this, when the unions themselves who are up at the gallery realized that they themselves were threatened, they naturally reacted, somehow in self-defense and in 15 days collected those 800 or 700 thousand signatures. BUT I repeat, now that labour law was a kind mother according to what we are now discussing, means this law on pension insurance, and I dare literally say that this law is actually evil and against this law, I don't know, regardless of all the arguments that we hear should really raise the whole state. I know that similar, perhaps even more radical solutions suggest some other countries that are far more economically powerful than Croatia, let's take an example of only one France, there are other countries in the European Union, even I would say, so let's pass this extension of work, but if someone has gained 40 years of work, they have to go on full terms, under full rights in retirement, and that's actually the point. 40 years of work must be sacred for our legislator and no one should question those 40 years. So let people work if someone wants to work for over 40 years, but whoever's 40 years old gets to retire, and even when they're 55 years old, if they've got an underprivileged internship, for example miners, or go to that pension at 58 years old, absolutely no matter why he gave it to them. Also principled for women 65 years. Today we were on the board, and I think that one representative, an outside member, seems to have told me, imagine that women work for up to 65 years on the third shift, can I imagine, I am against that solution clearly, clearly, that I can imagine these situations because many women from Istria in their 70s, 71st, 2st, 3st, and in Italy where the worse situation is than perhaps after a machine in a Cimos. Well, among other things, they suggest stimulating the birth of children or raising children, etc., which our Constitutional Court does not normally mention. It is clear when we talk about that pension insurance that the problem exists, where the problem lies, and it will certainly be bigger. In the first year, we call these authorities after Eve Sanader, the number of insurance companies with a million 604 thousand falls to a million 530 thousand, or by 74 thousand 615. Now it's winter, it's season after us, I'm afraid we're going to day one. Seven. In 2011, have a drop of at least 50 more and maybe 90 thousand jobs. So only this unnecessary pension insurance bill that caused the panic in our citizens, in retirement, could dare say it drove away another 20,000 people who didn't even think about it a few months ago and that's certainly the problem. On the other hand, whether we tried hard or not, in fact, this government tried or didn't try, to get some capital, to open jobs, it certainly won't happen for a while. Those who trust in this country that those who are the feathers of conversion and privatisation, war profiters who sat in Pantovack or Mark's square will raise Croatia's economics, the economy is simply naive. Well, only in the last year's liquidity in this country has increased by 8 billion kuna, and it seems to me that the public debt of the state has increased by about 5 billion kuna. The gross social product keeps falling and in 2010 the brother will be 8% lower than in 2008. And if, apart from Istria that has so many large stable systems where something else is held, one Oil, one tourism, we even have some new hotels that were funded by Hypo, and it has to be recognised because others weren't willing to finance anything, I mean these other large systems like Cimos, Oils, Adrias, Stones, TPS, so they're still going to live, like here in Zagreb, but everywhere else in this country when it comes to the economy, it's already now a being hell. On the other hand, we see that this Law has changed ten times. I say let's not change this law 11 times now because this is the worst change. Either way, since 2003, the rules have spread in retirement insurance, both for the 3rd January governments and under Sanader, so it turns out I would even dare say that he was a bigger union than those who like to say for themselves today that the first trade unions are in the country. On page 2 of this Legislative Proposal, it is literally said that since 1 January 2008, in order to exercise the right to a family pension, the Law provides for the conditions under which it is deemed to be, it speaks of these increases of rights but there are too many and I will not read it. On the other hand, what keeps going on in this country, our jobs are falling, so now I'm reading and INA is sending home 1,500 people, although with severances from 20, 200 to 300 thousand kuna, MPs don't have them, from railways people going to early retirement get severances and over 200 thousand kunas and the number of pensioners with a million 148 thousand 290 a day, 31. 12. In 2008, it grows to a million 172 thousand, or we reach this famous ratio of one worker to 1,29 pensioners or pensioners, in Istria, that ratio is 1:2.1, as in Italy, but that ratio is just a disaster. Here's how it was, gentlemen, when you were already throwing in that rotten Tito Yugoslavia in '88, the worker ratio was 2 million 32,000 to 585 thousand pensioners. Ratio 1:3.47. So in that rotten Yugoslavia, you see Matusic's average pensions in '88. It was 75.3% of the average salary, so it was 41.26%. Now the average. ... I didn't sell anything. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is not 52 kn if you are interested, 52 kn sold in Vodnjan Municipality at the same time that the government sold 15 kn and when the third-month government sold Anita from Vrsar for 140 million kuna with all hotels, etc. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And your government sold squares for 15 kn. No, it was, whose Tudjman, Mateshina, Tudjman. And if you're interested in HYPO which is in Croatia 4th or 5th bank with an asset of 40 billion kuna in Istria is about 7th or 8th bank in size. And if you're interested in this country in the last 10 years, this government has taken at least 10 billion kuna loans from HYPO Bank and the County has been Istrian since the year of 2001. And that's what those who took part in it will say, and they've already spoken to both the lawyers and the BIA. And the Red Summit was funded there and something else. Based on this, the state has also received from VAT, I don't know how many few hundred million euros. But now it's less important that I go back to this pension system even though it's a little bit of a takeaway. The average pension or average pension worker in this country comes with 29 years of internship. The average defender is retired at 19 years of age, the average HVO defender at 8 years of age 5 months, officials at 36 years of age, etc. I agree that something should also be done with the official pensions of the president of the state, government, ministers, judges of the constitutional court, MPs and so on as it goes, so that a different internship is being held here in the Parliament or government, but also one who has 3, 4 or 5 terms of office, and there is no age to retire because a real representative of all but the poor is being resented and everyone else but himself has helped. And not to say what happens if it starts touching those 186,000 others who are in the system of privileged pensions. And let the public also understand, and also the gentleman at the gallery, that being in Parliament especially in the opposition is not the same as being in power. I won't say that every union leader is in a better position than the MPs, but there are those who are in a better position than the MPs. Secondly, what I was talking about today and on the board, the proportion of pensions in the Republic of Croatia in the country's gross social product is 10.5%. It is the same or less than the share of pensions in the Italian gross product for their pensioners or in Germany or France, etc. But the problem is that this share is growing. It's good that this law goes in at least two readings. I suggest you back off, throw it away, let it go if you have to in three readings. Let's not just rape relationships in society. If a referendum is to be held on this law, and if you do not be convinced that this law will change at the moment when the change of power occurs. Now a man asks himself a question, to whom does one law like this suit? So now we've got to be from 1.7 on here 20 thousand new pensioners. So add another 30,000 seasonal workers to that, that's 50,000 people to some care that's lost their jobs after the season. Who does a law like this suit? Only employers, but which employers. It's not that stormy one of those little craftsmen, merchants, that sort of thing. but corresponds to those large ones who, through conversion, have secured themselves, others, become the cariatides of this society and thus enables them to get rid of the ballast in workers. Of course I don't think workers are ballast, but unfortunately this is how it turns out. And for the last time I'm talking about these little merchants and craftsmen, etc. I think they should have those little craftsmen, too. To allow them to reach the space where they work, the worker is getting a social apartment, the farmer gets a country, defenders get apartments, tycoon factories, hotels, foreign banks, someone will say cheap land, THT etc. To those to whom the nationalized property is returned, the returnees are now receiving houses. They're the only ones and these protected tenants in this country who can't get anywhere. To conclude, understandably, that I am against this law, this law should be withdrawn, not forwarded to another reading and fought at the very least for more jobs before we go into these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58036	We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the first representative is Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to correct two incorrect allegations from Mr. Cain. The first allegation that says this law is evil and the second one that says the law needs to be withdrawn. So none of the other allegations are true. It is precisely a law that will have positive effects on financial stability, on the financial stability of pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. And certainly today, the Prime Minister has also given support and guidance to what we have also accepted the regular procedure for amending and supplementing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58038	Thank you. Correction Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58039	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm correcting the same assumption that colleague Klaric has stated that this law is evil. Well, no, this law is a need, this law is a responsibility to generations that come to the system not to collapse, to contribute to economic recovery, to a fairer generational solidarity and to all these other moments. And secondly, you also call upon this law to rise up the entire state. You're still in those times, and that confirms my thesis that you're still in the woods, and you need to get out of the woods for progress. There are 6 million 30 thousand cell phones in our country. Modern technologies, to learn, to get out of the woods. You mourn for that country, for that country that it was. So I suggest you build a symposium over there by the Sutjes' cold water, and then if you stay there in the woods at Durmitor, we won't be sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58040	Correction, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58041	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm going to correct the incorrectly used term given by my colleague Cain, the privileged pensions. Again, Croatian defenders are also referred to as Croatian military invalids of the Homeland War. It's not fair and correct to call a team the names of the boys who were killed in the war. Try to go to the exhibition, if you dare, organised by HVIDRAs all over Croatia, where you can see in the photos what these guys look like after the Homeland War. And finally, if you suffer so much for Yugoslavia, there are such things in the world today. It's North Korea, Cuba, I believe they'd be happy to welcome you to their countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58042	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. MP and Vice-President Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with this very last correction. In fact, you said nicely that it is necessary to do something in the pension insurance system in Croatia by correcting the alleged incorrect allegations of the previous speaker. It is true that it is necessary to do something, but it is entirely incorrect that this law guarantees and complies with the requirements of the change that the pension system, or pension insurance system, is seeking. The solutions proposed by this law, the measures proposed by this law, the effects to be achieved by implementing such measures would be exactly the opposite. In no segment would we please what we all agree on. We need to get into the pension system, see what kind of corrections we need to make. Until this morning, the government insisted that this and this bad law be passed by emergency procedure by refusing any debate, open debate, confrontation of arguments, not politicisation. We asked for it. It's a serious problem, it's a long-term system, a system that simply doesn't suffer permanent changes. Today we are who knows for what reasons, probably because of political pressures or fear of political negative effects, we get the government's agreement that we are still discussing in two readings, that we can still have a chance to say something about this proposal and also about the broader measures that we think are necessary. Today, in a speech by counterpart Bačić, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, which otherwise makes up the Government, which also represents the Government in the Republic of Croatia, a party representing the Government, we heard it done in the European Union. The European Commission, or the European Union, is opening up, listen well, I will just repeat what my colleague Bacic said, a public debate on the needs of change in the pension system, because for demographic reasons and some other reasons, the systems are becoming unsustainable and their long-term sustainability is at stake. Mr. Bacicu, there is no minister here to address him, but you are very close to this government and you are very close to the president of this government that has a key influence on how the government works. This message, I ask you, here on a public debate, convey to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Economy in charge of this area, to the entire government, and to your club, the majority club, because you can vote everything in your votes. Discuss this method a little bit, a public debate and a broad public debate which, in the SDP's opinion, must not remain barricaded within the social partners' circle. It must be much wider because it concerns the future generations of those who are members of the union or belong to a group of employers, as well as those outside those groups. So there's also an opposition here to say, behind the SDP stands 800,000 citizens who expect us to share in the debate and this argument in the debate on how to improve the pension system, the pension insurance system, not only to be sustainable because of the government's interest and ratings but that our children in 20, 30 years could calmly count on them to receive a pension. The proposed amendments are based, as the government explains, on the fact that pension insurance is characterised by negative trends based on generational solidarity. There are fewer and fewer employees, more and more pensioners, a decline in gross social product and similar negative trends. But also, it is on the government's assessment that the costs of such a pension system are too high and that they need to be reduced and slowed down. There are no calculations, no projections that could be considered as arguments in favour of this second thesis, that the system is unsustainable and that the costs are too high. We also heard that government representatives at committee discussions said there were projections of long-term effects, calculations of long-term effects. I am really here on behalf of the entire club asking the question why these calculations are hidden from MPs, as the government thinks we will raise our hand for or against any proposal that comes from us if we hide the calculations and facts that are important elements for making decisions about such a law and such measures that the law proposes. It also forgets that the government is responsible for the negative trends, all of these numbered, to the greatest extent, not to say guilty, that particular government. Imagine how many more jobs there would be if the money that was sucked out of thieves and corruption affairs remained in the economy, how many more employees, more taxes and contributions, and how much problems pension payments would be less. The stronger the economy, the stronger the gross social product, and the faster the development of the government through the past two mandates has cost the country, not only raised its costs, increased the efficiency of the state and state bureaucracy and opened up space for investors, reformed the tax system, and not resorted to that poor habit of constantly introducing and dodging intervention taxes and various allegations today, we have a tax, tomorrow we are abolishing it. How many more employees and fewer pensioners would be if those investments we recently saw had been completed in the daily press, which today, which are not completed because of the country's lack of care, because it was unable to combat bureaucracy and bureaucratic obstacles. How much easier it would be for dear colleagues and colleagues today to discuss the necessary adjustments to the pension system to gradually increase the isolation of the second pension pillar over the past two mandates, and to better address insurance pensions from the transitional period following the introduction of the second pillar. How much easier it would be to discuss this issue that the government has proposed measures that would regulate labour market relations and do something to protect workers from unconscious employers, and we know that there are. Unfortunately, there was nothing or not enough. We have received only a proposal to amend the law that makes women's right to receive pensions and the position of all future pensioners who leave early retirement. This is another example of how this government is more concerned about its survival in power than about the stability of the pension system. In 2007, it was also today before the elections that you reduced the monthly reduction for early retirement, and now you're getting things back to normal. Don't be angry that I'm going to ask myself out loud, can next year, the election year, expect a change from your ranks again? Work to achieve a full pension should be stimulated. That's where I agree in the settings. However, we disagree with how this is proposed in this law. It should be encouraged to work until the conditions for retirement are met, and not beyond that. Stimulating people to work until the 70th year of their lives through the conditions for full retirement is an unnecessary cost, an unfair and unfounded measure. It is terrible that the bill states that this measure will stimulate a longer stay in the world of work. Gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues, some other measures should be taken for the effect on work itself and the labour market. Equalising the conditions for retirement for men and women is explained by the government's enforcement of the Constitutional Court's decision. However, the Constitutional Court did not order that the law be changed by an emergency procedure, as you originally wanted to do without debate, without an analysis of the consequences, without calculating what these effects would have. Such a solution for women of future retirement means definitely a deterioration of their position. At the same time, we live in a society that admits that women are discriminated against for that. We are equalized by this proposal in the wrong place or even better said in the wrong way. We SDP women and all those who have invested over the years have actively made great efforts to reach equality step by step. We want to eliminate all inequalities. This means for us in the future and this equalization of the conditions for retirement. Equivalence of that working experience, or of the age of life. However, we don't think that this solution is over the knee or the solution already spoken of in the towers, which he says, let's increase it up, now we're going to trade that deadline in a few years, and we're going to calm the public down that it's a good solution. We demand a broad debate and agreement on the measures of positive discrimination that women are entitled to because of constitutional equality. If we have to even this out to see what other measures are that will allow women not only on paper to be equal in the next 20 or 30 years, but also in real life, in everyday life, to have positive measures of discrimination and equality. By opening the debate on amendments to the Pension Insurance Act here in the Parliament, unfortunately, this is the only place we are opening a debate right now we are facing an important decision. It is important because the measures provided for by this law have a direct long-term impact on the entire pension system. And more or more for us in the SDP, the most important influence on the quality of life of people and social security at age and impotence. When we talk about two readings and some compromise that the government has resorted to, we don't just accept two readings, but we are really looking for a broad discussion, a debate about what it is possible to make years of internships a more important factor in full retirement. We expect the opening of a debate on the situation not only in the first but also in the second and third pillars. Do you colleagues and colleagues know that the government is stimulating those who are saving in the third pillar, and it wants to punish an increase in poverty that does not exist in the third pillar because it is the privilege of those who earn so much money that they can single out and save. Do you know that and do you think that's just? Of course, there is a measure of some justification, but it is not moral and certainly not just. We expect and want to open a debate on privileged pensions. We want now that we've decided to fix what's not good in the pension system to do it systematically, seriously, responsibly and with arguments. Because the pension system does not suffer permanent changes and changes. This is a bad practice that calls into question the equality of insurance and justice of the entire system. Comrades and colleagues, frequent changes if we continue to do so will result in a violation of the basic system settings because what happened 10 years ago has become unfavourable today. '99 Peace Reform. She completed her system for years, left some positive fluids. However, the change in market conditions, the economy, the labour market is also demanding that we make maximum efforts and adapt the entire system to these changes. In periods of growth, the gross social product, the growth of the social product, the collected money had to be invested in strengthening that pension system, you did not, you missed it, and we are not only calling for this moment, but we require that changes that will have to take place on the principle of broad public debate, firm arguments, long-term quality and sustainable solutions, do not want to raise our hand again or refuse to raise our hand for something that is only a superficial approach, something that will ensure that it holds water until the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58044	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at five o'clock and 15 minutes, it's past the time of the ten-minute hearing. Now we have a few corrections. First Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58045	Thank you, Mr. President. ... I liked to be able to replicate part of the exposure, but here's how she spoke on behalf of the club I can't do it. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] The first incorrect assumption is that the government hides and distorts facts and calculations relating to the financial part of the pension system. That's not true. The government is very transparent to the public all the data and facts, and much of it has been heard today in the debate. And another incorrect assumption is that I said I also found from my presentation that the government is not going into reform, and that this reform is this bill. I made it clear that this is only a change of law, and that the government still faces the challenge of full reform of pension insurance. And it is not true that this sequence of events is not in Europe. In Europe, too, in the first step of the Member States first increased the age limit and equated the age limit by... A pension for both men and women, and I have stated that this is in a large part of the European countries, and that in the second step they are announcing a reform of the pension system whose public debate over the implementation of this reform begins with November 15th. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58046	Thank you. Correction of Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58047	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that the government is guilty and responsible for why individual investments in Croatia have been stopped. If you are going to analyse the list of these investments, colleagues Antunović, then you will find, among them, Warsaw,... The immeasurable contribution of the SDP and its behaviour in the City of Zagreb or Rockwul where the ids's contribution is immeasurable, etc., so the government has nothing to do with it. [[You don't understand.]] The government contributes to a better entrepreneurial climate, and you contribute to a negative entrepreneurial climate in the Republic of Croatia. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58048	Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58049	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleagues have corrected this, in part, this assumption that the government is hiding. My colleague Bacic corrected the data. No speech, no one hides anything, everything is clear and transparent on the pages of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. It's all clear. A colleague of the Hrelja indicated a lot of data, that he found from the newsletter, and that's all very, very clear. So there's no hiding. And the other thing you're instructed to do is how much this or that would have happened if it hadn't happened or that. And I'm asking the question of how much money would have been if we hadn't had to pay back that money to the final judgments that came in line with your decisions. As long as we didn't have to correct those injustices about maternity benefits, the rights of Croatian wartime disableds and defenders, how much to do. And I was particularly impressed by this moment when you said that women came into an unequal position. So I just want to remind you that, at the time of the government in 2003, the strategy adopted, I am asking you to document where it is said exactly that it is wanted, here in this, the thematic session was very clearly justified by the former minister of social care, Mr. Vidovic, where projections were therefore in this direction to equate the age of women and men. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58050	Correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58051	So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of MP Antunovic where she said that the equalising of women and men's retirement was, that it was working the wrong way and that she was willing to have a broad debate. So if this honesty were in this presentation by Mrs Antunovic, I would remind her that there were opportunities to conduct a broad debate just before 14 June 2003, when the government in which you were Deputy Prime Minister adopted a strategy for developing a pension system in which she clearly said, not until 2020, but by 2018, they had to equalise the years of life to 65 years of men and women with it, and after 2018 to 67 years. Well, I guess that's when we were supposed to have this debate, so we wouldn't be talking about it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58052	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58053	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So far, the Pension Insurance Act has gone through many changes and additions, and in itself it says that pension insurance reforms are extremely sensitive, extremely difficult and cause extremely heated reactions in the general public. And this proposal of the Pension Insurance Act brings some changes to the pension insurance system that have already caused heated reactions both to citizens and to the professional public. And we therefore believe that it is good that today the Prime Minister, or the Government, has accepted that this bill goes into second reading, and I believe that the Government will find together with the social partners a compromise solution to the satisfaction of all. In this introductory explanation of this proposal, the proposer points out that, starting with the current economic financial situation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia presented an economic recovery programme in May 2010, stressing that preparations would be made for introducing changes to the pension insurance system. As the first measure is implemented or implemented in one part of it, the second measure provides for the gradual harmonisation of the legal age for retirement and early retirement for women and changes to the rules for early retirement, i.e. the reduction of early retirement. The proposed Law would regulate the gradual increase in the age limit of women to acquire the right to early retirement and retirement and to increase pensions for early retirement and to equalise the age limit for parents to obtain family pension rights. It is proposed to increase the age limit by 6 months in each calendar year from 2011 to 2019. The conditions for gaining the right to early retirement and retirement for men and women would equalise in 2020. This would eliminate inequality in the exercise and acquisition of these rights of men and women, which has also been established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the law on pension insurance, would be brought into line with that decision of the Constitutional Court. This change has caused a number of public reactions, namely, asked whether it is fair for women to work up to 65 years of their lives in view of a very common almost regular situation for women working hours and starting often only when they come home from work, when they have to do all those chores so that their household can function normally. The question has been raised whether it is justified for women to work for up to 65 years of their lives, given that workers who spend their working life on physical jobs are exposed to the daily efforts that are exhausting and disrupting their health, it is also necessary to highlight here very difficult working conditions such as certain activities and I will especially highlight the example of the textile industry, women in the countryside who are also engaged in agricultural production and a number of other activities that require special conditions. There is also a bitter reaction of young people who can't find a job wondering when they'll even get a chance to get conditions for any and let alone retirement. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court's decision under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is all equal before the law, and gender equality and gender equality are among other things the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and are the basis for interpreting the Constitution. These values are based on the procedure before the Constitutional Court because different ages are prescribed for the exercise of identical rights only because they address this right of different sex. The Constitutional Court has assessed that there are no constitutionally acceptable reasons why the Constitutional Court could assess the different legal arrangements of the age for the acquisition of the right to an age or early retirement pension and the remaining rights arising from pension insurance. And different rules apply to their acquisition depending on the sex of the addressees who exercise the same rights. In doing so, the Constitutional Court respects the complexity of problems related to equalising the age of women and men in the pension scheme and shows that the implementation of the necessary measures requires a longer period of time. For a more detailed solution, the Constitutional Court also takes an example from Great Britain in which the right to pension was acquired in the same way as in Croatia, and the UK has also evend out the age of women and men to obtain pension rights, believing that there is no room in modern society or reason to justify an authorised retirement age. The Constitutional Court also sets out in its decision a number of other data indicating the justification of the decision on the equalisation of the age of women and men for obtaining pension rights which at this time may be the most interesting indication of the strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia in the 21st century, the strategy for developing the pension system and social care system since 4 June 2003, in which the question of equating age for the retirement of women and men is clearly highlighted and explained. We feel that it is necessary to refer to the change in the pension system that brings about the amendment to Article 12. The Retirement Insurance Act provides that persons carrying out the agricultural activity as a sole and principal profession are required to be required to be included in the register of agricultural holdings in the sense of the holder or a member of the holding. According to the 2009 Agricultural Act, some concepts or categories such as the agricultural holding, the family holding, farmer or holder of the family holding have been defined as a permanent or occasional working person on the holding and are responsible for its business. Article 23 of the same Law also introduces a register of family holdings containing information on the holders and members of those holdings. Articles 10 and 13 of the Pension Insurance Act provides for an obligation to provide pension insurance to legal persons employed by companies and other legal persons of agricultural activity, while Article 11. The pension insurance law shall be governed by an obligation for pension insurance in the case of crafts as an independent activity of agriculture and forestry. The entry into force of the agricultural law has created a need for a new definition of farmers from the family holding as insurance in pension insurance. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law under which farmers whose agriculture is the sole or principal occupation and who are registered as such in the register of agricultural holdings. This would establish, by entering or deleting the register, the property of the insurance undertaking in accordance with Article 12. Pension Insurance Act. This would include, as well as other activities of pension insurance under this Act, persons who are actually engaged in agricultural activities. The applicant estimates that this measure will increase the current number of persons covered by compulsory pension insurance in this capacity. We at the Club of the Croatian Peasant Party believe that the applicant will also take into account the proposals and remarks given through the debate in the first reading and will certainly take care of certain elements such as already highlighted working capacity, type of activity or better said working conditions. DAD will take care of years of work because we have examples that in some activities women begin to work at 16 years of age, and what makes it clear to them, and we could clearly come into a situation if we did not notice some of these specificities and adopt this proposal without exception that some women from 65 years of age would have a 50-year job experience. What about when you were 64 or 48 years old, you couldn't go into full retirement, but at 65 years of life and 15 years of retirement, you could go, which I think you should also take care of. Or here we believe that a number of other specific elements that we believe would greatly improve the proposal for this law. We also believe in finding compromise solutions between the proposings and the social partners who continue to hold talks and believe that everyone in the interests of the pensioners but also in the interest of the sustainability and successful functioning of the pension system will find adequate solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58054	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58055	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with colleagues. On behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, I will try to say our view of this problem, which we do not think is small at all, that the problem that must be addressed very carefully with increased debate and increased communication of all interested entities and users of this legal text. And it's also likely that this has certain sociological dimensions, and it's probably undefined political implications when it's being brought right now. So, we at the SDSS Club are extremely grateful for the ministry's efforts to contribute to this text, so these changes and additions not by reform but by changes and additions to the pension system, to contribute to the economic recovery that we are talking about so much and which, of course, we all care about. It is clear to us that this text was brought in a situation where we have certain mathematical indicators that, in order to fully meet the needs of the retirement insurance domain, it takes €30 billion a year, and that our capacity at an annual level is estimated at €20 billion. And then the question arises, where do we sow this real difference of 15 billion kn for all the needs of these obligations to be fulfilled? It is clear to us that you have been restricted and bounded by a constitutional court ruling that we are all calling upon here, when we talk about that sensitive theme 65 years of training for women. We also think that there are still consequences that have spread over the past 20 years of those famous unreal layoffs, unreal retirements, and even on some national basis in the '90s. We are also fully aware and I believe that there are certain consequences and pensions for young people in full physical and labour. Therefore, if we take all this into account, then we realize that you did not have an easy task in creating this legal text, or you simply could not make everyone happy that both the register and the budget of this fund were much. However, I will point to several things and institutes that are being built in or that are changing in relation to previous legal dozens of texts, and we have a certain view of these institutes. First of all, we think that the main premise of this whole debate is two basic things. How to extend the working life span to everyone until the first retirement, and the second, he proposed how to equalise women and men in that fact in the fact that they both go from 65 to 65 years in retirement. This is where the polemics are opening, and the polemics were public. Is that plant enough? Is she supposed to happen again? I think it is, I think it's a sensitive question to end this debate and we need to talk about it. So the first thing to do is extend the working life and the need to fill funds from active workers, we can understand and understand. As well as the need to address the consequences of the previous consequences of the system anomalies that I have been talking about, we fully understand. But we can't accept the thesis that working productive people are workers of 65 years of age. If they were builders they worked in the construction sector, if they were drivers, if they were in the extreme case of simplifying if they were catering workers so a woman who was a caterer for up to 65 years must stand on her feet to be zealously doing her job, we cannot accept the fact that it is a working capacity stronger than the capacity of young people and we think that such a sort of comparison and giving hope that this category of people in 65 years will save the financial gaps we have and the lack of funds we have in the Peace Fund think it is an unrealistic expectation. The second thing is the intention of equating men and women in the length of work, or life in the realization of the first retirement. We have here a decision of the Constitutional Court that we all call upon, and we think that it is a limiting factor, and I'm going to say something about it later. First of all, I think this question is very sensitive. I'm not going to comment on the feature, but I can't help but ask myself one question if we've asked women if they want to be even with men in this right. I was talking to my environment and I got the impression that this kind of equal rights, those women I talked to, they weren't looking for. Did we take into account what is most important, the biological being of that woman with all the things that years and the biological mechanism and the biological clock bring to women at 65, did we discuss the kinds of affairs women do? A colleague said they start at 16, some at 14 start doing work and ask what kind of work they do. In addition, some data suggest that women work 1.5 lifetimes longer than men, and this other half when they come home and when they take care of family, child rearing, etc. is often much harder to work more complexly than those who have while working in paid working hours. In short, it is our view that women should not work until the 65th year of life, and we think that 65 years of women's life should not correct any mistakes and anomalies that have occurred in the system so far. In a way, we think it's some kind of ultimate dehumanization of our society in front of all of what's going on and what's called this neoliberal capitalism that's already shown its true face. In conclusion, this decision of the Constitutional Court that we all call upon is not as rigid as we feel. I have here thanks to my colleague Chuhnil, if she lets me say so, I have here a decision of the Constitutional Court. I would ask that an article be read and analyzed, commentary on Article 14. The Constitution where it is said that, where the legal position is expressed, Article 14. The Constitution does not prohibit the legislator from regulating the rights and obligations of certain similar and similar groups differently, if this corrects existing inequalities between these groups or there are, therefore, other justifiable reasons in the Constitution. So that's one thing to think about. I suggest to the promoter to deal with this one interpretation of this Constitutional Court decision, so we may find some compromise solution about this famous 64-year-old category of life, find certain benefits that this difficult category is sort of amortised and tempered. The following is Article 13. We think it's a little irrational that pensions are further stimulated at 0.34% after 65 years. That's what my predecessors were talking about, a lot of it was said. It is unrealistic to expect young people to get a job, say, in terms of easier jobs, administrations, administrations, etc., if someone in that administration and after 65 years will have a desire to sit down and work until some final years, etc. So it's a strange situation to just stimulate someone not to retire, and here we're talking about hiring young people, opening some jobs. How a young lawyer will get a job in the judiciary if all judges work for over 65 years because they work in warm and do relatively peaceful work unlike some in open-air buildings, etc. Therefore, these are all things to talk about that should not be generalized. The next is, what I'd like to say is also a category of so-called. early retirement. We have here, according to our assessment, two phenomena. First, it is a clear phenomenon that a certain group of women have estimated that they are more attractive to go into early retirement than to earn a certain level of pay. So, what they're going to get at home is probably afraid of some social events in the future that have defined them, which is their right, to go to early retirement. And I don't see why, if so far, why would they now be punished for their decisions that were made in a certain environment when they weren't expected to be this legal solution. The other thing is about early retirements that I would have warned about is the appearance of so-called early retirement. severance. Therefore, the impression is that employers were transferring a certain burden of crisis with their companies, so total from the economy to the burden of the state in a way that they stimulated early departures from companies, from companies with very high severances, so people calculated that under existing laws, the provisions that were at the time when they accepted such an option, with that category of money to survive until the first condition for retirement. And the mass of people went that way from the economy. Now they're at the Employment Service, so they're back on the burden of the state, and we're going to come into a situation where these people who found their own math to disband the employer and wait some 3.4 years for a pension, they're not going to be able to achieve that condition because there's simply no model for their retirement in this model as suggested here. Therefore, we think that here we should make a good analysis and make certain exceptions for such categories because I am not convinced that there has been a strategic commitment that companies give people a stimulating part of the funds to leave the company, apply to the employment bureau and wait for early retirement. And in conclusion, we believe that Article 3, which was spoken of by a colleague of the HSS, is related to the OPG holders, so mandatory insurance is prescribed for both holders and members of the agricultural holding. I would suggest here that it be for the members of the agricultural holding voluntarily, so any voluntary choice whether they want to be provided or not because we often have a situation that members of the CAP are members just because that form is fulfilled so that everyone can get a certain amount of land, and not the essence of being effective members of that OPG. Therefore, it is also necessary to take into account how much it accumulates, only the operations of the OPG in today's situation where the farmer is very difficult to cope, to oblige him and his four, five members to ensure that they are all mandatory pension insurance. Therefore, it is all something to think about and therefore we are extremely pleased and welcome the decision of both the prime ministers and the Government to discuss this legislative proposal in other readings, to open up a new position for talks with all interested partners, with social negotiators, and that this very sensitive topic is arranged in a more quality way, that we are all satisfied in some way, and that the system works at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58056	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58057	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is already much said about these amendments to the Pension Insurance Act but several of my thoughts and essentially the data we received in the material prepared by the Ministry as a basis for a proposal to amend these laws. The basic reasons for the amendments to the law are clearly visible precisely from this material because the number of insurance companies in 2008 gradually declines so that, on 31 December 2008, a million 604 thousand insurance companies were recorded, and a year after that, a million 530 thousand, which is by 4.6% less than in the previous year. The number of pensioners, contrary to the number of insurance companies, is growing by increasing from a million 148 thousand 31.12.2008 to a million 172 thousand after a year, 2.1% more than in the previous year. This also results in a deficit in the financing of the pension system at the level of the year, so this year we plan a deficit of 17 billion kuna to finance pensions, and I remind you that the total deficit of the state budget is planned for 2010 13 billion kuna. So far less than the pension deficit. This is why, as well as all other moments in the current economic and financial situation, the Government adopted in May of this year and presented the Programme of Economic Recovery in which, among other things, the problem of financing pensions has been addressed, so it is stated among other things, that the revision of pension systems will be carried out under special conditions, their reduction, and the preparation for the gradual abolition of certain categories. And secondly, it is important that preparations will be made for introducing changes in the pension insurance system. The implementation of one part of this first measure is achieved by the adoption of the Pension Reduction Act, which is reached under specific rules in pension insurance. We know that pensions of more than 3 and a half thousand kuna since 1 July of this year are reduced by 10% and will then continue to carry out activities in the context of this project. The second measure in pension insurance implemented under the Pension Insurance Act provides for one: the gradual harmonisation of the legal age for retirement and early retirement for women. And under two: amendments to the rules for going to early retirement, i.e. a reduction in early retirement. Everything we've heard from both the minister and the presentation means a club representative. In addition to trying to save in this way certain funds, expenditure in the state pension budget should be thought of, of course, another way to increase revenues, or as well as to increase the charge of pension funds, which is possible of course or higher wages and employment or employment, which I think is one opportunity for us in the coming years to take advantage of. A whole series of programmes should also be implemented in the first place by the economy ministry as well as other ministries aimed at new employment, increasing the number of employees. So what for? It is precisely because the majority of employees are more allocated to the Pension Insurance Fund and this deficit is thus reduced. I made one example, which would mean an increase in the number of employees by 10,000, 50,000, 100,000. Calculation based on gross salary 7500 kuna, and I remind you that the average gross salary in the Republic of Croatia for 2009 was 7711 kuna. It means slightly less than the average salary with a personal deduction coefficient one and an average 15% payment in the second column. So says this calculation to 10,000 new employees that a year in the first pillar would be more payment for nearly 150 million kuna plus 20 million kuna in the second column. At 50,000 new employees in due time brings 750 million kuna payments in the first pillar at year level and about 110 million kuna payments in the second column. And the most interesting thing, of course, and what I believe to be within a shorter period should also be the goal of 100,000 new jobs, new jobs brings a billion and 485 kunas a year in the first pillar and about 220 million kuna payments in the second pillar. Which means 100 000 employees over the year would receive a pension insurance system of 100 000 new jobs of 1.7 billion kuna in the state budget. I think that this should be set as one high goal and, in due course, right through all measures of the Ministry of Economy, other resolution ministries to increase the number of employees, which automatically brings significant funds to the state budget to finance the deficits that exist in the pension system. In the end, I believe it's a good thing that the prime minister on behalf of the government today suggested that this law go into two readings. We get everyone together in time and social partners, first of all unions and governments and we here in the assembly to offer through two discussions perhaps some new proposals, some new solutions that I believe the government and the Ministry of Economy will surely accept. It's obvious, in the end, that we all agree that we need reform of the pension system. I think this is exactly the beginning of a quality reform pension system which should ultimately reduce pension expenditure in the state budget, increase the number of employees, increase revenues for the financing of future pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58058	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58059	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I'm going to try to minimise my debate as far as this bill goes into second reading, so there will certainly be opportunities to discuss the text of the law. However, given that several times here today it has been pointed out that a broad debate should be carried out regarding these amendments and amendments to the law, I do not think that it should be and that I want first of all to stress that it is not about the pension reform that was carried out in '98. when a broad debate was held. I think that this debate that the government is having with the social partners means with all relevant social partners about this is certainly enough and should not be marred because in public it is often spoken and said that this is a pension reform. No, this is an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. Normally, this Pension Insurance Act and its amendments and additions stem from Croatia's economic recovery programme and those as such should normally be accepted and have a positive effect on one longer term. But what fundamental changes have been made since there have already been a lot of words here. Clearly, the age of men and women to retire is equal. The proposal is 65 years and a transitional period of 10 years. Where's the foothold now? Well, first of all, it becomes a rule in Europe, and most European countries have equalised age or are in the process of equalising it. Croatia would have reached an equal age of women and men to leave by January 1st 2020 unless otherwise agreed and reached an agreement with social partners means an early retirement. In addition, the European rule that I have mentioned is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted following the initiated procedure for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution of Articles 30 and 31, to remind the Pension Insurance Act, where normally the Constitutional Court obliges Croatia to respect labour equality in the exercise of the right to pension insurance. The Constitutional Court did not even have a dilemma when it made such a decision, because of it, it was normally governed here by laws already regulatory and legal applicable in the Republic of Croatia, which is the Law on Gender Equality, which was adopted in 2009, then here the Constitutional Court also took into account the national policy for the promotion of gender equality that was implemented from 2006 to this year and normally took into account that pension system development strategy that was adopted in 2003. I will also point out that the European Court of Human Rights has also examined infringements of Article 14 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, relating to a different age and confirmed the justified equalisation of age for retirement for women and men. That's the first part. The second part that changes is the starting factor for early retirement, from current 0.15 to 0.34%. And when we talk about that starting factor, he didn't fall from Mars, these 0.34, but that's it, that's the actoric accounts of justice calculated. And so that's exactly that increase from 9% to 20.4% by five years before retirement means this adjustment on the average of pension income, those who go five years earlier to retirement with those who go to regular retirement. In addition, it is important to stress here that normal and increased pensions will be made for those who stay longer than their retirement pensions, precisely for this value I mentioned here that as some call it, they will penalize the early departure of early retirement, or early retirement. And now what is the goal of these measures? So the aim of these measures is to keep the insurance company as long as possible in the employment relationship, to pay contributions and thus reduce the cost of pensions, since it is logical that the lower costs of the pension system will also have a positive impact on the overall economy. I believe it is not particularly necessary here to stress the state of the pension system. It is clear to all of us that it is difficult, that it is at the limit of endurance, and that this is why these changes are an necessity that should be accepted normally in Croatia. The number of pensioners, purely for statistics to remember, is with 31 August of this year a million 191 thousand 137 retired, and the number of insurance companies is a million 536 thousand 944, and that is exactly the ratio of 1.29 to one, and logically that such a ratio is unsustainable, it destroys the pension system and it is logical that these necessary, these changes are necessary. Lately, there have also been various controversys about what should be the basic condition for retirement, whether work experience or years of age. The peace systems of most countries around Croatia, as well as members of the European Union, are based on this, for years of life. And that's like a basic condition for their retirement, so I think that Croatia could have one, make a good combination between years of life and employment. However, the following facts must have an effect on that condition. The World Health Organization, which estimates the duration of life in Croatia every year, for this year, means for, for the past year, a pardon for 2009, it came out with the fact that the duration of life on average is 76.3 years in Croatia, for women 79.6 years, for men 72.9 years, which is normally a slightly lower average of life expectancy than in the European Union for some 3 years, but that life span is on a constant rise. I'll remind you that in '91. The duration of life in Croatia was 71 years, and this year, i.e. last year 2009, is 76.3 years. So life spans extend from year to year, and it's logical to also keep in mind that in some ways it extends the working life. So that years of life as a basic condition for retirement have a foothold for both Europe and the European countries, and so on in that part of Croatia. A few words about early retirement. I must say that the institute has left many European countries, and even the new countries of the former Yugoslavia, only those countries have Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina as an early retirement institute. Of the European states with which the Republic of Croatia has social insurance contracts only Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I have already mentioned, have retained the Institute of Early Age Pensions, while all other European countries have left the institute or have arranged it in another way. For example, Scandinavian countries have tied these early pensions to a certain degree of disability. So in some other way, it's determined. As for the reduction of pensions for those who leave early retirement, in the countries that now have the institute that I was just talking about, the reduction in pension rates ranged from 0.35% per month to 0.42%, except here I will stress Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has 1% for men and 0.5% for women at the annual level. But it's all in common, which is that it's a permanent reduction in pensions for those who leave early retirement. When we look at who our most frequent early retirement users are, i.e. from which the activities of the most workers go to that early retirement, then we have one interesting data, logically it would be to expect them to be some industrial branches, I apologize I have to finish, but I'm still a little longer, but here's just to get this over with. It is interesting that in Croatia, the early retirement is mostly due to financial and insurance activities. For example, the last five years have gone from a total of 39 thousand 973 insurance companies to 11,000 and 17 persons from that activity, which makes up a 30% circus of all. I'll finish with that because time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58060	We've got corrections. First Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58061	Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Kunst, in 1998 there was no broad public debate, contrary to what Mr. Kunst said. In 1998, she was promised unions a public debate in the fall, and the law was passed in the last term of the spring session, so in July of the month, so there was a complete public debate. Secondly, there is no actoric mathematics, there is actuarial mathematics, there are actuarial tables and there are actuaries who calculate it, I believe it's a lapus. And the third claim that years of life have their own retirement foothold is partly accurate. Nowhere in the world but years can be a condition for retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58062	Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58063	Thank you. A colleague Kunst said most of the European countries have evened an age or is in the process of equating, not exactly a colleague of Kunst. I have a table in front of me which is part of the European Commission's report, and it is nice to say that the age has not equalised either Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, Italy, neither Great Britain, Liechtenstein, Russia, Poland, Slovenia, and Hungary, etc., of 41 countries only 17. Not that it's not most, it's not even half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58064	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58065	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the government. I will also start with the documents of the Council of Europe which, when it comes to this Law, we are calling on, and today at this session, at these discussions, the minister mentioned in his opening statement. According to the 98th Council of Europe document, age equality means equal presence, power and participation of both sexes in all areas of public and private life. Birth equality is contrary to gender inequality and strives to encourage full participation of women and men in society. The directive, a directive of the European Economic Community, also allows for different periods of retirement for women and men depending on the situation in a country. In fact, positive discrimination between women is an instrument for achieving equality in situations where equal rules specifically affect women as a more vulnerable group. I believe you will agree with the finding that all differences, all inequalities, all subordinations, oppressions stem from social practice. Discrimination of social attitudes and stereotypes of so-called fixed roles of women and men. In this respect, equating the conditions for the right to pension between women and men would be justified if all conditions were met, all inequality of women in public and private life. And I share the opinion of those who say it would be quite right for women and men working under the same or similar conditions to exercise the same or similar pension rights. But unfortunately, gentlemen, we live in Croatia, and in Croatia, when it comes to the labour market, when it comes to conditions, and labour market behaviour, nothing in the work of men or women in Croatia is the same or the same. So I will repeat what I said on the Committee on Gender Equality this morning when I said that in fact this proposal to amend the law on pension insurance against women is actually a potential discrimination because although it is based on the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2007 which would probably make some ideal world make sense because we are all equal before the law, it does not in any case correspond to the Croatian Reality in which women are still in an unequal and discriminatory position. And especially here, I would like to point out that the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality are completely disregarded. This Law I remind you of colleagues and colleagues was first adopted in July 2003 and the second new, changed, improved, updated in 2009. This Law determines in one article the importance of special discrimination or specific measures, in relation to strengthening the position of women and their equality, because it is from a number of indicators, and we all get a report from the Ombudsman but from all relevant research carried out both from the level of state institutions and from the level of NGOs, from a number of indicators from the field of work and employment but from all other social spheres, it is clear that women in Croatia are in an unequal legal position and that it is necessary for them to at least try to improve their position and in this sense that this article stands in the Law on Gender Equality. I believe that just now the provisions on retirement for women have fallen under such a special measure because they respected the unfortunate fact that women are doing a double job. The one as formal as employees and the one "overtime" for which there is no salary, which is meant to be taken away from them the rest of their working days. The double burden of family and professional obligations that we bear without sufficient assistance from the social community is obviously not included in our formula of equality. According to some studies, women are on average working overtime and doing family duties for at least three hours every working day, and six hours on weekends and holidays. The market price for such unpaid work in the house is known but unfortunately is not included. And a network of financially available social services that would facilitate the position of family employees is insufficient, however, becoming weaker every day. When we talk about positions on the labour market, employment is rare, fortunate, which the potential employer did not ask about their parental or family obligations or intentions to call it, about their family status, about the number of children, about the age of children, about the intention of eventually having more children. Of course you'll all tell me it's not legal, it's not legal, it's not legal, but it's common, and we don't find any way to sanction something like that. Research conducted by the Institute of Social Sciences through a survey conducted among the unemployed, employers confirm that age and sexual discrimination on the labour market is the most present. And the latest lawyer's report this year on the agenda shows that women in Croatia are doing low-paid jobs, that they are more unemployed, that they are the first ones on the discharge list when they have a job, that they ultimately have fewer pensions. Those older women, let's also say that spent women on certain jobs, especially those with lower education, will be very easily fired, and under new provisions they will exercise the right to a miserable early retirement. The average pension for women today is 540 kn less than the average pension for men. And the average early retirement for women is 356 kn less today than it is for men. So unless they make that early retirement the only thing they can use is going to the Employment Service, but of course there will be restrictions. Today I asked on the Committee on Gender Equality of the Proposer Representatives, whether they did anything or thought to do or how they were going to solve the phenomenon that employers are, of course, dealing with workers in some difficult financial situation and getting rid of those older workers first, especially women over 55. That's what we don't have the answers to, or we'll have them. And then, of course, instead of rerouting the money to the opening of new jobs, those places that made those women or those workers will not be new employment, but the money will be rerouted to the Employment Office to pay them such fees. You are calling in the proposal to amend this law to the Constitutional Court's decision, and it states the European Court of Human Rights' position in such similar complaints, which says among other things that the change in the years needed for the exercise of the right to retirement must be gradual for the sake of its nature and that I quote "It is difficult and impossible to determine precisely some moment when injustice to men because of the different retirement ages has gone beyond the need to correct women's unfavourable position". I find this position extremely important and I want to say that I am sorry that the promoter did not interpret these provisions in this regard. In view of the unfavourable position of women in the labour market in Croatia, I do not think that it can be considered rightly a favourable moment to equalise old and early age provisions in the right to obtain a pension, so either during that period of 10 or a year more. Well, then I'm also asking a question to all of us, so why not, given the undeniable poorer position of women, let it be as so-called. a gradual period but not a retirement period, but above all what we need to equalise women's positions in view of a number of relevant factors such as work, such as employment, such as bribery, such as poverty, such as political sub-representation and inequality in decision-making, etc. I think I've counted quite enough. And why don't we, first of all, work on implementing the Law on Gender Equality, and in the proposal to amend the law, we refer to the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality and in the proposal to amend this law to delay the execution of women. As far as I'm concerned, it didn't occur to the proposer. So when it comes to equating ourselves in the years when we are going to retire, then we will call for decisions of the Constitutional Court and call for gender equality, and when it is necessary to enable full equality to be achieved in all areas, and even in the labour market where there is the greatest discrimination between women, then you all forget that equality together. I object, and I will be against the adoption of such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58066	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58067	Fellow Sobol, you and I have obviously prepared a lot of arguments today in your debate and brought against such a change of law and probably as I have prepared amendments. And then came the Prime Minister, and she said it was not an emergency but a regular procedure, and I expected that the Minister of Economy and Competitiveness was in line and explained the bill's proposal that as parliamentary deputies, we would be freed from the debate on a bill no longer valid and that they would inform us that they had agreed with the trade unions that the transitional period would not be 10 but 20 years by 2030 that the pension would be tied to the year of the internship, so that the men of 36 would have 0.36 per month, and after 40 and more 0.15. Women at 31 years of age at 0.34, and after 35 internships of 0.15, that famous retirement allowance will be installed in the pension system, not part of a special law. Now the Minister of Economy has not told the Croatian Parliament and announced the government's amendments in this direction why? Is it a wink or a government preparing more improvements in the law, so let's say they give up the whole concept of the law or pull out of the process. But don't let us discuss a law that's already passed all afternoon. Why are you making fools of us? You have to write amendments to the government's bill of law that must come to the Parliament because they agreed and keep quiet about it and you don't want to tell anyone. Where's the minister now to tell us if it's true that these arrangements have been reached and that the government is sticking to that deal with the unions? We're discussing this proposal, not this. Especially radical changes... but they're important changes. Secretary of State, please respond, is the union agreement reached or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58068	The amendments will be submitted when the second reading is made. Yes, you did, or you didn't. Mr. Kunst is also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58069	Well, fellow Sobol, all you said was that this wasn't the right time to equalize the years of men and women's lives would have been convincing on your part if you had had the same attitude when the pension system was being adopted in 2003, when the government was bringing it in. And when this is what I've already said not to repeat it 10 times, when in that strategy that you adopted on 4 June 2003 at the government where you said that by 2018 you should equalize the age of life to 65 for men and women. And then you said that after 2018, the retirement age for both sexes could be increased, I quote, to more than 65 years of life, e.g. 67 or 68 years of life. So it would have been a good thing if you'd just said that and said no, and in 2003, I don't think it was the same time. Believe me, I think it was the same bad time to go to such an equalization. This is until 2018, and this is until 2020 if it's not something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58070	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58071	Mr. Kunst, and that's my answer to all the other advocates who keep talking about strategy. So you should already know as a parliamentary representative that the laws passed in this House will be above one of the strategies that I have already said was passed, and you yourself said in June 2003, but already in July 2003 the Law on Gender Equality, which provided for the temporary measures that you, this Government, or this Parliament, have all confirmed together in 2009 and what are we talking about now? ... What are we talking about now? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, come on, colleague Kunst, please. I say, you've been sitting in these benches long enough to know, and besides reading all the opinions and opinions about that Constitutional Court decision, then you'd see that there are opinions publicly delivered, the biggest constitutional experts who think that the Constitutional Court, and I'm going to say it here, couldn't and should not put one strategy above some law that this House passed in 2009, or in 2009, respectively. And I will continue to advocate that it is hypocritical at the end of the line, hypocritically equating us women and men in years of retirement, while at the same time believing it is perfectly normal that women continue to bear the greatest burden of family obligations, that they are discriminated on the labour market in employment, in progress, in wages, in pensions. Tell me that's not hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58072	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58073	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. No Prime Minister, no Minister. Obviously, it's not the law and the bill they'd be proud of to present it to the public. We have to make tough decisions, the prime minister says, and that's what we're determined to do, she says. And yet when it didn't pass, under the pressure of the public, under the pressure of the union and opposition this still, such a legal proposal doesn't go into emergency procedure but first reading. But we here, personally and as you heard from Mrs. Zeljka Antunović's speech, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, we oppose this law because this is an unfair law and this law cannot be passed because it is not a law for Croatian citizens, it is a law against Croatian citizens. What's that about and what's the continuity? That's why I say there's really no place to be surprised because it's for HDZ bussiness as usual. In this area, the most primitive versions of the capitalists have long since given up the protection of true labour rights, fair compensation for the work done and the effective punishment of those who do not adhere to the rules of the game. We often hear here how it is in our environment, what it is in the countries of Western Europe. Is there an employer in Western Europe who doesn't pay his employee? Is there a case like that? In our case, it's a flood that started in the '90s when we wanted to contain it by passing the Penal Code of Penalty and Incrimination, precisely that such behaviour as an exceptional social danger would be punishable. HDZ is against it, HDZ is today against it. And out of that and out of work where he's not paid, where he's not paid for by an insurance worker, then he comes out later and the most sensitive period when he's already disabled, spent on retirement. In fact, labour rights have long been fiction and those on paper, and now it's the HDZ's struggle to defuse those formal rights and to abolish them. That's why this statement of people in the referendum, well-dominated, was well understood by HDZ that it was not only a struggle to preserve the achievements of the Labour Act but it was clearly shown by citizens that it was a struggle and resistance against the ruling set under which they additionally, in essence, were impoverished, where they were not able to, therefore, with the desert announcements of the implementation of reforms, that all of the god's reform procedures were essentially breaking their backs and that it was a deterioration of their situation. He says often the ruling and personal prime minister, so we need to secure the salaries, we need to secure pensions. Just like the employers say, we pay the worker. No one gives it to a worker, and no one gives it to a pensioner, but it's been taken from him. The worker earned it all, the pensioners earned it all, and that kind of money was supposed to be said on the lager, not to be in debt not now across Europe but on many continents every month, so that what was earned in Croatia was paid. It's an execution, it's such a defeat, so it's not just a defeat of the economic policy that the ruling conducts, it's a defeat of even the fundamental moral principles and justice of a society. And if Croatia is not a social state, if there is no country where workers' rights are protected, Croatia will simply not be. So is it clear to the rulers? This is our primary national strategic interest which is not taken into account and this fight that started here is being fought in other countries as well. Capital has been globalized, labour has to be globalized. That is why this is not just a fight between Croatian workers and Croatian pensioners within Croatia. Today, we will join Europe, it is our primary task, to internationalise and, above all, to europeanise this labour problem and to globalise employment in order to resist this way of national policy and national policies. This will certainly make our prospects for improvement more certain. But what is evident is obviously not clear to the Croatian authorities. She simply thinks that Croatian labour and Croatian pensioners are already so traumatized that they are in an apathetic state, unable to rebel. But that's not the way it is, and here they have their own spectacular and good examples in Europe, now in France. We know exactly what happened. Here today we heard from the mouth of Minister Popijac that it is simply not a sustainable situation, how many pensioners there are in relation to the number of employees, or vice versa. So who created this problem? Who chased the workers into the 30-year-old creative power, 40 years old, 50 years old. Just to get the tycoons to get the factories, not to start production, but to get their hands on the most valuable properties. And that's what you do today. So, you've created a nation on your own in retirement, retired. And now you're surprised. But otherwise, it's a speciality of HDZ, to create a problem and come and explore this same problem as if it had fallen from Mars. And they themselves are the creators, the realisers of that product, that problem. And those who have created a problem, who do not recognize that their work is their oil, but that they cannot come from somewhere, cannot solve those problems. It is known that out of a million 170 thousand pensioners, only 100,000 pensioners are full-time. But it's not people's fault. Well, they wanted to work. Do you think these pensions are big? Well, people barely live. It has been announced that they will even shrink the same from the ruling ones themselves and then they will not, because they are the first, you are the first trade unionists to defend these great salaries and pensions. Well, you should work to make it bigger! And what is this particular legal proposal that he's talking about? He's talking about further devaluement. It's not important to work. You can get a job in the '50s, because when you see how the job internship is calculated, then you will see that the job internship is not worth it, that it is still important, therefore, important to the ruling set of capital alone. It's a big protection of capital. We have seen that all of our legal proposals that come from the SDP have been formed in the light of many legislative proposals and have been rejected. And Mrs. Prime Minister keeps saying, "Give me a suggestion." So, protect the worker what a horror for this government, what a pain in the ass. And that's what's unfair. But it's a vision. This HDZ cannot come out of itself because it is the protector of capital, its capital is the golden calf to which it worships, and its worker is there and there to be happy, so to get such crumbs because what I'm saying is also corrupt in laws is not implemented at all or has any indication that these things could be improved. The latest injustice has just been done to women. So, when we see today's situation as a Croatian worker, then you think there's no poorer being. How does the Croatian pensioner live? You also think there's no poorer creature, but there is. It is a Croatian worker and a Croatian pensioner. How is it possible under severe physical conditions of 16 years, for example, to get a job. So, almost half a century of working age, 49 years in abnormal conditions. How much do you care about protection at work? Not all of them had opportunities, and even less in the future will have to be high schooled, to be employed there in the mid-twenty-fives, but mid-25s, 26s. Some have been forced to work for more than 16 years, and these will become more and more. Do you think it's possible for a textile worker to do 49 years so she can get that miserable full pension? And you are referring to the Constitutional Court's decision. And what was done to achieve such equality? What the Croatian government has done to balance the lives of men and women in that private life. When we proposed mandatory maternity leave for men, it was denied. So you're just mechanical. It's one mechanical copying. But of course, it should also be asked perhaps the male members of the Constitutional Court when they made this decision which did not follow in detail about it by fellow Sobol and it is not true that it is such a mechanical copying from the European Court of Justice because it is very elastic, it speaks of concrete occasions, about a concrete country, who ironed that judge's pants and shirt that day.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58074	We have the corrections first of all of Mrs. Gyurjkat's twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58075	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I will correct a few incorrect allegations that my colleague Ingrid said, among other things, that this government is the protector of capital, then that it is immoral, that it thinks that labor is irrelevant in this society, that the law is against Croatian citizens. Well, colleague Ingrid, I'm glad to see Mr. Linic here, so I'll read one of his statements from June 2001 that says the government will insist on amending the Labour Act regardless of what the small union heads think. And on 24 May 2001, it was his statement that too many labour rights interfere with the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the workforce is insufficiently flexible and difficult due to high protection. That's why the Labour Act needs to be amended. So they're disrespecting neither unions, and here are the representatives up there, and you've abolished collective agreements, and then you've changed the Labour Act nicely. This is exactly why you're speaking differently today. Why? You're collecting political points. Please, this government has left 170 million kuna in budget rebalancing for a possible referendum such as the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58076	Thank you. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58077	Thank you, Mr. President, so fellow Anticevic as usual instead of the Peace Law, you attack HDZ to destroy workers' rights. My colleague has already tried to make things right, and I'm going to remind you of the year 2003 when you weren't so socially sensitive and you can't say that HDZ is destroying workers' rights. It's this government, I'll remind you that you've cut the severances to the workers, so people at the age of 25 have received 14,000 kuna less severance when they left, that you've cut their cancellations by 50%, that you've shortened the duration of their unpaid maternity leave. Today, we also heard in the current morning that you also shortened labor hours after mandatory maternity leave. So it was all for the workers at the time. No, that was very damaging to the workers. It's hard to correct everything you destroyed when you had to sign with the IMF in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58078	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I am asking you, as if Mrs Anticevic was not a minister, when all the cleaning work was carried out, when it was sent into bankruptcy by hundreds of companies in Croatia, and only at that moment did this happen that was a major inflow in the retirement of people. That's what you did with your government and don't talk to the Croatian people this way about how you care about working in Croatia, you're the first to absolutely disrespect workers' rights because you showed it in your term. You sent an army, there the front and the police in front of the Parliament were under tents for months and protested. It's all been a while. And don't hesitate, the people of Croatia read you a long time ago, and as far as taking care of everything, leave it to others who can take care of people who unfortunately today, it's hard for them because it's recession time. You're happy to call on other countries, and I'm going to tell you what Germany is, nobody said today, what kind of Germany is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58080	Call me next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58081	She arranged that a woman who's retired, a working mate, a woman has a 5% lower pension if her husband is in a working relationship, that's not what you're going to say. And it is a developed democratic country that has more capital than Croatia. Therefore, enough of your adjudication, and don't speak of justice and justice, this is what your husband's attorney's house has shown recently.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58082	Thank you. Mr. Arsen Bauk was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58083	Mr. President, Honorable Representative Šolić has repeatedly injured Article 209. Rules of Procedure, she didn't say what she was correcting first. I suppose she was correcting the context, I listened carefully, the second one exceeded a lot more time than the government has time to correct these injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58084	Ms. zastica Bozica Šolić corrected in accordance with the general tendency to correct incorrect allegations in this House, not more or less. ... No, no, it's consistent with, so let's talk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And Mr. Ivo Grbic. Here you go, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58085	I would correct the incorrect allegations of colleague Anticevic who said that the internship is not worth it. On the contrary, the internship is just worth it, because people of the same age who go, who retire, if they have the same salary, and one is 40 years old, another 43 or 45, she will get more than that person who has less years of internship. Therefore, it is incorrect that the internship is not worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58086	Thank you. And we have one replica, Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58087	Dear colleague Marinović, I hope that I have fully understood your discussion and it seems to me that you are the passion for ruling in Croatia and the interest of capital have led to equality. If that's true, then I would ask your opinion whether it is in line with the INA announcements where a thousand 500 workers will be declared a technological surplus, and a thousand people will end up in early retirement. And in your opinion, it's an attempt to erase the memory of a company to make an extra profit easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58088	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58089	A colleague of the Hill, you're actually asking, but the answer is imposed by itself. Not because he would impose himself, which is normal, is abnormal, but it's so obvious. That's what started happening in the '90s, and what's happening now. I'm just in a hurry. That's the biggest problem. And that's the answer the ruling don't have. The ruling knows all well what happened from 2000 to 2003. In the '90s, they have no idea what's been going on, and it's been happening since 2003, and it's been going on since 2003, and it's just a lot of... and much more dangerous. [[You don't understand.]] We know the same thing, so here's what's being said, so not just the workers that are going to stay, we're going to lose the most valuable resource, they're real estate. So you remember how the thunder of the one who went, whose HDZ now worshipping here to heaven, stood up as if the deity were coming in, and now they don't even want to mention the name, which he was saying, which he was swearing, which passed the laws, propose laws on the right of the first purchase, on the protection of the land. So now it's selling state territory, land. In the largest, it's millions and millions and millions of squares, it's sold. And where is it, so where is your national consciousness? So it turns out whenever HDZ talks about patriotism, then it's the most suspicious, so we should ask how many zeroes they write their patriotism with.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58090	But my people, we've come to real estate, and they're not a rabbit, they're not going to run anywhere, they're going to stay in Croatia. Ah, Mrs. Dear Zgrebec, here you go. He'll stay in Croatia, he won't run away.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58091	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Since the urgency of this law has been lifted, I will in principle just say about this first reading a few sentences. In the light of the implications of the adoption of this law, it is said that a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on the gradual equalisation of women and men in the exercise of age and early retirement rights will then be made to encourage insurance companies to remain in the world of work for as long as possible, to increase the percentage of the reduction of early retirement pension for future users, to bring the Pension Insurance Act into line with in the meantime rules, and ultimately that those measures will also have positive effects on the financial stability of the existing pension insurance on the basis of generational solidarity. And if we go now to analyze the point by point of these consequences, we're actually going to see that little is going to happen. The Constitutional Court's decision was made on April 18, 2007, three and a half years ago, we did nothing for three and a half years, and now we wanted to do it all of a sudden since July, I don't know how much the government prepared it, but mostly in July, at the end of July, this bill was passed by the government, obviously there was not much debate on it because it had a lot of objections. Will the departure be reduced? Well, I'm sure not this year, because since the announcement of this law in just two and a half months, 18 thousand people have filed a request to go into early retirement fearing the very provisions of this law. Unfortunately, today the situation is such that the 18 thousand jobs that will be released will not come to the greatest extent of new employment. And in the end that these measures will have positive effects on the financial stability of the existing pension system, I am sure they will not be. Why am I so sure it won't be? It is precisely because the problem of the pension system with us cannot be solved by restrictions in the retirement pension system, by increasing the employment rate, but only by economic growth and the creation of new jobs. If that's true, I'll back it up with the statistics that came in, that's the report from the Retirement Office for 2009. We had a million and 530 thousand 233 insurance companies, which is 4.6% less than it was in 2008. At the same time, we had a million and 173 thousand 814 pensioners, which is 2.2% more than in 2008. We remembered that only in the first two months of this year, precisely because the remaining anti-recession measures had a major outflow from the world of work, nearly 20,000 people lost their jobs in the first three months of this year. This means that this year we will end up with an even smaller number of people who work and pay contributions and we will have no proportion of retirement. Here it was tried to correct an incorrect quote when it was most retired. I will read very briefly three sentences from this report, it says: "After the slowdown in the 2000 period. - In 2004 the last 5 years have increased the inflow of new pensioners who, due to the economic crisis and increased unemployment, were the most pronounced in the second half of 2009. In 2009, a total of 56 thousand 970 pensioners, 28 thousand 649 old and early age, 13 thousand 199 disabled, and 15 thousand 182 family members, increased by 4.75% compared to the previous year." So, already that few data actually says if we don't have measures that will increase economic growth, which will create new jobs. Increase wages and therefore actually increase the inflow into the pension fund we will never solve the problem of pensions. Since in the last two years, this year may be even more pronounced, we have a pension contribution that covers a circus of 20 billion kuna, one year more, another year something less, for total pensions we need to allocate somewhere from 33 to 35 billion kuna. So if we don't solve this problem then no reform, no restrictions on pension insurance will solve the problem. This has already been observed in 1999, or in 98, laws were passed when we said we had to solve the system of generational solidarity and introduce the 2nd and 3rd pillars. In 2002, contributions were introduced to the 2nd pillar, so what is the personal savings of the pensioner, at the height of 5% and 8 years, we did nothing. Soon, the retirement of the people who entered as voluntarily as possible in the 2nd pension column, their pensions will be even lower than these people who are going to pick up the so-called. Generational solidarity. It's an unsustainable situation, that we've had such a stalemate in pension reform, that now we're in a situation where we... react and intervene in the law, we're just making bigger problems in the pension system itself, and it comes down to the fact that we have different conditions for people to retire from year to year. I'm going to say in 98, this pension-reduced coefficient was 0.3%, 2002. 0.34% until 2007. In 2007, because of the need for a coalition and several votes in parliament, it fell to 0.15, we are now back to 0.34 and then we are not discussing what needs to be stimulated. Should we stimulate years of life and then give bonuses after 65 years for those who work over 65 years or we will stimulate that people work the longer they work and the longer they invest in a pension fund. There's no dilemma for me here. It is likely that people should be stimulated to work early, immediately after schooling, but it should be possible for them to have jobs where they will be employed and to work as long as possible, and not to say, given the minimum retirement period of 15 years, they can start working at 50 years, and work up to 70 years and 5 years will be stimulated, and if they work up to 60 years of life, they will have 40 years of work experience will be punished for those 5 years less. So, in fact, it takes a lot more to discuss it, especially when it comes to equating years of life to retire women and men, to appreciate this transition time, to appreciate the time when women worked in 3 shifts, not men, because three shifts were done in the textile industry in the plants, and in 90 percent of the cases were women. You even have the opinion of one of the constitutional judges who says that there is still a need to understand what gender equality and gender equality is about our Constitution and that it is possible to respect the so-called positive discrimination when it comes to years of life when women retire or when men retire. So there are a lot of questions that we haven't received an adequate answer through this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58092	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58093	My colleagues and colleagues, despite my efforts, have not been able to find out exactly what the Government would want, why it went into proposing amendments to the Pension Insurance Act for several months now and even talked about some kind of reform or quasi reform of that system and then appeared before us with a draft of a law in which three or four amendments were made which, as I have heard as well as my colleague Lesar, are no longer held by water, because all these institutes that are changing already in agreement with the trade unions have been significantly changed, so that it can really turn out that we are talking here about something that is over-tasting or that has nothing to do with what is really going to be done. But it further leads to asking the question and to doubt the real motives of proposing such a law. In fact, what the minister has publicly declared as a motive or reason for making these changes is an alleged promise that in the measures the government has taken for economic recovery something, which we have heard from the prime minister today, something will have to be done with that pension system. Come on... see what you can do and do something. But something can't and can't be anything. And what was given here as a proposal is exactly anything. The fear that has prevailed among people because of the obvious deterioration of their social position and that now or in the short term, so much more and in some future, it is entirely justified. Not just because it's proposed here, but also how it's proposed. Namely, to propose solutions that will then give up, to propose an emergency procedure, and to give up talking about total confusion and chaos in the proposing heads and that they actually do not know what they want and what they want to achieve with this. If the objective is to consolidate state finances listed here as one of the possible outcomes that are wanted here, none of these proposals and solutions simply has anything to do with it. This is about solutions that should have their financial effects in 10, 15, 20 I don't know or 126 years. In 2003, such as here on several occasions as an alibi, it served as part of the newly formed Office for the National Strategy of the Croatian Government a document made by a group of experts, some of the co-authors sitting here today in the hall, a group of experts without interference or any influence by politicians in defining these strategies. The strategies are designed for 21 areas because the worst situation is a non-conceptional situation in which the head is and in which anything is done in principle push pull pull when someone presses you to add or subtract something. Was that a good concept of making these strategies, by hiring a thousand 600 experts as I recall? That's another question. Is it even good to have 21 strategies? And that's the question we discussed then. So, we got a document that the profession had set up, watch out now, set up a vision and the principles of a new pension system for a longer term. This strategy is based on calculations on the budgets of projections of what could happen and when it comes to demographics, when it comes to economic movements, global processes, etc. as far as possible and as visible. Within that strategy, different possibilities are always mentioned in the Condicional, and among other things it is assumed that the life span of people will extend to not knowing 90 or 100 years even etc. and possible solutions are proposed for such situations. To clear up once and for all that the government of Ivica Racan, in which I was a member, wanted to even the age of retirement of men and women, she would do so in law. Governments pass and prepare laws. She didn't do it. The government I was a member of decided to solve, say, a serious pension debt problem at the time and solved it. After being created by the HDZ governments in the '90s and what cost all the possible reforms after 2003, my question now what's this all about? In fact, where do you go back to that 2003 strategy? If you're going back to her on what principle does she have to, which one isn't? Namely, the first principle on which the strategy is built says that "the peace system must ensure the economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia an appropriate level of social security for the population in case of age, disability and death of family members". That's the first principle. Somewhere as the 8th principle is also said that the pension system must be sustainable and must contribute to economic development. Such principles or goals can indeed be done, but seven years of failure of the pension system were seven years. 11 times in 10 years has been changed or 11 years since '99. Pension Insurance Act. Seven years seven times. In those seven years and seven times there have been seven disturbances of the entire pension insurance system. Best example, in 2007, you're making a solution that pensioning early retirement pensions has been reduced to two years after that you're going with that solution again, so 0.34% instead of 0.15%, holding that circumstances have changed, that something dramatic in that sense happened that wasn't known ten years ago, which simply isn't true. The ratio of insurance and pensioners is a painful question that arose as a product of those cataclysm when Croatia was defended and created in the '90s, when robbery policy led people to retire and that the ratio of 3:1 from the '90s, in favour of employees, led to almost 1:1. If I didn't get into the measurement of your proposals because your colleagues talked a lot about it, I just want to say, I'm not going to mention this with women because it's not 25 shares plus 1 26%, it's not that kind of math, it's kind of an account. Here, apart from financial reasons, there are some social and social reasons that talk about not changing circumstances in which women really work socially, beneficial work not only through domestic affairs but also through caring for family, for children, for older ones who will not lead to savings but if they are forced to work for five years longer that we will have so many fewer guardians, so much less nurse, raiser, etc. It has its own price that will prove to be financial. And what I was talking about, there's a gentleman from the Pension Insurance Office that I appreciate. Supposedly, he didn't master the solution to stimulate staying at work after 65 years. Our goal is to work until 65, not after 65. So it's really not a proposal that would in any way correspond to any value or principle that we're defending here. Work can be a blessing, it can be a blessing, it can have a liberating, self-performing character, but originally even the notion of working in Greek asholia means freedom. The Russian slave I think is associated with slavery and freedom. Working in capitalist conditions is pressure and burden and struggle for existence. My time is up, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58094	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58095	Dear fellow Vidisic, this is not a catch and I cannot accept your qualification that this is a catch because we are discussing an original, serious and dangerous intention of the government. So we're discussing this, it's the only document available. I can also speculate on the basis of information and half of the information that the government has agreed with the unions or has not agreed, but this is the only document we are discussing. We have the right and obligation very passionately, very gallantly, if necessary, to discuss very well what we have on the table. We hope that with this debate, too, we will contribute to the change of this part. And secondly, please don't use the term to break the law in 2007. Some injustices have been rectified and early retirement and minimum pensions have been brought in in a much more favourable social situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58096	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58097	Well, Mr. President, my colleague Vidovic is wrong about how many times the SDP government has solved the debt problem for the pensioners. First of all, the debt was created at wartime when we all got paid barely to survive, that's one thing. But I understand my colleague because he has repeated this lie so many times that he himself began to believe in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58098	Thank you. Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58099	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here are colleagues Hrelja and Markovanovic who corrected two incorrect allegations, and I'll look back at this one that it's a complete confusion with the promoter. It's not true, it's not a confusion, it's a responsibility to consolidate the pension system. But to me, my colleague Vidovic, it seems to me that you're having confusion because you're kind of polymizing with yourself. Whether or not a strategy was needed. I see this as a certain confession to you here to women, especially because what you did to women nurses, reduced their wages, birth benefits and all other rights, and we as Christians forgive you, but we will not allow you to make any more mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58100	Correction, Mrs. Susana Bilic Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58101	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Vidovic, who at one point said that these changes raise doubts about the government's intention to pass this law. You have no doubt in the Republic of Croatia at this time that there are a million 187 thousand 509 pensioners per million 532 thousand 633 workers, you have no doubt that 17.5 billion deficits of the pension fund that are being settled from the state budget. And speaking of suspicion, you remind me of the year 2002 when you were exactly as you said the Minister of Labour and Social Care in the Government of Ivica Racan and when you introduced the second pension column that I was in under the law of that time, without being 40 years old, you had to enter. But how can we trust you today when you didn't have faith in the second pension column, even though you had a high salary at the time, and later you didn't trust that pension column, and today you're speaking incorrectly. There is no doubt here, I support all the arrangements the government is making with the unions to improve this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58102	We also have one replica, Vice President Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58103	My colleague Davorko Vidovic asked himself a question that I have asked myself many times, which are the real reasons, which are the real motives that made the government go into these very partial procedures in a very complex and difficult time system. There's a lot of things going on. He also mentioned here today in the Parliament of fellow Vidovic whether it was because of some of these and such interests of large capital, so INA was declared surpluses, so severances, etc. If it is the interest of such people, then it is precisely that those who protect the interests of capital would get rid of their surpluses without sacrificing part of their profits and paying their severances. Because by creating a story about how the conditions for retirement will deteriorate, the government has cited an extremely large number of people who would otherwise have been declared surpluses and may have received a severance fee themselves for the pension, and in that case there is no severance. Maybe that was a motivation, too, even though that's what I'm talking about loudly. I don't dare believe that this could really be the government's real motive. There was a word, a word like that, a word that might sound a little rough. I also think it's a rough word for fellow Vidic, but it's really inexplicable what we're discussing today when it's clear and they're sent again as balloons of a message that the government is actually going to give up all these solutions that she's listed here. And one of the key solutions is the date of application of these laws 1.10. Go to the constituencies and you'll see that they keep ringing. And now they're calling the citizens and they're asking whether you're going to bring it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58104	Thank you. Mr. Vidovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58105	... about the example of the god-given mother allegedly took a child and put it above the window like this. [[Specially enabled.]] You see how your mom loves you, so she won't throw you away. We've heard so many stories this summer about the harsh austerity measures. For months people were afraid that their pensions would be taken, that their wages would be taken, that they would be taken away. And then as the deus eh machina appears a rescue government that tells you what's wrong with you people. It's not gonna happen. We are the ones who care, who are social and imagine the psychological effect of those who already thought that without it they would remain grateful to those who did not throw them out the window. Same in this case. First of all, it's a practice we've been seeing for years. They've been doing it for years. First they announce sharp measures, sharp cuts. Then either give up the debate when balloons are sent and when it's seen that it's not going or it's simply breaking the law. I think last year I counted some 17 or 18 laws that were passed and withdrawn when the public reacted. It's that philosophy and policy push, push. If he presses me, I'm pulling back. If he's going, if he's not going, he's not going. It's the philosophy of this government and that's what I'm afraid of because it can't take a serious and responsible state and solve serious problems. It is not possible to cultivate new and actually deepen existing problems by God’s correction of some problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58106	It's Mr. Representative Slavko Linic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58107	I thank Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Although I estimate that the evolution of this law, the data that has been provided to us to support why we are passing the law is not good enough, they are not saying enough and should have been far more serious because the Law amending the Pension Insurance Act is obviously a very important thing for these papers, these figures still meant something easier for us to decide. But since today is still a fundamental topic that led the government, then I would like to say that it is really impossible to determine. This material clearly states what government measures were for economic recovery and is said to have been: the revision of pension systems acquired under special conditions was partially implemented. And second: the government will make preparations for introducing changes in pension insurance. The government will prepare certain measures. I'm sorry, we didn't get the measurements. We didn't open a debate about those preparations. We haven't opened conversations that need to be changed, because these would be approximately government preparations. No, we got the law. The law certainly isn't preparing for a change. So something else has caused us not to discuss government measures for economic recovery today. And that's something that's causing us to doubt, mistrust about the government's intentions. And now we're going to read these humble figures that you've given us as an elaborate to discuss this law. So you're saying that only the problem in the last two years is the growth of the number of pensioners and the ratio of the number of pensioners and the number of employees is a problem and that's why we're changing the law. Now I'm asking you if it's possible that 1.37 retired workers who were two years ago or today one full and twenty-two pensioners, pensioners, are such a problem that has escalated in two years. Well, I'm sorry, it's inconclusive. Because it's obvious that three years ago with 1.37 retired workers, we couldn't maintain retirement insurance. We couldn't. That's a fact. So that's the problem we've been dealing with the whole transition period since the 1990s when out of 650,000 pensioners jumped to 900,000. It's a problem, but it doesn't happen in the last two or three years and it can't be the reason we're discussing it. In the last three years, this number has obviously been worse than it was three years ago. But let's try to ask ourselves, with 80 or 90,000 more unemployed at the Bureau, which would have been if these people hadn't entered the pension system. So how much would we have at the Employment Office? How much? 100,000 people. And just people were forced to go into early retirement. So let's try to ask ourselves what's the problem. Yeah, we'll hear from our colleagues the problem is the global crisis. Well, that's not true. The problem is that the Croatian government had no measures to react to the Croatian economic crisis, how to react to job preservation, how to help the economy strengthen its exports by active measures. Yeah, that's the problem. How to replace investments in road construction with investments in energy, because we need both electricity and gas, and oil, and oil derivatives, how to react to the opening of new investments, new jobs. How by modernising the railroad, safe railways, brand-new and tow lines, and I would tell cars, wagons, basically to open investments and jobs. Yeah, there was no answer, and then that's a solution, three years without measures in the economy, we have information that we're running 20,000 people into early retirement, and 80 to 90 grand is registered to an office. That these are problems that did not arise from the pension system, but from the inaction of the Croatian government, especially in the period from last summer to today. We don't have these measures, we don't have that economic momentum, and we don't have that incentive for the Croatian economy. But the more tragic the figure is, so we estimate there are no 15 billion kunas. There are no 15 billion kunas, because we're so nearly missing from year to year for this kind of pension insurance imbalance. But let's remember, we've had offers since the SDP changes, we've reduced the burdens on health contributions to pay, and we give the pension system. The truth is we've been estimating at that time that we should go to the second pillar, but if there's this kind of failure, so many shortages of funds in the generation column, then let's try to figure out that we have to make some changes here. Yeah, but that's the problem. If we take off the medical pole, where to find the health care money. What do we say? So find him in taxing the rich, those who have more to participate in the insurance of health funds through I would say a new property tax system that will be fairer and will seek the contribution of those who live more easily in the Republic of Croatia. And then comes the worst, why I think the government isn't social. According to these data on page three, please nicely, say those who go to early retirement you simply have an average pension somewhere around a thousand 937 kuna. Now we're wondering if it's enough money for someone to live off that pension. No, that's pure data. It's not enough money. We are aware that most people leave early retirement and below 2,000 is the average of their income. So basically after work, we create the poor. And now it's our move because there's no money in the pension system. Not so much new contributions to solving our imbalances, providing extra money, but our proposal here today is to re-enlarge the penalization rates for those who go earlier. Let's make these people even poorer. Yeah, it's a message from this law. Also, the women we're convinced of, who worked in three shifts, which they did, I'd say the job internship and the family internship, won't wait 65 years, and they'll go to early retirement. What is their average when we hear that their average is even 300 kunas smaller than men. Is that what we're worried about? Do we estimate that one government can propose a law in which it believes that for the disorder in the pension system, the problems of the pension system we bring down to those who have lived from work and who will not be able to live from their pension. And let's just accept the interpretation of these numbers. And how much of that pension and how much more of it we're going to penalize and make it even bigger, I'd say a bunch of people from work who won't be able to survive a pension like this. And just because we're not aware of where we've created problems, because we don't know how to increase our annual GDP, which we don't know how to create investments, which we don't know how to create jobs, which we simply don't know how to increase the number of workers because it's obviously one of the solutions. And of course another solution to how other taxes solve the health system, and part of the health contributions to move to retirement... Yeah, we've been offering solutions for two years, two years ridiculed, and now we should raise our hand to create new poor people. [[You don't understand.]] Not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58108	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The proposal that the Government has today, in some way, retarded against public pressures, opposition, first-reading unions, is actually one of the possible ways to react to negative trends in society in the crisis. Of course, the roads and possibilities are much higher, and when the government comes into a situation to lead one non-consistent, strategic undefined policy, when it leaks to all sides, when budget policy collapses, when it can no longer withstand the burden of all those promises, sinacura, and everything it has promised, and has shared in the meantime, then it comes into a position where when it is still being garnered by a sharp economic crisis, it is called global or Croatian anyway, in which the opposition and the unions and the public are trying to point out that the emperor is naked. And then the government miraculously wonders when on all sides, not only are attacks coming, but every interested group burys as much as possible to preserve its earlier acquired positions. This does not happen to governments who know what they want, who have strategically clear goals, who have a defined development policy, which they hold in the hands of the leverage of development, who can manage them and who have control of the process. It doesn't happen to such governments. Such governments don't touch any attacks from the opposition, from the unions from the public, because they're successful. We have come into a position that we have created a society in which work is not a top value, it is not one of the most important values that we teach ourselves and our children, we have put ourselves in a position that we are a society in which we do not work, the longer you do, the less you will have, so it seems about that message that we consciously or unconsciously as a political establishment and as a society we send to younger than ourselves, which is the key thing, whether we are able to build, define an economic model in which we will work with honor and in which we will be paid to work. In which no one will mock anyone because they work, where early retirement will not be a misery and trouble because there is no way out or actually a line of less resistance. But when you've been running politics for years, which in old Croatian would say "trinken halbe, halbe Scharatz geben", and then you take a little for yourself and then you give yours a little bit and then a little bit of one, then a third social one, and then one, another, a third interested group, mostly those who are interested in you as a political elite, we get 7 years of growing a soap balloon that's now disintegrated and showed that there was no oxygen in it to breathe. Now we can gnaw about all of these four changes as much as we want, we will not find a solution economically sustainable because it is not in the pension system. It is clear as a day that he was in crisis, it is clear as a day that the 99th reform in its modification could not end up responding to challenges and problems because it was not followed by the country's economic development. And as it will follow her when social policy has allowed thousands and thousands of people from conversion and privatisation to retire, thousands and thousands of defenders in the strongest and highest stages of life and strength to retire and to lead people to flee to retirement because they see it as the only salvation from the threatening retirement that is being entered here. Why? Because they have a concrete experience, they know that it existed before 2007, and it's not hard to calculate, math is clear and loud and says, let's say that a man who goes into early retirement at 20.4% of penal height will have a difference of 708 kuna compared to going under the existing law, a woman will have 649 kuna less, according to the criteria for going to early retirement. And, of course, everyone counts, at a time when 100 kunas look big how much the house is better to go, it's better to run away. And what did we do? We didn't just disrupt this relationship that is now and desperate, the relationship of those who work and who are retired, but we actually had intellectual capital for 20 or 30 years completely immobilized and sent into retirement, these are people with experience, with knowledge, those are people who already have jobs. And the economic crisis does not allow for new employment. So it's all about what kind of economic policy the government is running, and if she thinks that penalization will be announced in advance in a way that scares people to contribute to economic recovery, it's extremely naive and possibly even rude. Because the effects are just the opposite. Who can believe the government's good intentions if the effects are like this. It's a good thing the government gave up why because she admitted two very important things, that she was told for months that it was bad, and that she didn't want to hear it, and now she finally wants to hear what others have to say, and the other thing is whether she's going to hear it. And secondly, what was one of the most important remarks that she did not open social dialogue now must finally end. It is obvious that the government is weak and incompetent, now afraid of everyone's shadow, everyone's threat and high voice are now rocking the government, not Mr. Seks, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But it's such a time, it's clear as a day, after seven years of such a policy we couldn't even finish anywhere else, I hope the government as the promoter of this law realizes that there's no salvation if you stick only one nail in the sole of its shoe, it's over, the government is slipping and the sooner the elections will be, the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58110	Thank you. Three corrections and one replica. First correction by Mrs. Representative Gjurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Vice President of the Parliament. On a number of alleged allegations, Mr. Beus, but in your style, of course, what I would like to say is that the government is weak and incompetent, that it's scattered like a balloon because there's no oxygen to breathe, that it's socially insensitive and that it gives everyone, a little social, little interest groups. I'm glad you said that, but because I'm going to remind you under number one that this government is very socially sensitive is very much listening to what the people are saying and what the unions are saying, in contrast, that I'm not going back in those four years when no one listened but they've been very nice and they've moved on, so we've paid 5 billion kuna. As for your honesty and your wonderful, it's... with 39 million kunas, so it was on TV, so no one is... not those 39 million kunas, but aunts in kindergarten who don't get paid for it, so you didn't answer and then you didn't talk about it. And if the government were indecisive, look, the most indecisive is Mr. Zoran Milanovic, who calculated for 5 days whether to approach the unions or not, and then saw Dimitri Popovic's muse and signed and said that, that he should, we should support the unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58112	... Mr. Markovanovic. ... [[Speakers speaking in the same voice do not understand.]] Saloma, wear your head on the tray of St. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ivana. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58113	So here's to correct my colleague that the balloon hasn't been in the last seven years, but the balloon broke in late 2003 when it was found that just a handful of employees in engineering companies of your party boss got huge jobs, it assigned itself, huge jobs to its firm to make sure that instead of hiring, the government produced bankruptcy. Finally, the vice president of the government was called Slavko Štečako, the press not us. So therefore, gentlemen, darlings, how much you've hired and what a balloon you've been, and I think you become aware of all the time, you believe something and you believe it's not true. So you give the information and it'll be easier for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58114	Thank you. And Madam Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Beus, I'm going to quote what he said in his debate, "When the government comes into a situation where budget policy breaks down, it leaks everywhere that it doesn't happen to a serious government." You see, my colleague Beus doesn't hold this water for you, if it were true, and if that were the case then this government certainly wouldn't be able to pay for regular pensions, wouldn't be able to pay regular wages, wouldn't be able to pay birth benefits. And as far as skating is concerned, you weren't in office when your political party, which was then in power in 2003, glided headlongly, but not all the Shostari in Croatia could put nails in her shoes as quickly as you slipped away. That's true. And do not rejoice that you will be at the helm of the state of Croatia again, whatever you do, and whatever you do in the congregation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58116	Replica, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58117	Dear fellow Beus, you mentioned social policy in your presentation, but I must draw attention to you that the pension system is a dominant pension insurance system, although it is very important to respect certain social institutes that are based on solidarity and reciprocity embedded in the pension system. However, I must say that this is primarily the category of the lowest pension. It did not retire until 2002 to 2007 in exactly the way it was proposed, and penalisation or punishment was reduced in 2007. I don't need to tell you much about it, because we've talked a lot today, but tell you how much this pension is affecting the minimum pension institute, especially if it's about that desirable 40-year job experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58119	I thank my colleague Hrelj for this opportunity to say some more information. How many I know about 150 thousand people use in this category the lowest pension with an average pension of about 334 kn. And the penalization not only brings them to the brink of dignity, it sends them deep below the edge of poverty. 'Cause a thousand and eight hundred and forty-five grand has been calculated by the poverty line. At least I'd like to see the one in this Croatian Assembly who will confirm that they can live on a thousand 845 kn. And as for everything we've heard about husbands, artists, colleagues of the Temple of Politics of this government, it has led to her being more unsustainable. And all those who try to show in any way that the emperor has a lot of clothes on him, will have to face the fact that he is naked very, very soon and has never been more naked than he is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58120	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58121	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues are not yet so late, and I hope our attention serves us much. I'm gonna figure things out, but I'm gonna do it again, see where the problem is. I can first conclude that the processes that Croatia has been going through over the past 20 years are inevitable monsters and the consequences of war, is privatisation, is globalisation, is now recession. All this together is caused by the labour market verse, and no pension system in the world can stand it. If we start with those settings, then we could talk a lot better. However, there were not only accidental and unintended damages here. In this whole process and even wandering, are we going to have social cases, whether we're going to keep and upgrade the pension insurance system, whether we're going to benefit from certain structures or we're going to favour others less, especially the spread of the spilling from the hollow to the empty, or take the one who worked most and give the one who did a little less work to make everyone happy. But it's a serious threat to the pension insurance system and we have a problem with the following nature at the moment. I'll try the simplest words. In the same basket, in the same bag, under the same criterion, we put three categories that are impossible to define with one criterion. In the same basket we put those who leave early because they lost their jobs and are unemployed on the labour market. In the same basket we put those who lack years and years of life to retire, so those who wish for 40 years, but unfortunately put those who miss only years of life and have 42, 41, 43 years of internship. That's the problem. So I guess we are so, are we so serious, are we so capable that based on the calculation, based on actuarial mathematics, based on something that we would have to design that it's desirable in this society we can differentiate these three categories from one group of pensioners. It's much better than talking like today at this plenary session about some countries abolishing early retirement. No, it is up to the Philistines to determine these differences and recognise one who has more training and more contributions to have greater scope of rights. Of course, after all that some of these funds ended up being redistributed to those who were not fortunate enough to work in a well - paying job and to receive regular contributions from the employer. I would also give my contribution to an undetectable subject of equality between men and women. If you look at the website of 33 bulletins of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and compare it because you will only find information about last year for early retirement and is not for early pensioners because they have a lot of internships, there is not such a small average of which is spoken by a colleague Linic, but it is not enough for some wonderful life. But you'll see something else that's much more interesting and my colleague, Mrs. Gordan Sobol, will probably be interested. And that's that in retirement, the difference between women and men is 12%, and the difference in pension is 27%. In early retirement, the difference between men and women, or women, is 13% lower, but have a pension of less than 27%. And in disability pension, the difference in internships is only 8%, but the difference in pensions is 22%. This is the result of a long-term payment of contributions. This means that women in continuity were less paid for their work, regardless of the cost of calories or brain swings, but this is the inconclusive evidence of women's bribery, and now we want to extend that agony, that bribery. The cheaper the work, the longer the labour market. I don't think it's fair to women, I think there's a lot that's been said about our worldview, about our customs, and that they should be incorporated into this story, and if we have to, then the transitional period for actual equalization must be at least 20 years. What is also important to say, and it has been debated about the government's original intention, I think it is legally unacceptable that insurance companies who exercise pension rights in the same calendar year do so by two different regimes, especially when it is more unfavourable for them. Amendments to the Pension Insurance Act must in no case be passed since 1.10, nor will they, but they must not since 1.11. This proposal for 1.10 was presented through public information funds and caused serious damage to both insurance and society as it led to a wave of requests for early age peace. One should also answer because if we are a legal state, it is not technically possible, even if at a session of the Parliament, if the amendments to the law were passed today, then it would be impossible to enter into force on 1 October. So by pushing it into the law that it will enter into force on October 1st or November 1st, we make one mistake because in the same calendar year, we place one right in a different legal position. It's no problem when we increase the scope of rights, I remember doing it in April 2004, I remember doing it in July 2007, but every time there was an increase in the level of rights or all pensioners or individual structures of pensioners. Here we have a proposal for a reduction of rights and it is not correct that someone is going to have that condition sometime at the 11th month in the same calendar year to go far worse than the one that had that condition at the 1st month. I think it's within the calendar year of putting insurance or future pensioners in an unequal legal position and I think it's harmful per individual, and this is about personal legal citizens. And I think it's normal for such a law to come into force on January 1st, whatever it is that the social partners agree, however we vote here and adopt it with this or that majority, but it's correct that it enters into force from January 1st next year, so early next calendar year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58122	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58123	Comrade Hrelj, you have rightly pointed out that when it comes to the pension system we must not talk about the social system because it is actually the means that are distributed on the basis of the past work of something that has been earned. According to this logic, it would therefore be entirely expected that the proposer of this law is aware of the fact that the criteria for payments and the number of years, because that is, the Pension Insurance Act must be first and foremost. But how do you comment that if someone at the age of 62 who started working at 20 is 42 years old, he will be punished at 12, 24% and someone who started working later reached 65 years of age with the same age of employment will not be, therefore in any way, retired, or even with a smaller period because they have a much looser age for those who reach 65 years of age. On the other hand, what message we send to people if we say it doesn't matter how many years you've worked, you've been paying into the Peace Fund because someone else is going to decide how big your pension is. So, didn't we make people think? Isn't it better to go to the black market, or isn't it better to go to the minimumer and make arrangements with your employer to give me the difference in cash? 'Cause I'm gonna get that money paid in the Peace Fund when they don't pay me anyway. Well, I'd better use it now, and in that sense, I might be paying myself some kind of savings or a third pillar. Is that what the state wants? Well, that would be crazy, 'cause he cuts the branch he sits on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58124	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58125	Dear colleague Beus, I'm so glad you've replicated it for me, because it would be a shame to keep this unsaid. Namely, one of the fundamental characteristics of the pension system, i.e. I apologize to the pension insurance system, is the equality of the pensioners under the law, i.e. the equality to exercise the rights of that system on equal terms. Of course, I am personally familiar with the experience from Germany where to achieve this principle of equality in the pension system students are recognised the training of insurance of course without payment of contributions during the duration of the compulsory study. Of course, soldiers are recognised as being trained in the military for exactly the same reasons that people would start putting themselves in the same positions and that about 40 years of internship, the retirement internship at the end of the calculation would give equal amounts per year to pensions, of course for the same job, for the same level of payment of contributions. It's a real lottery with us. You can't say if you've been paying more, and you're not lucky that you're 42 years old, it's going to be reduced by five years 9%, and on the proposal 20.4%, and we get to the position of inequality of people who have equal working experience and who have worked on equal terms only because of positions that don't have equal living conditions per year. So, unsustainable is this system with one condition, and that's age.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58126	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58127	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We're here to discuss either the law that's attracted to her or the arrangements and negotiations with the unions that went that way. I repeat, it is irresponsibly and irresponsible from the government that the Parliament is putting us in a position to discuss the whole afternoon and the whole evening of a law that will not be in such a procedure. But the main argument is that the years of life in a large number of countries and the world become the only criteria for exercising the right to retire. Of course, that is the goal of neoliberal capitalism, which, with the help of statistics, proves that people live as much as they do now and they have to work as long as possible, because what it is, I think, is that people are alive and not working. It seems to me that the booklet is called the Encyclics of the late Holy Father Voytilla "Laborem Exercens" who interprets the social teaching of the Catholic Church that work exists for man, not man for work. It wasn't a man born to work, it was a work that existed so that man works to achieve existence. This concept that you advocate means that man was created by God only to work, to live in this world just to work and as long as we live and breathe, we have to work 65, 66, 67, and then statistics will announce that we live on average for 80 years, and then we'll say we have to work until 70, so they calculated that women live longer than men, so now we have to extend their working life. It's very consistent with the Catholic Church's social science. Croatia has social security. The word insurance involves in itself some contractual relationship and commitments. And then today's debate mentions Scandinavia and the state of Scandinavia as well as they're building something like that. But then you must say that in the Scandinavian states, the government model, which the Croatian Government translated into its economic rescue programme as flexi security, flexi security, flexi security, and half was translated into Croatian and half was left in English, variable but safe. And that if you want to use Scandinavia as a role model without introducing that model variable but surely you're doing damage, and he's still a little bit more serious and the flexi security model is not to get out of the crisis but to prevent the crisis from getting in. This law prior to today's debate is a school example of creating panic and causing major damage to the pension system. You testify on your own according to official data as many people back as two, three months have filed for early retirement. Some wonder why the largest number of those who leave the financial sector early is early retirement, early retirement from the financial and rich sector, not industry. Well, because the severances there are terribly large, stimulating. A textile industry worker will not receive 300,000 severances to escape to early retirement. The second argument is the relationship they pay and the one using the pension is one versus one whole three. But why is that? What happened 15 years ago that we got into this situation? The number of employees compared to the '90s and today varies somewhere at 100,000. Not anymore. You won't admit that all the models so far and the creation of privileged categories of pensioners have led to that. A colleague of Hrelj's said 260 thousand people with disabilities pensions, 27% of the total number, 180 thousand privileged pensioners with different laws, which had never been before. By pushing into disabled and early retirements in firms that are being given away in the 1990s, but... And what do you offer as a solution? [[You don't understand.]] The price will be paid by the ones who work the longest. The third argument is the Constitutional Court's decision. Now I ask the guardians of the Constitution of Croatia, and how is it that they declared only Articles 30 and 31 against the constitution? The law on the general pension system, but they did not see that discrimination against women under quotes, according to their interpretation, was implemented by other laws in preferential pensions, so they did not remember to declare the anti-constitutional provision of the law under which members of the Government and parliamentary deputies also had unequal conditions for retirement in relation to men. What is it with the Croatian Constitution's guards that they did not notice, that Croatia has several special laws on pension law besides the general pension law, in which there is also inequality, and they did not declare it unconstitutional. Because according to that same law and the judges of the Constitutional Court exercise the right, so they refused to interfere, and they did not touch, declaring other laws against the constitution. Or if the government already respects the Constitutional Court's decision so much, why did it not follow the provision of the Labour Act that the labour relationship by force of the law ceases after 65 years of life and 15 years of internship, and the Labour Act does not make the difference between men and women, and only in the pension regulation has entered that the regular full pension is 40 years of internship. Before that, it's too early, and then it's after that. We're going to penalize these, we're going to reward these, and here's equality, according to the Labour Act that we already have, which isn't anti-constitutional, 65, 15 for men and women, not since yesterday. The French remember the same discussion of water as we did, about pension reform, but you see in that France that the general regulations should exclude those who started working before the age of 18. Now you figure out why. But they're exempt from it. Well, then they do a list of tough jobs for both women and men, who will also be excluded from it. Now you find out why, since you are already serving Europe as an example. Fourth, a foolish claim, that years of life guarantee a greater internship, a longer internship. Well, my colleague Hrelja said that those who went to an old, full pension last year had an average of 27 years of internships and 64 years of age, whether or not they were colleagues of Hrelja. So now, 64 years old, so almost 65 per condition, and only 27 years of internship. Old people, and only when they're 27 years old, they're on average. ... Well, I'm sorry who felt called, but I didn't know there were any. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, please. I thought everybody retired. Penalization as a term. Punishment. Whether the government has proposed an emergency procedure for the pension of employers who do not pay a pension contribution. After all, will you reveal to him the secret of how much the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is looking for unpaid contributions at this time? Either you penalize them or you give them thank-yous and state awards. And let's be completely realistic. If you promise to reform, as agreed with the unions yesterday, the entire pension system, then at the first point of the reform programme and the law must be just one thing. From the pension system, you need to throw out anything that is not the result of the insurance and paid contributions. It's the only thing that can be in the pension system, and if the state wants to reward someone, then it gives a state supplement, military, disability, left, black, green, yellow, whatever you want, directly from the state budget. And I'll finish next, you'll vote this bill with less corrections as far as I can hear. You'll do injustice and women, because they'll start working later, at the age of 30 and 65, they'll go into full retirement, women who start working as girls or girls at 40, 4, 5, 6 years of internships, whether 0.15 or 0.34 per month, whatever. And that's all I'm going to do, and I'm always going to end my debate now with the rest of the HDZ going to lose the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58128	You know how that Caton senior who used to say that went.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58129	After all, Carthage needs to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58130	But in the end, Rome was destroyed. ... Yeah, yeah, here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Repeat, colleagues. ... Depends on what kind of verb and noun. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Replica, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58131	Dear colleague Lesar, I think that you have wrongly addressed your wish that someone from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute tell you how many unpaid contributions are in Croatia at this time, it can only be tax administration, because you know that only they know that, that the Croatian Institute is, after all, a technical service that deals with pensions, and in fact he... , i.e. he only gives payment orders. [[You don't understand.]] What's more important in your discussion, which has attracted my attention, is your mention of severance. I'd like to trouble you because we meet here and we often meet in public the term of encouraging severances. As much as it is in accordance with collective agreements, as much as it is in accordance with existing laws I don't know, I just know that people who get that incentive severance are glad because suddenly they got more money than they've ever seen in their lives, however, it's a measure of short breath, but it's spent very quickly and then all of their expectations go back to the state. I think that Croatia has and that it should have different arrangements for an institute that has dealt much better with early retirement cases, that is the institution that has also promoted the former prime minister for this speaker, that is the Institute of Pensions, not to mention at all companies involved but I think it is an excellent social product and the best social product that Croatia has because it compensates for the particular damages that come from early pensions on the burden of the employer who has an increased interest in canceling it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58132	The answer to the line, Mr. Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58133	I didn't get the wrong question about asking for a pension insurance office for two reasons, and I asked the Minister of Finance, so he couldn't answer me. But I'd like to tell you that I happen to be in charge of the pension insurance system whether I'm on official duty or not, I should know because it's the money that belongs to the system and every week I'd ask the Minister of Finance for official information on how much of my debts he's charged. Then... As for this playoff with the tobacco promotional severances, it has indeed caused enormous damage to both workers and the pension system, and this is a system for the purchase of internships or the purchase of pensions unfortunately in Croatia driven away, expelled except for a special package of some insurance companies that run it would be fairer for two reasons. Because of the pension system, social security, but also the fact that the one who pays off these severances or purchases the internship, we are well aware of how much more expensive we will be than this and given the investment contracts and commitments made in restructuring that no one in Croatia unfortunately controls when they should be executed. So the mechanisms are familiar, but we don't want to use them here anymore, use them or offer them, and it seems to me that even that pension allowance is taxed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58134	Seems to you. Or it was one careless, lapus some to do something about age 44, 46. Comrade Lesar, did you happen to mention that the old men are 64, 65 years old?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58135	I apologized for the expression of 65-year-olds, but if we continue this way in Europe, kindergartens work next to factories and we'll have to do nursing homes next to factories. My colleague Jerko, you'll be retired earlier. You've already been assured of that. Don't be alarmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58136	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Did we figure this out about the old man?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58137	I'd say more like these are experienced foxes than old men. As far as the pensions are concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58138	What about handcuffs?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58139	Well, you can cuff her, too. Foxes and cuffs. I think if we were to talk about it, I'd like to get right away, I absolutely think it's a fairer way because except that it compensates the worker for a certain amount of money he gets like this now as a severance payment with that money gets paid into the pension system and gets a full pension, and it would probably be a lot more invaluable for the employers than it is now, but that's the same question that we're going to worry about more or who we want to protect here. Because this whole system about the problem of the pension system, or the whole system was set up in the '90s when we had suddenly solved various problems in principle going into retirement and escalating in the '90s, and now I see some indications of such a way of solving and also in state-owned companies. Let's say in the Croatian Post Office the ability to manage extra workers with the same buyout, the state firm is forcing workers to retire by offering them certain money that seems ok to people at that time, and I would say sometimes under pressure of existential problems but also a feeling of a certain surplus in the company of people accept such a way of solving the problem, not only in Croatia's post office we saw in the FINA, we saw in the Croatian Railways, so again my problem is being solved and my concern goes to another but in this case the concern goes to the "teret" of the state budget, only that workers go much worse. The government's motives for proposing this law are very simple and obvious, 15 billion kuna deficits in the pension budget, but I would say this is already another law that deepens the problem and does not solve it. Let us remember the crisis tax that was also proposed to fill the state budget, in order to charge certain money from Croatian citizens, and then just caused the opposite effect, by falling consumption, increased the number of unemployed, lower payment of contributions to the budget had a marked pro-recession effect, and then what happened? We had exactly the opposite, we had less revenue in the budget but unfortunately we only saw it a year after we started to apply it. The second thing, now we're trying to relieve you of the state budget and increase the number of retired persons, and it happened again, we announced it three, four months ago, and by the end of this year we're probably going to have 40,000 more retired just because people rushed into retirement so the law doesn't get to them. So I'd call this by not finding out who is coordinating such things in the government, I guess it's someone who co-ordinates and strategically plans on economic topics, or budgetary topics, that eventually the government's failure to find a serious problem is dealt with in a serious way. What I would now point out for the next second reading of the law and certain corrections in the law above all, of course, like all SDP colleagues, is that the difference remains between going into retirement of men and women. Many times and more reasons have been listed here, so I won't repeat myself to everyone any less. But I absolutely agree if there is any increase in retirement retirement to make the adjustment period longer. We will see here there is one example in Europe or more examples in Europe, Germany which has raised two years of retirement age to do so in 10 years. So we have a double-faster pace proposal even more than there are more developed countries that I could say, and their citizens can simply adapt to the emerging situation. The second thing, which is particularly important, and the law sets out as an explanation and a proposal and the reason why it is done, because it is a high proportion of pension costs in GDP. I wouldn't say it's a high stake, it's a small GDP. So we always set things the other way around. The solution I would say the problems of the budget and the payment of pensions is not that people who have worked for 40 years find it difficult to retire, but rather the opposite of hiring people to fill the budget in such a way and try to pay off those who honestly earned their entire life span as long as it lasted. So it's not 10% of GDP, it's the problem that our GDP is small per capita and it should be bigger. And that's what this government isn't working on and what it's not working on, because in two years we've lost 8% of GDP, and there's no indication that anything is going to get better next year. Next year we're going to have a stagnation and we're very likely to make up for that 8% in 2, 3, 4 years when the other government is going to be in action, of course we hope not the HDZ. What is still important to mention is Croatia's problem when we combine it with European countries because a lot of the bill combines the situation in the European countries, which is what they do. The data that is very worrying about Croatia is that there are about 50% of employees in Europe who are less than 50% employed among people over 55 years old, while in Croatia we do not have so many employees. So this is about the disproportionateness that Croatia must compensate for, or must increase, the number of employees. As far as timing and law are concerned when proposed, it is absolutely inappropriate and I will say this as a parliamentary representative that such a law is proposed to equalise the age of retirement of men and women, and that this is not the case of parliamentary representatives and MPs. So we still have a law that allows parliamentarians to retire early for five years. So if you in the HDZ, in most cases, think it's right, so why didn't you start out with privileged pensions, that is, those people who could go into a privileged pension. We haven't touched that, and it's these people who are more experienced, and not as the older fellow Shex said, they have the possibility and easier life after they leave, they have the opportunity to work even longer because they have representatives and advocates who work until the 1970s and higher incomes, both ultimately and larger pensions. But that's not where we went after that equation. So there are many things to take into account in the bill that will be proposed in the second reading in order to really at such a sensitive moment avoid I would say to people who are hard at work, and you will find it hard to explain to nurses, kindergarten aunts, cash registers at shopping malls that they have to work 5 years more because of what's fair and because of what's done in Europe, and that we haven't started now from these examples that I've mentioned in some way people who are easier and who can work, and now they're working longer than those who do in difficult conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58140	Thank you. One correction, one replica. Correction Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58141	Well, here's Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague speaks incorrectly that another government will solve this problem in 2.3 years. If he meant the SDP government, he definitely won't. 'Cause knowing the way that we're doing our jobs by buying into the trial balloons of journalists, they're for once, so they're not for, so we're for painful cuts, so we're not for painful cuts, so we're going to cut your wages, so we're going to raise your wages, and then you're going to solve your dear problem, or you're not going to solve at least for the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58142	Replica, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58143	My dear colleague Maras, you haven't satisfied me in any way with your mild rhetoric because you call these government moves a failure to agree with the government. I think that's a lot of mild rhetoric, because God dear Government of the Republic of Croatia has all the institutions of the system at its disposal. It can work for weeks, days of calculations, and make sure they're very precise. She's at her disposal as long as she needs an expert to propose. I think it's about another ambition, the ambition of governance, the ambition of movement across the board means the shortest possible way to realize something, and then it conflicts with one way of ruling on the APP system if it passes, passes or conflicts with a subsequent mind which is usually always more quality than then previous. And we should be here talking about the previous mind so she can be the smartest, not the ex-post mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58144	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58145	Thank you very much. I couldn't agree more with you. Failing is a mild word, ignorance may be more adequate or this APP if it passes, passes, but I honestly cannot believe that someone on the APP variant would go from law to law. It's to me one I'd say dilentism that happens in the year when it's necessary to run Croatia, and we're doing exactly the opposite. We burden Croatian citizens with new taxes and leave the budget without additional income. And as for the government and the government that will pull through and which will solve the problem unfortunately left by this government, perhaps if Mr Markovanovic followed the government's work from 2002 to 2003, he would see certain reforms being done, as a reform of the pension system was carried out, as the second pillar was introduced, as the government gave up 5% of its contribution from the budget. All of this could then be studied and watched by Mr. Markovanovic from St. Sunday and when he came to power to apply. Unfortunately, he did not learn or watch, and unfortunately he did not apply. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58146	Madam Representative Biserka Vranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58147	Thank you very much. After the Constitution, the Pension Insurance Act is one of the most important laws of each country and no matter which option in power will always be one hot potato that will be difficult to remove and which will be difficult to resolve. So no matter what position this law refers to, there will be a problem today and in the future. We should not look forward to it because we have a situation that we have to correct the last 20 years when we have made many mistakes in that system. We brought in a large number of new young pensioners who retired at 30, 40 or less years and we also solved some of the social problems that we had in the waves of bankruptcy. So we've actually created a huge number of people who are here from an outward social need. The peace system doesn't actually solve any existence with us. He kind of puts out the fire and makes this little economy that we have. Never since 1990 has any government actually tried to solve this system in a way that solves the key, and key to us is the lack of jobs. The ratio of the number of persons employed and the number of pensioners is such and will be increasingly unfavourable until we begin to address the issue of job creation. All these years, we have mostly closed, restructured or otherwise worked with them. We're reducing small labour rights anyway, and it's hard to expect under these conditions of low production where there's a growing number of workers, that everything will be easier with pensioners. Today it is often said that it is actually part of an economic recovery programme, but it seems to me that in this economic recovery programme we found a model of how to take it somewhere and move it to another side to sort of balance that budget. However, there is really nothing to take from these people who are retired today and those who are about to retire. They should actually be given and compensated for all these losses they've had through this year. And it should also, in some ways, put in an equal position all the people who work, who, thanks to their work, exercise the right to retire. But we haven't done it in the last 20, the last 10 years, and that problem will arise for the next 20 years. If you change one law in 10 years 10 times this means that the problem is very serious, it means that the problem cannot be solved only by passing the law. That means we have to start solving the problem from one side. In Croatia it is said that it is necessary to equalise the rights of men and women and that will eventually come to us. However, if we are referring to some foreign situations and examples, we can say that the countries that did this have prepared their own terrain so that this could happen. They have prepared jobs, prepared kindergartens, prepared other institutions that allow this equality to be truly visible in practice and that it can be implemented. We're not talking about, for example, today. Lifelong learning or changing professions. The practice also shows that an American on average changes his interest 4 to 6 times in life until retirement, that a European does it 2 to 4 times, and a Croat doesn't do it once. Our population is simply because of the way it works, thinking inertly about it, and when someone finishes some education, occupation or something he learns to do it until retirement and that is our basic problem. Because you certainly can't expect 30, 40 years to be your job, to always earn a salary on it, so you have to adapt to the market, especially at this time that comes, which will be faster and faster, which will look for everything, new knowledge, new skills, new skills that we simply don't allow in our way of working and living. Just look at the analysis of the measure that the Employment Office has, how many people succeed and want to requalify or want to complement somehow their knowledge that is listed in the workbook. It's an extremely small number, it's maybe a percentage of 1.2 to 5%, and it's forced to lose certain rights, to have health insurance or compensation, and then people do it. They do it mostly without a will. So it would actually be five years or at least a little bit longer for us to actually change the minds of people in this country, and then we could change this law that applies in European countries. Also, here if we look at the situation as regards today's unemployed people, 70 to 75% of them are women and automatically means we have a chronic lack of female jobs and we don't aimly solve it. So we put one group of citizens back in one degradation position, and we're just going to pull that back for another 10, 20 years and more. Also, if we wanted to create a situation to go into some kind of, as I would say, simpler and easier variations we took here five years to coordinate, each year it goes six months longer. However, when you look at the financial effects of this law, then you can see that only in 2040 will we start to feel some financial effect from all of it, and I think by then this group of people who are actually going to work by 65 will actually end up knowing where, where the return is from. And I think that's what it's finally going to be. Because this situation, which means we're going to wait 30 years to feel the financial effects of today's law. Anyone is here, whether it's left or right, they're going to have that problem, and they're going to show up every year because we don't solve the key problem. We are dealing with some kind of, we have some kind of fire measure that we are trying to bring into line with the law and legislation of the European Union. However, and a much stronger state of the kind of France, Germany has just had a problem with pension insurance and there are fierce struggles even though they haven't made a series of these mistakes that we've made in the last 20 years. They are also fought fiercely for those rights where they are aware that regardless of the length of human life, the quality of life is getting worse and work up to 65 years in any workplace even the simplest is actually inexhaustible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58148	Thank you. One correction, one replica. Correction Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58149	Well, here's what I have to do to fix a colleague who's been in good shape for 20 years and said that we have to fix what she's done for the last 20 years. My colleague isn't right, go a year earlier, find the '89 paper. So you'll see in the paper that it said "Industry is on its knees", the collapse of clearing, in fact, the Croatian industry. All it took was war, and I think it's over. So the problem is I just have to say it. The problem is in a large number of people with disabilities, disability pensions that we found before the 1990s, and the problem is that we didn't process, or all of us who lived there at the time that we didn't process all those who, from whom they bought those pensions. Because most of those disability pensions were bought.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58150	The replica of Mrs. Ingrid Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58151	You're talking to your colleagues, Biserka, about 70% of unemployed women. In addition, with such unemployment, I will also mention the failure of wages that affects both men and women, of unpaid overtime, of overtime, of all the other rights arising from work. Today, physical violence, which unfortunately is not contained, is often referred to as escalating. At times, political violence and everything that needs to be done in order to contain it is being talked about. In Croatia, however, the fight against economic violence did not revive it as a concept, let alone action. And that's why all the other rights, political rights are illusory. They are a dead letter on paper, while a man and while on man in Croatia commits economic violence, especially women. Here is this visual example of textile workers in the heart of Zagreb we have experienced this in other cities that want to move out. There's work to do, but somebody liked that lovely space. They're promising jobs somewhere else. It's already been seen. Therefore, here is an appropriate and replicating fellow Biserka I can tell you something and colleagues Markovanovic, although I leave it to you, that with this situation, unfortunately, we have come up with that there will be competence in the elections who will be better. However, in this situation, the HDZ can only expect a mandate if there is a formally suspended democracy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58152	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58153	That's all true, but I must point out that we have a law on gender equality. So, we have, however, adapted ourselves to the European Union in some parts and some legal solutions. However, in this law, we also have a provision on a so - called opportunity for women who are in a much more difficult situation because of family and other obligations to be given greater rights. However, we are now, for example, doing this positive discrimination, we simply cut it by this law, we shut it down, and we simply go over the fact that the situation is on the market, and we are trying to put women in another more difficult position than they have ever been. We do not have all the fighting in any area if we have not realised the economic struggle in a way that we should be economically equal to all members of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58154	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58155	When a law is passed, that law has its own war, the reason why it is passed, the declared goal. And if such a law writes a group of more normal people and at least average intelligence, then the norms of that law go after it to achieve a declared goal. In this law, it's not like that. One of the objectives is that the proposed law will cause positive effects on the financial stability of existing pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. Not that he will not cause positive effects on financial stability. He'll destabilise that system. Not that it'll destabilise him. He's already destabilizing it as soon as it's announced. It hasn't even been adopted yet, it hasn't even been discussed yet, and it's already destabilizing the system. I mean, these days, you've got a lot of traffic, a lot of traffic on your retirement funders, because people in the stampede run off to early retirement. Now on the news, I'm listening to half-eight requests, 80% more than last year. By the end of the year, they'll probably be 100%, maybe even beyond that. By now, at least 18,000 people have just announced this law to you, and you're going to retire. They're leaving the world of work. They will no longer pay contributions, but come to the burden of pension insurance and budget. You'll have to pay them your pensions. So the system will be where it's unstable and destabilized like this. So this is a fine example of a law that achieves effects exactly the opposite of those it seeks to achieve and what they are declared. It takes legislative skills to achieve such an effect. It's not easy to achieve. Usually the laws achieve that goal they set, not exactly the opposite effect, and it really needs to be skillful to succeed. Now let's ask ourselves another question. What good and who will this law bring? I am following the debate over the law and I see that the law is only satisfied with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ Club. I've never heard of any man, nowhere that journalists, experts, or I personally asked what he thought about it and that he could praise this law and that he said that, that law came to me, he would solve, or at least fix my situation. He's the only one you're happy with. Such laws are as little in legislative practice as they do to anyone, but this law does nothing good to anyone. The first group that this law applies to are women, all women. There are no women in Croatia who can be satisfied with the legal solutions offered. He'll have to work five years longer. Explanation. And listen, we care about gender equality. Well, God's people, women in this society are discriminated against in different ways. Em's harder to get a job, but they've got less pay, and you've been doing this discrimination just like you're extending their working life. And to no one else, no other discrimination you went to solve, but here. It will help women to work five years longer. Now it will be much happier because it will feel that they are no longer as discriminated against as they were so far when they had to work 5 years less. Well, good for you. It really needs to be remembered. The second group covered by the law are those who are 40, 50, 55, who will be fined as they leave for early retirement. According to current regulations, they could count on it to go into some early retirement pension, that their reduction would be 9%, and they were counting on it, and you now tell them no, what 9%, 20.4% per 5 years of internship, how much of it goes into that early retirement, 20.4%. These people must certainly be embittered by such a legal proposal. All employees. You're saying this law will stimulate staying in the world of work after 65 years. And it will. At the same time in Croatia today, we have 133 thousand people, up to the age of 34 who can't find a job. They're out of school. Well, those schools aren't cheap. Well, society has invested something in their education, and they've invested themselves in money and effort. They have acquired skills that they are slowly beginning to forget because they have nowhere to show them, because they have nowhere to train them, because they have nowhere to work. And you're the government, which instead of worrying about how to hire those 133 thousand young people, you're thinking about how those over 65 years of age stay at work, stimulate them to stay at work, so these youngsters can never get their place until they die. So really unusually interesting logic. And you'll probably be more efficient at your job than this young man for over 65 years, they'll give to society far more than these young people, they're your most pressing concern. So it's hard to find an example of a law that misses the goal so much, an idea, if there's any ideas at all, like this law. The basic problem in Croatia is an unfavourable relationship between the number of employees and the number of pensioners. '80s. The year was one to four, '90s. One to three, and then he started falling. '90s. The year you first came to power, you retired a huge number of young working people, some because you didn't like their nationality, others because you didn't like their political orientation. And you didn't care about destroying the pension system. You didn't care. You did the same after the privatisation you spent, even after the war when the defenders came back from the front, and when they no longer found a job, because while they were at war you privatized. And while they were defending the land, you were destroying the tycoons you made possible. And what you could do with those young people who came back from the front, you retired them. What are you going to do with them? The collapse of this pension system continued. And '99. the years before you lose the election, so that your statistics wouldn't be bad at the Employment Service, the third time you've sent a huge number of people into retirement. Now, with this early retirement bill, you send at least 30,000 more people, and you have no idea, no idea how to hire those in the labour market who are looking for work on those lists, who apply every day somewhere and who can't get a job anywhere. The solution to the pension problem should only be sought in one instance in increased employment, not in keeping people in existing jobs until their death. This is a completely missed legal project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58156	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58157	Here is the usual fellow Stazic incorrectly stating the data. Today we heard from the minister that there were just over 11,000 people in early retirement until now, and last year 18 thousand went away. However, counterpart Stazic read that it is 18 thousand. My colleague Stazić, you always mess with something you read, I read, for example, that the Skazici brothers were burning and dealing kebabs on Brijuni, I didn't believe it, but if it's true, then you took away the unemployed jobs because instead of you they could have done some two unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58158	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58159	I, in Article 109. I'm reading that you're stealing by self-serving, I don't believe it's written in this Rules of Procedure, but I'm reading that you're a common thief, I'm reading it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58160	Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, you have not announced me as we have so far had practice, last in the end, when the last... cheered up they know it's over after that. It's been said a lot, what I've written here, I've crossed a lot, but I'd started from when I started working, back in the old days, last state, and then there was one winged very important, very fashionable, and there was a lot of behavior about it, "no work until work, no wages until retirement", and today we're talking about both work and pension obligations, and retirement, pensioning everything that we're going to live on after, all together this is now worse. Ozren Matijašević looks, I congratulate him for having the strength to endure, it is evident that the fighter and others betrayed him, they went away, he stayed alone, but see how much in this everything we talk about now, there is masochism, we say many things unnecessary, there is much being said, then it is said again, and of course some texts are repeated in the assembly no matter what topic we talk about we always go back to the same. But to come to the measure of things I agree with, and I'm glad that it went into second reading always, I think it's good to spend the night and do something, regardless of whether it's a consequence of speech but it's a good thing that we have time to stand on the balcony and think about how things are going back. In the thinking of everything, the purpose is to work and interest on this work or rent that we get out of work whether it's in years of internship or age, but it seems to me that it's certainly a better quality of thinking that applies to work, because we invested in and got some results. However, I don't think, or I think that demagogy is talking about how someone at 65 will be the third shift of some production, the third shift of some production certainly didn't finish college, but started working earlier, so there's no obligation to do so. Otherwise, there were talks of no colleagues of Lesar, so it seems pointless to talk about the story of work and about how we came from monkeys and whether the work makes us monkeys and what the church of ora et labs is already missing, but now, at the incentivization of fellow Stazic's profits, it's actually out of his belief that in fact the biggest profits of all of this together are being drawn out by Hrelj because the number of pensioners is increasing, so his electoral body is automatically increasing as a party of pensioners, by all means, expensively, that in this context and speaking. In the relations of women and men in all this together, it seems to me that in everything else there is a healthy basis for such a debate there is a lot of demagogue each of us has a wife, so each of us wants his wife to have a dignity in life and in work, therefore, it seems to me that it's not much of an urgency for HDZ to be against women and SDP is for women, it just doesn't seem like that. I would look at things from one little brighter side, so with my admission that the invested work should be... anything else that will be made to reward all together properly and justly, it seems to me that one brighter view of this would be the data that we got about the average age that was 76.3 in 2009, on average, and 71 was 91. This calculation doesn't know whether I get circumstances or just pulled out mathematically but justifies the thought of Professor Miroslav Radman who said that every day our life extends for 6 hours and when you calculate it then for this period of almost 20 years, 6 years has extended life span over the past 20 years of Croatian democracy. And of course, no matter how old and old it may be that someone misunderstood me, it's a matter of discussing how powerful it is to work and be active and fresh. I could retire a few years ago with a full-time job, with full-time years, I never got paid out of the budget, every salary I earned and at a time when it was difficult to have myself on the market, at the time of the last state and hence with all these discussions relieved of that kind and I have only one message no matter what they say the SDP will win power, however, no matter what power it will be, I believe it will be HDZ, but let the HDZ Government know in the future,...the remaining that my intention is to use my retirement internship as long as possible when I enter it at all. For a long time, one of my barbarians had to go through the Split ghetto in Split, because for 30 years he had been receiving a pension and social benefits were given to whoever hit him on the road gets a premium, so much more cost them with his pension. That's probably how I'm gonna do it. And compared to women, I don't know if you know that widows are dead, and widows bloom after that. So there's something about it that's in some biological component that's different. Now everybody cheer up and let's go home. If it wasn't for someone replicating or correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58162	And over this, you really need to think deeply of what's going on and what's going on. ... It's very... in doubtful value perhaps even widows bloom. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No more interested in the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Government representatives do not express their desire for an additional final draft. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system concerning the opening of a referendum on the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act with the Final Proposal for a Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-22-0.u58163	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to a decision on the agenda point. Please engage to check the quorum. The result? There are 109 MPs and MPs present, we can decide. So, please, we're moving on to the transition points of the agenda. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act was first read, P.Z. No. 596. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act and 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions delivered in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The conclusion was accepted by most 81 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 48 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue to work and move on to the announced 2nd item of the agenda. The proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system concerning the opening of a referendum on the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, with a final proposal for a law, has proposed these conclusions under Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and Vice-President Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
