ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56256	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. The law on public enforcement was created as a result of the reform of the executive system in the Republic of Croatia. The effective judiciary is based on a modern and democratic state, the more the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time is a fundamental human right. Without effective and effective enforcement, these postulates remain a dead letter on paper, i.e. ineffective enforcement challenges the entire ratio and the purpose of litigation and judgments or solutions if they cannot ultimately be carried out or their implementation takes too long. It has been the main reason for the ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary for many years now, despite the fact that it has been constantly dealing with it in an effort to improve it. Evidence of this is a number of novels of the executive law. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore decided on a radical reform of the executive system by adopting a Strategic Study on a more effective way of implementing and introducing a new Institute of Public Executives on 30 July 2009. The Institute of Public Executives is a novelty of our legal system, however, the institute has long been known in many European Union countries. Moreover, in some like France, it has a long tradition and enjoys great reputation, and in practice it has proved to be very effective. Therefore, when drawing up this law, the best standards of the European Union related to this institution and all the main points of recommendation 17. The 2003 Council of Europe relating to the performance. The law leaves the current model of judicial enforcement and implementation is given in the jurisdiction of public perpetrators. In the jurisdiction of the courts, of course, we leave and will remain only an exercise for the purpose of handing over the child to the parent and the exercise of his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/his/her/his/her/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/her/his/his/her/his/his/her/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/her/his/her/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/her/his/her/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/ his/her/ his/ his/ his/her/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/her/her//// his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his////////// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his//// his/ his/// his/ his/// his/ These are really very sensitive issues. These are issues that we did not want to leave in the concept of a new exercise, to give authority to public executives, but simply for the sake of sensitivity, for the participation of those other bodies as a centre for social care. We left it in the jurisdiction of the courts and these cases and there's not so much that the courts couldn't do it any further. The law is governed, therefore, by the Law on Public Executors, since it is a new institute. The law regulates the structure, powers and manner of public enforcement as a public service, the choice of public enforcement officers, the conditions for appointment, the criteria for determining the number of public perpetrators, their competence, powers and obligations, liability for damages, the obligation of permanent education, the strict responsibility, the control system and the establishment of a firm and permanent monitoring mechanism for their work. So we're introducing a brand-new institute. We've already got public records, we've got lawyers. This will be an entirely new service, and it is necessary to regulate it in one right way because in their work, of course, they can make certain mistakes tomorrow, and there may be certain damages. In order to ensure this, the parties and those laws are prescribed, they will have to be secured by insurance companies in order to possibly address the consequences they would not, which are not good. The public enforcement service shall be established as a public service provided by public operators as independent and independent service holders having the capacity of public trust persons. A public enforcement officer may be appointed a person who has, who fulfils the conditions laid down in the law. So, Croatian citizenship, completed Law School, passed a judicial exam, a public-executive exam, needed work experience after a legal examination and which is worthy of public confidence in making a public-executive call and other conditions that we have prescribed. And the public enforcement officer is appointed by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary on the basis of competitions conducted by the Chamber. I have to say here it was, we've been compromised and we've looked at comparative solutions in other systems and there are really various solutions. For example, in Hungary, public perpetrators could also become people with medium professional training in the beginning. However, after a certain number, after a certain period of time that institute lived, it was nevertheless concluded that these jobs were hypersensitive, that by doing these public-executive jobs, they were entering into a number of issues that should be of course of expertise and therefore we were going here with quite high criteria of expertise that this public contractor must have. The number of public enforcement posts shall be determined by the Ministry of Justice, on the basis of the opinion obtained by the Chamber of Public Executives, the courts and the competent county authority, taking into account that at least two public perpetrators are on every 80 thousand inhabitants and at least one public executive in the area of each county court, as well as the needs for public enforcement services and the development of economic and legal traffic. The law lays down, of course, the means of termination of the public service, as well as the way in which the records of the public contractor are handled after the termination of the service. The law also prescribed mandatory insurance against the responsibility I spoke of, the right to regress against employees, as well as the question of responsibility for the damage he may have caused by the violation of his official duty. Furthermore, the law provides for public enforcement powers, i.e. the tasks authorised by the public enforcement authority to carry out the service, and the type of documents drawn up by the public enforcement authority in the performance of the service, is the obligation of the public enforcement authority to document all the actions it takes, so that at any time it can be subject to control. It also provides for the regulation of the standardised form and contents of the document, which will be prescribed by a special regulation adopted by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. In other words, we will prescribe forms for the conduct of public perpetrators, the acts that he brings, they will be formal, we will prescribe content, the way of filling, and in this way we will have insight, and in this way we will even up the conduct of all public perpetrators in the Republic of Croatia, which is very often with our judicial authorities, unfortunately, and it is not, because we know that in various segments of the conduct of judicial bodies we also have different practices in the Republic of Croatia, which still leads to some uncertainty, but it is less and less, and the Supreme Court is working very hard to even court practice. Public executives will be organised through a public executive chamber, except for public executives, their deputies, assistants, officials and trainees, the authorities of the chamber will be the Assembly of the Chamber, the Management Board and the President of the Chamber, the other bodies that will establish the Chamber itself by their statute. The Chamber as a representative body of public executives will play a major role in the public ministry, and one of the basic tasks will be to oversee the work of public contractors. In that sense, the chamber will co-operate with the ministry. The law stipulates the strict responsibility of public perpetrators, and that is one of the key parts of the law. Exactly the types of tight deeds are prescribed, as are the penalties for each of them. There's a number of tight bodies, and their powers. It is prescribed that the way in which these procedures are handled, the legal medicines, the outdated prosecutions and the enforcement of the firm decisions. It should point out that the second-degree body in the strict procedure will be the ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. This will achieve a dispersion of control over the work of public contractors, i.e. to achieve a higher degree of effectiveness and control, and I would say objectivity. This means that they themselves will not decide on their own responsibility, but that one body will actually be able to objectively assess whether there has been an injury or not. The law is one of the conditions for the appointment of a public executive, i.e. a deputy public contractor, prescribed and a public executive exam. The conditions for the submission of the examination and the obligation of the Ministry to organise the first public exams and specific courses are laid down for the preparation of the candidates for the submission of the examinations. So very significant two laws, two laws that change the system of performance entirely. The system of enforcement has been concentrated exclusively in our courts, and I can say that it has burdened our courts a lot, and that is why we move on to a system that is known in the European Union countries, I would say 19 European Union member states have developed a system of public perpetrators, in all of them it has proved effective, in all of us it has proved good, we have made one analysis, we have carried out insights, we have actually talked, I don't know we have visited France which has the longest tradition of public perpetrators, and in France, for example, public perpetrators even have some other powers that pass by ourselves if we look at that part of the exercise in a narrow sense. They even have certain powers that are known in our system as temporary evidence insurance, which is very interesting, but perhaps at some later stage, that only when we set up this service and when this service begins to function in this basic segment, which is related to the performance. We are fully aware of the fact that the performance of course in the Republic of Croatia is quite a problem, because the parties are running long procedures, so that the parties will come up with a powerful verdict as we see very often for many years, and then after all, they come into a system of performance which is equally long again and out of this system of performance without having settled their claims, and then it is painful, they spend the resources, and in fact there is nothing in the end. I want to say here, we want to build a judicial system in which cases will be resolved in one time that the party knows that within 3 years it will fully protect its right, and its legal interest in the court, and in this very spirit we have made all of these reforms that have, of course, been before this Parliament, we have made, I must always repeat a network of courts that is much more adequate and more appropriate to our needs. We have made significant changes and in procedural laws that allow for faster court proceedings, and now that we add to this a new system of enforcement that we deeply believe will provide much better opportunities for the parties to those judgments that they have received in the enforcement system, we think that we will build a good system where people will trust in the judiciary when they come to protect their legal interest, that they will know that this will happen within a period of up to 3 years, which is a reasonable deadline, in fact, for a trial, that this process will not be extended. Of course it takes time, it takes the implementation of all the laws that we have passed, but we are working on other laws and new laws that will also be before this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56257	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56258	I thank Mr. President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The performance has been one of the main reasons for the ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary for many years. The current Implementing Law has experienced a series of novels in a number of years where the situation has been improving but, as we know, insufficiently. A strategic study was adopted on 30 July 2009 for a more effective way of implementing and introducing public executives. The Strategic Study set out the general and specific objectives of reforming the executive courts of the Republic of Croatia, where the general idea is to develop an effective and effective judiciary of the exercise, and the specific simplification of the executive procedure, the reduction of the duration of the executive procedure and the discharge of courts. Under this proposal of the Implementing Law, a legislative framework for a new way of enforcement is created, leaving the court's exercise of enforcement, and it is entrusted to the new Institute of Public Executive. The new Executive Act pays special attention to legal medicines, i.e. to all institutes that have so far made the exercise ineffective, and enable the abuse of procedural powers. Thus, a regulated institute of delay of the performance, on a proposal from the perpetrators, created the conditions for the full application of the personal identification number or of the OIB, made possible the simplified submission of the application proposal to the public enforcement officer and the specific implementation procedures were simplified. The law on public enforcement was created as a result of the reform of the executive system in the Republic of Croatia. And it represents a big newspaper, unlike many European Union countries, where the Institute of Public Executives has applied in a long series of years and with a lot of success and with a lot of reputation, here is what our minister mentioned. Therefore, the best standards of the European Union related to this institution and all the main points in Recommendation 17. The Council of Europe of 2003, which says that the exercise must be governed by clear legal frameworks, with clear and simple reference to the rights, obligations, responsibilities and opportunities of all participants, thus ensuring compliance with the law and judicial decisions. In particular, it has sought to ensure that the law is sufficiently exhausted to the extent that it will ensure legal certainty and transparency of the exercise, as it must be possible for the implementation of the exercise to be as predictable and as effective as possible. This Law leaves, as we have already said, the current model of judicial conduct and implementation of it is given into the jurisdiction of public perpetrators. In the jurisdiction of the courts, and this has already been mentioned, there will remain only an exercise for the purpose of handing over the child to the parent and the exercise for the purpose of meeting and socialising the parents with the child, as well as the establishment of an exercise on the basis of a foreign court, domestic or foreign arbitration law, or where it is prescribed by law or other law to determine the court. This proposal regulates the Institute of Public Executive, the way in which they are elected, the conditions for appointment, the criteria for determining the number of public perpetrators, their jurisdiction, powers and obligations, liability for damages, the obligation of permanent education, the responsibilities, the control system and the establishment of a firm and permanent monitoring mechanism for their work. Sub-legislative rules, which will regulate the work of public enforcement officers, must be adopted within the time limits prescribed by this law. We from the HNSA Club expect and firmly believe that the new Executive Act, as well as the Law on Public Executives, and the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the financial resources that we discussed yesterday, will contribute to an effective and effective exercise, faster and more effective enforcement will certainly result in a reduction of the backlogs in courts which is necessary and needs a path towards a more effective judiciary as a whole. And that's what everybody's goal is. I would like to express my regret that we have not entered the whole process before, because we firmly believe that these new three laws will contribute to the efficiency and efficiency of the judiciary. We from the HNSU Club will support these two bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56259	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56260	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Since a united debate is related to the Executive Act and the proposal for a law on public enforcement, we at the HSS Club will focus more on the Law on public perpetrators. In view of the fact that this Law abandons the almost entirely up-to-date model of judicial conduct, and its implementation is given jurisdiction to public enforcement authorities, which is certain to achieve the discharging of courts. However, in the jurisdiction of the courts, the exercise remains on the basis of a decision of the foreign court and of arbitration law, and then for the purpose of handing over children to parents. The courts will also continue to implement decisions on the meetings and associations of parents with a child, and any exercise for which an executive or other law provides for them to be carried out by the court. The public enforcement service has so far been completely unknown in the Croatian legal system. However, this service works well and effectively in some European countries. The implementation will continue to be based on the Implementing Laws in accordance with the provisions of the Implementing Act or of the other Law and will be implemented by public enforcement officers. The future public perpetrators will be able to be exclusively graduate lawyers with a passed judicial and public enforcement exam, which should guarantee expertise in public enforcement. As with the existing public notaries, public enforcement officers will appoint a minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary by means of a solution and on the basis of the competition carried out. They will also have persons who will be able to replace them in the ministry as a pandan for public noteworthy neighbors, i.e. public executive deputies, who will have to meet the same conditions as the public perpetrators themselves. The places of the public executive deputies shall be filled in on the basis of the invitation to tender which shall be opened and carried out by the chamber. As regards the proposed provision of paragraph 6 of Article 70, it is prescribed, among other things, that "If, contrary to the establishment of a specific public executive executive, a public executive in the next year cannot seek the opening of a public executive deputy in his court", we hold in the HSS Club that such a restrictive provision, which apriorius denies the possibility of a public executive to fill the place of public executive deputy in his office, if he opposes the appointment of a certain public executive deputy and for more than one year from his request, should be tempered by us. In the light of the assumption that the public executive is the appointment of a public executive deputy for the purpose of his work in a specific public executive office, we believe that the public executive should nevertheless provide the possibility to first refuse a certain public executive deputy without sanctions for his work and not to interfere with the work of his office. We therefore propose to the Proposer that this provision of the bill be considered by the second reading. Graduated lawyers who do not have a judicial or public executive exam but who have at least 18 months of employment in legal work after graduation shall be considered as public executive assistants and may carry out the tasks for which they are authorised by the public executive. We believe that these public executive assistants will be of particular importance to the functioning of the public executive office, those public executives who will not have a filled seat in their offices. And finally, I would like to point out that this bill is necessary and good, that the introduction of public enforcement functions into our legal system is a significant novelty that we expect to dispel courts, speed up the implementation of the executive procedure, and given the professional and moral conditions that must be met by the persons of future public perpetrators, we hold that they will guarantee the impartial and rapid implementation of future tasks. Because of all this, we at the HSS Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56261	Thank you. Minister, are you sure? Thank you. ... We've got more. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. There's an application that I can hardly decrypt. But after years of experience, I can guess who it is. It is Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56262	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We all know that a court ruling remains a dead letter on paper unless it is executed. In fact, the effectiveness of its system is assessed exactly how many judicial decisions are being carried out. Of course, Croatia has serious problems with these performances, and that is why we have been trying for years to make this system as efficient as possible. Let us remind ourselves that in 2000, 2002, 2003, amendments and additions to the Implementing Law were passed on to public notaries. For years, however, first in 2004, the law was suspended to be re-admissioned in 2005 with a significant newspaper that seems to me and now remains here in the draft of the Executive Law, which we in the SDP hold to be deeply unfair. Namely, when will the executive law and when will the execution be good? Not only when it is efficient but equally so when it is achieved at equal speed and at equal speed towards the poor and towards the rich. In addition, certain institutes should contribute. I will immediately say that we in the SDP hold that the Institute of fiduciaryism is therefore in whose morality is being debated when this institute came to be very questionable. Especially in times of crisis when people are exhausted by increased credit wars and can no longer pay their last credit rates. Is it just that financial institutions primarily take away people's entire assets without any executive procedure? They don't need a court or public records or public executioners. They themselves, when such an obligation arises, as soon as the smallest share of the entire property is not paid up. I think that in these times, we should seriously consider this, and I would suggest that the other reading should consider this. Otherwise, as for these other institutes and this one way the government has now defined itself, it certainly introduces order. However, we have had quite an empty walk and that has revived this executive law, so we could see what the obstacles are to going to a whole new institute, a public enforcement institute, which is sort of complemented or pandan to public notaries, by the fact that public notebooks only solve uncontested things. But in any case, it's a step away from the judiciary itself, which is good for its very efficiency. After all, many systems do not have in their part the judicial authority the work carried out by different agencies. We were then far away in 2002, for the third year we were determined to do so by private companies that were registered for it. Obviously, there was no one of great interest especially in all the errands. But I'm also very well aware that individuals have accumulated wealth precisely on these examples, so a fiduciary stock equally in these cases does not pay off these classic loans. So where individuals or their companies deal with such a business but only with real estate. So they don't get those things done on the move, something that doesn't pay for them what they need to do and it's small for them. Maybe that's why one way to move into a whole new institute, the public executioner institute seems good anyway. However, what is not seen now and it is not necessary to write in the law, but the public will certainly want to know how much this executive procedure will cost the party. So that's one piece of information that the citizens certainly want to know. All interested, too, are primarily lawyers with a legal exam and the question arises how will the matter be formed for public enforcement. What seems to me to me is that in Article 14 concerning the appointment of public perpetrators, these must certainly be persons of public confidence and that they will be competent. The minister takes care of it. As there is always a dispute in the appointment of public notaries, although we can say quite objectively these conditions and criteria for the appointment of public perpetrators, perhaps to some extent these criteria are specified, but also what will be the number of public executives in a particular county, i.e. in the area of action of a particular county court. You can see here that those classic reasons are already listed, such as the appointment of public notebooks. However, this is the case in Article 18(2), it is said that the Ministry will also take into account the needs of public records services and the development of economic and legal traffic when determining the number and seats of public enforcement officers. Unfortunately, this condition of economic and legal traffic development cannot be applied here, it applies to public notebooks. Unfortunately, the executions occur where no economy is developed, where people are poor, where companies fail, and maybe find a different term, but in any case not to produce any different interpretation of whether someone needs a job this or not, which, as it is now, will be quite lucrative. So, from better conditions or precision of conditions, I think we can all profit. In the end, this also contributes to trust in the public perpetrator himself. However, something that must certainly be pointed out in principle was once carried out only by the court. That was ineffective, the court has other things to do, the primary one to judge and make decisions in issues. We decided then to transfer the main part of the job to the public notebooks, especially the uncontested performances. Public perpetrators will now participate in the process of implementation. At first glance, I'm sure it's confusing. Equal legal weight has been addressed to both public notaries and public contractors at the beginning. Perhaps that these things are immediately, so given that they are addressed to all citizens, but above all those who will apply these provisions, they are at the beginning clear. Therefore, what is the difference from the beginning of the takeover, so when the court delegates a certain procedure, to the perpetrator, or to the public perpetrator or to the public notary. Or the same, to whom the citizens will address with their credible executive order. So there's no dilemma. It seems to me that, no matter how much they will be, they will be called a legion to form a service, that those who need to apply these provisions of the law of preparation, above all citizens. I don't think there should be any dilemma at first. This is how for that good knower of the executive procedure, it still causes a first impression of a certain doubt. Here is the support of the proposal for a law on public enforcement and the proposal for an executive law, the SDP Club expects that until the second reading, we will get answers to these questions that I have now raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56263	Thank you. And finally, Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank everyone for the debate. Thank you for the support I see these two laws have in their first reading. The laws are indeed extremely complex, extremely important. We're introducing a big newspaper, we're introducing a whole new system of executions relative to the one we have now, and that's why the law is, of course, in two readings. All that is discussed will be analyzed during the summer and the next months and we will see what is good and we will install, of course, for the second reading. But I really think that this new system really must lead to a more efficient, significantly better execution because our courts are crowded and buried in these cases in which they solve concrete things and interests in litigation, criminal proceedings and these executive proceedings have really put them on extra charge. This kind of service that will be much more motivated, which will deal exclusively with the performance will lead to a more efficient, better performance than we have today. This question that my colleague Anticevic has raised is an interesting question and we will give him special attention once we analyze it because now we will have three subjects in the system of implementation. We will continue to have courts in the most sensitive cases of the exercise, so in handing over the child in the performance, it means family, parenting relations. We will continue to have public notebooks, but it is a performance based on a credible I.D., it is a performance that is not guided by the basis of the executive documents but which is guided by the foundations and accounts, which is therefore based on a copy of the accounts. And that's the point of which if the perpetrator objectes then she actually enters the classic form of litigation and the classic form of litigation. Public perpetrators act where the court has finished the whole work, where we have executive documents or we have those documents that are soleminated and which have an executive clause and where only the performance is necessary. And that's where public perpetrators act, and that's where we expect efficiency from them. I said it would be a very formal procedure. We will also prescribe patterns based on which they will act, which will, of course, enable the uniformity of the procedure. And as far as costs are concerned, I know that this is a matter of interest because anyone who enters court procedures is required to secure the money for some expenses and even for the purpose, but the basic goal and the basic principle is that the one who has lost it ultimately bears all the costs. That's the basic goal. Of course there will be some things to be done before. But the main goal is that whoever lost and the litigation process ends up with the costs of the litigation process and the one who produced and led to the executive procedure to carry it eventually. I believe that this system will work precisely because we will speed up, because we have passed such laws, we will speed up these litigation procedures, we will speed up the executive procedure, so that no one will be able to count on someone I will not pay, I will not carry out my obligations because the courts are slow, because the execution is slow, but everyone will still watch, regulate and fulfil their obligations because they will know that the courts and all judicial bodies are efficient and fast. It will all strengthen and lead to a different business culture, because today, indeed, everyone who does not pay for a system mess is working on one system where if someone does not pay someone else, they cannot fulfil their obligations and, of course, it is not acceptable for us as a society. And that's why the execution has to be effective. It can neither be in behalf of the perpetrators, nor can it be in behalf of the believer. It must be effective to lead to order and I believe that we will get there. The Implementing Law itself may have been a little more focused on the Law on Public Executors, but the Implementing Law itself offers important changes, offers a lot of improvement in conduct. Because now we have a court in a completely different role. The court does not carry out the exercise, but acts and supervises the procedure of enforcement through legal medicines. So, the perpetrator has a whole series of instruments that protect him from the illegal conduct of a public perpetrator and from illegality in the performance, and if it means having such objections, he asks for protection from the court by means of legal remedies, and we have cut deadlines and have obliged the court to act much faster on legal medicines than it has been so far. Therefore, the law is once again repeating both laws are in the first reading and we will further analyze and see that we make improvements for the second reading. But surely this is one big step in building a more modern justice system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56265	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on points P.Z.E. No. 581 and 584. The Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Thank you. I am concluding the debate on points P.Z.E. No. 581 and 584. The Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors. We'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. The court register is a registration register for companies and it is very important for the registration procedure, it is very important that the way in which the courts are handled. Also to make the courts efficient, to be quick when entering the court register, and today it is. Because by enroling a company in a court register, a company acquires legal subjectivity, so that we say it begins to live, it can be the holder of the rights and obligations in legal traffic. What we would say as if a man were born, that's how companies are born when they're registered in a court register. We've changed the Court Register Act six times already, and indeed even these changes would have earned us maybe if we'd made a new Court Register Act. However, it is very likely that next year we will also go to further compliance with the acquis and with some of the needs that have arisen regarding the recent amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies. That's why we went here to say change, and one complete document will be prepared most likely for next year. We have had significant changes to the Law on Commercial Companies in recent years, where we have brought our commercial rights in line with the acquis of the European Union. We've introduced a whole series of new institutes. For example, one of them is also a way of managing stock companies. As we know after these recent amendments to the Law on Commercial Society, we actually have the last two models of governance of the shareholders' societies, monastic and dualist. So far, we've only had dualistics where we've had a system of supervisory board and management by the administration, and today it's possible in a different way through the institutes that we've introduced with the latest changes. It is precisely because we have introduced the possibility of increasing the share capital through the latest amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies. So in one more efficient, faster way and even without a report from authorised auditors. These amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies should be accompanied by amendments to the Law on the Court Register in order to enable them to live. That is why the Law on Amendments of the Court Register allowed us to fully implement those amendments that had been introduced in previous years by the Law on Commercial Companies. As two newspapers, as two newspapers I'd say important introduces or I'd say we return that statement we once had. This means that those founders of companies must contribute to that statement when setting up a company or when changing the founders of companies that they do not have tax debts and debts for pension, health contributions. Because the truth is, it's not a questionable fact anymore. That's what we see from the data. A whole series of companies are founded on the principle of Imam, I own a company, I run a business, I get into dubiosis, I get into debt and I start a new company and I run a business. So this is one of the measures, of course, to prevent such a thing, all the institutions of society have to function, from competent inspections, from competent other judicial authorities to prevent such a thing, but it is a mess in the system that is not allowed and we are preparing and amending the bankruptcy law which will also enable the state to be more effective in the resolution of such entities that have brought a riot on the business market. In addition, we are introducing as a newspaper the publication of all in the register of founders of a limited liability society, so that companies with limited liability so far did not have to register their founders in the competent commercial court, but the founders were led in those books of business interests, which were within the administration or within the company, and so far we will have in the trade register ourselves recorded who are founders of a limited liability society and with the introduction of a new system, meaning the OIB, the personal identification number, and we believe that there will be strong weapons in the fight against organised crime and corruption, because using the OIB will be able to see precisely who has any company, where they have business stakes, what these business interests are and that. Therefore, before you there is the law and we propose to this Croatian Assembly, we have put it in emergency procedure to meet all these deadlines for compliance with it, so I propose to the Croatian Parliament to support and pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56283	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56284	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So before us is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register with a final proposal for a law which is therefore proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure and I will first say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support its adoption. First of all, we will support it for the reason that its adoption is necessary in order to comply with the last draft of the Commercial Society Act, and primarily with those amendments and additions that entered into force on 1 April 2008, i.e. they entered into force on 1 May 2010. I would like to remind you that these amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies introduced amendments to the harmonisation of secondary sources of legal property of the European Union in the area of company rights, that, in order to strengthen the fight against money laundering from the law, securities on the bearer have been removed, free choice has been made between the so far existing dualist and monastic model of governance in stock companies, thus allowing greater freedom of organisation. The cross-border merger and association of companies has been regulated, also for the purpose of creating conditions for the free cross-border provision of services to foreign entrepreneurs is allowed to carry out one-off and occasional transactions without the obligation to set up a branch. A further regulated question related to the reserves of capital companies until then has not been settled and is prescribed to draw up and publish annual reports on the situation and society. Also, the result of the harmonisation of this law with the Commercial Society Act will be the continuation of the information and modernisation of the court register initiated by the pilot of the e-business project, and as we know e-business as the service of HItro.hr enables an online establishment of a limited liability society from any public record office or HItro.hr office in the Republic of Croatia, in any of the commercial courts. When it comes to the court register, I will repeat that the court register is also a public record of legal persons, primarily companies, but also institutions, cooperatives, economic interest associations, traders, and branches of foreign companies. These are data on the registration entity, the business subject, the activity, the company members, the board members, and members of the supervisory boards, legal relations and company branches data if the company of course has them. It is also important to say that the court register database is defined as historical, which means that each data once entered in the main book of the court register remains permanently entered, allowing the publication of a historical excerpt with all the information that has ever been entered on one subject. There is also a record of each individual entry, when the entry took place, when the judge signed the solution, when the solution became valid, and possibly when some data ceased to apply. I will repeat and emphasise what this is specifically governed by this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. The protection of personal data by domestic and foreign natural and legal persons shall, above all, be governed, but in such a way as to enable the full application of the personal identification number regulations. It allows parties to obtain a historical excerpt from the court register on a special request. Public notebooks will also be able to submit applications for registration in the register by electronic means. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. In addition, the data required for each entry entity shall be provided in detail, primarily in relation to the limited liability companies, given that the entry for them is arranged differently, as well as the data to be entered for prosecutors. It shall be prescribed that the registration court should act in the case of incomplete and unfounded applications, and in particular in the case where it is obvious that the value of the founding roles in matters is overrated. A detailed procedure for eradicating or modifying certain data in the register has been further arranged. It is also important that the adoption of this law will allow the registration courts to complete the liquidation procedure of a company which has no property or which is minor, or the company has not complied with the Commercial Society Act. The deadline until which applications must be submitted for entry into the court register of all members of the limited liability society, and ultimately it is of paramount importance to say what the minister has also highlighted, so the provision of a new Article 40 which requires all founders, but also the person who will become members of the society to declare that he and the registration entity have no outstanding tax debts, and the debt from the basis of the contribution for pension or health insurance. And I will finally repeat, therefore, that since there are further improvements that will be even more regulated by the area in question, so the area of the rights of companies, and that this law is based on the latest draft of the law on commercial societies, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support its adoption and emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56285	SDP advocates' club, Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56286	Thank you, Mr. President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we expected the Proposer to submit the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice, because of the amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies from, or because of the Constitutional Court's decision. In particular, he looks forward finally and our tenacity has paid off, and the minister here speaks openly, which is certainly commendable, that we are returning to the Court Register Act a basic and just provision, that whoever remains in debt to any believer there should not make any difference, we must not distinguish between the creditors whether they are the state, the units of local self-government, suppliers, creditors, workers. So, all the believers need to know that the citizens or some craftsman are running a painful lawsuit, would it be fair, then, when all the legal remedies are more exhausted, when he succeeds in the case, that his debtor liquidates the company, it must not happen. Let's just remember in 2005 and the former prime minister who was thundering on that provision here, who said it was just a setback, that it was an obstacle, what we're looking for and what was in the law until then, the speed of enrolment in the Court Register. However, Croatia does not have such problems with the speed of enrolment, where it is fortunate that all procedures and all entries are so fast. We at the SDP Club are watching this law from the point of view of fighting corruption. It is known that individuals, individuals who have crushed the vast wealth of the '90s in who knows what ways, have long since no longer acted as individuals. Unfortunately, they work through legal persons, they hide behind legal persons, and that's why we're remembering the faraway 2002 introduced criminal legal responsibility of legal persons, because a legal person is something other than a natural person or founder. But that's not enough either. That's not enough, I'm appealing here to the motionor himself, most of all, the Ministry of Justice who has to see this problem, because the State's Attorney's office is detecting such situations where everything is formally fine and nothing is wrong. Because legal persons are only created to do one particular job. It was also in the '90s to see which person physically received the offices or some ministry, or in the state only a particular company would be formed. These great-grandmothers are clumsy, but now people who launder dirty money want to put it in legal flows, they do it through legal persons. Not only are they registered with us but anywhere, but let's keep an eye on the registration of such persons here. And that's why it seems to me that more attention needs to be paid to the people of the founders and to the public who stands behind a particular company. In order for the repressive authorities to first and foremost monitor the business of the financial police, the IRS can identify such legal persons. It is not rare that in areas where industry once flourished, where all these companies failed, where bankruptcy proceedings are conducted, and the most important and most valuable of their assets are just the fields. Where individuals start different companies to buy certain terrains, and everyone knows what's behind it and nothing can be done. So, in some ways, this can be done exactly in this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the amended 1st Directive, thus achieving that anyone without proving legal interest can make an insight into documents and data, not only through direct insight into the collection of documents but also by simply clicking on computer keys as it says here in the explanation. And there is simply no protection, no personal data, because whoever is involved in legal traffic can not be hidden behind such data. Therefore, not to repeat everything that is fundamentally evident and quite acceptable that the Law is changed in accordance with the amendments to the Law on Commercial Society, we welcome the particularly repatriation of the provision that we had after 2000 in order to bring all possible abuses, and the abuses that individuals make primarily by hiding behind legal persons are reduced to the least possible measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56287	Thank you. Club HNS HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56288	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and proposing representatives. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the Club of the Croatian People's Party, Liberal Democrats and the Croatian Party of Retired People, I would like to say that this is a law which, unfortunately, comes with great delay. I would dare say that only now have we come to a level when we recognize the standards that are relevant to the functioning of the register of courts, which if we recognized earlier and had implemented them would probably help us avoid a whole series of problems and also to rob the misuse of internal debt, the accumulation of companies that are unable to produce a new value, but only create debts and devour the substance of the Croatian economy. The law definitely comes with a great delay and it took us almost 15 years of monitoring, an existing legal framework in which companies operate to see but also to the end of the awareness of all the shortcomings of this legal framework which we now opt for not only amendments to the Law on Commercial Society, but also the Law on the Court Register. Had we previously had some of these solutions in our legislation, we would have probably avoided many of the problems that we had in the privatisation process and in the process of tycoonisation of Croatia, but also in the process that we can call the manipulation of legal norms that led to the fact that thanks to one school of opinions that was dominant in the formation of the original Law on Commercial Society, we actually directly defused public capital, in many cases we have given to the hands of completely under-grown young people who have made a fortune overnight to the large capital of companies that have taken up with political mentorship, and then, of course, thrown into the streets thousands and thousands of people, sold out property and today the prominent citizens of the Republic of Croatia instead of being in the category of criminals. There are several solutions that we want to particularly welcome and underline here, and that is the obligation to enroll all the founders of limited liability societies, because that actually created a situation in which there are no more secret partners and that we had this provision before, we would not have had that famous case of the fifth mate. Furthermore, we hold in particular the obligation to sign a special declaration by all founders of limited liability companies guaranteeing under material and criminal responsibility that they have all their debts to the State, but also to workers in their companies in which they have operated until then, or who have been led or owned by them, that they have settled them neatly. So this is about taxes and all the other taxes. This will help to stop or at least slow down, because in some things, the state cannot even resort to the incredible ingenuity of certain people who call themselves business people. So, stop the chain-based establishment of a company whose sole goal was to spill from hollow to empty, i.e. to extract capital from one company to another, the credit-loading of capital in one company, by extracting profits into another, by reselling material goods owned by one company and actually destroying almost entire branches of the economy as we witnessed in particular in the 1990s. This provision should in some ways prevent or narrow down the space that we have so far recognised as a space for money laundering, creating debts and pushing some companies into bankruptcy. We think that, thanks to such a lack of such a norm before, there was the creation of those famous business octopuses, groups that even the State's Attorney's Office in some cases that came to or crossed the crime scene, were difficult to trace and could hardly be reconstructed at all where all the business relations of the daughters, sisters' companies and all other criminal relatives' ties in the business environment range. We also think that in the context of the changes discussed yesterday, about the new rules regarding the performance that will allow the elimination of nearly 18,000 companies that are registered in the court register and the drone, which have no employees and which according to government data have sown about 12 billion internal debt, i.e. created a vast space of internal indifference of 12 billion cooks. So, in this context, all these measures together allow for a healthier development of the Croatian economy in the long term or at least its organisational framework in which it develops. We are also particularly important in keeping with the possibility that, with the electronic signature of entries, i.e. registration of companies and amendments to the decision on the establishment and other data to be entered into the register, it is now possible to carry out a spot through public notebooks which receive one additional dimension and additional responsibility by this regulation, because responsibility for verifying the regularity and legality of the registration procedure in most parts will now be transferred to the back of public notebooks. That is one new dimension of responsibility and I am sure that the Public Note Chamber is, in that sense, ready as all its members to accept that kind of new obligation. So far, we have simply had a situation where registers of particularly commercial courts interpret some other laws that are not at all competent. A very frigid situation that emerged in the so-called process. The cohabitation in a few seems to me 13 or 14 units of local and regional self-government, bearing in mind that it can also be manipulated through the register of commercial courts for political purposes. The directors of the registers of commercial courts took the right to interpret the Law on local and regional and regional self-government. And it has escalated to this extent that even the Constitutional Court that cut it must be involved, which, by making its decision, is mandatory for all, and then for commercial courts, created finally one situation in which one knows who drinks who pays. But I note, it is not yet understood in commercial courts as an obligation. Some trade courts still treat this as a university opinion of the Constitutional Court. How is it possible for the Commercial Court in Zagreb to request the entry of amendments to the decision on the establishment, e.g. in one case, it has held for more than 30 days, when it is known that the average is in the ordinary private, and this is about public capital, cases that the procedure does not last more than 15 days. Obviously, there are mechanisms that could be manipulated so far. I hope that this will no longer be so and that the trade courts' conferences will not be a political conference, that the consultants of these conferences will not have more rights than the legislators and that their opinion will not be above the opinion of the Constitutional Court. In this respect, we welcome the proposed amendments to the law and I announce that the HNS and HSU will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56289	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what our new justice minister said, and congratulations, this is the sixth or seventh amendment to the law on the court register, and really when we look at the changes that have been made so far, it seems to be a slow evolution of legislative provisions in this area. Why is that? Why, although it has been warned from many sides that abuse is due to the provisions previously made in the Law on the Court Register of Commercial Companies, which is why only now comes to say the real changes and changes that are likely to prevent a large part of the abuse in the sense of hiding, as Mrs Ingrid Antičević-Marinovich said, behind legal persons, those who in privatization and conversion have achieved what they have said, someone who has put the cave in place, and now act behind the back of legal persons of some others. Or as they like to say, those hide-and-seeks, donkeys who didn't hide. However, since here is quite late the adoption of such a Law on the Court Register and we are witnessing daily affairs and phenomena that just arise where crime flourishes, robbery precisely and because there are various companies, daughters' companies, daughters' companies, etc. Now, according to this Law on the Court Register, it is obvious that, as it says here, one click into the computer to see who is the owner, who is the name and last name behind certain companies. This mentions a statement made by such persons that they are not obliged, that they do not have outstanding obligations to the believers, whether it is the country where the tax goes and these obligations to pay for health, pension, etc., then to workers or suppliers. He says, under material and criminal responsibility, a statement. Is the statement itself, here I ask Mr. Minister, sufficient for any sanctions that I may follow if that statement is not correct, that is, the data in that statement unless they are correct. We are witnessing, as I have already said, numerous affairs and disclosures here and in all possible media how this is done when, for example, Someone's doing a reconstruction or repair of some American platform in one of our ports at sea. And then when you look at who's supposed to pay it to contractors or subcontractors, then it's found that there's a person who has contracted a job of 5, 6 companies, subcontractors, daughters companies, etc. And it just comes out of a mess where you don't know who's in charge and who's responsible for it can say crime or robbery freely. That is why I, in good faith and in faith for your good intentions, good intentions of the legislator, that this bill will bring about a certain order in this, although it has already done enormous damage to Croatian citizens, the economy, the economy, or particularly. Clearly, no one, as I can see from the debates of the clubs, can be against such a bill of amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register and so am I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56291	Thank you. Final review, Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56292	Thank you all very much for the discussion. Thank you for supporting this law. And we believe that it will lead to more order on the economic scene of our society and indeed a powerful tool in the fight against corruption and organised crime, because it will also enable the full reenactment of the OIB system, so what we have a limited-responsibility society will now be recorded in the Court Register and all members, all founders of these companies with limited responsibility. Here I just want to say that if there have been trade courts of certain wanderings in practice, I deeply believe that it was not from any particular motive but that it was actually from different interpretations and views of laws and therefore there is, of course, a Constitutional Court that if such things come to the Constitutional Court with their decisions, their own opinions to make some contribution to uniform practice. I immediately accept the amendment submitted by the Committee on the Legislatives of this House. Thanks to the board, this is how we fix our law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56293	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56294	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, the emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 583, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 103 votes, along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56295	We move to the next point - Proposed law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 585 The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Justice Ministry Tatjana Vučetic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs and MPs. The adoption of the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union is one of the criteria for closing accession negotiations with the European Union in Chapter 24. - Justice, freedom and security. This law fully harmonises domestic legislation with the acquis of the European Union on judicial cooperation in criminal matters. The proposed law would enter into force on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and it is also proposed to adopt an emergency law because there are particularly justified state reasons for this. The provisions of Council Decision No 584 of 13 June 2002 on a European arrest warrant and surrender procedure between Member States have been implemented primarily by this law, which makes it another criterion for closing accession negotiations with the European Union in Chapter 24 and Article 9(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The law also implements other framework decisions governing the application of the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union, the Council Framework Decision on the application of the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters, the Council Framework Decision on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation orders, the Council Framework Decision on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters, the Framework Decision of the Council on the application of the principle of mutual recognition in criminal proceedings, the Framework Decision of the Council on the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and the decision to monitor experimental measures and alternative sanctions, the Framework Decision of the Council on the European order for the acquisition of cases, documents and data for use in criminal proceedings, the Council's Framework Decision on Amendments and the Framework Decisions in order to strengthen the procedural rights of persons and to promote the application of the principle of recognition of the decisions taken in respect of the decisions taken in respect of the decisions taken in respect of the judgments. Since criminal and legal cooperation between Member States of the European Union is based on assumptions that differ significantly from the traditional system of international legal assistance compared to those framework decisions, the harmonisation of Croatian legislation has been carried out in particular in view of the regulation of the following institutions of the administrative system. Legal basis for handing over Croatian citizens in accordance with the conditions laid down in Framework Decision 584 of 13 June 2002 European arrest warrant. The principle of mutual recognition, as well as simplified procedures for the recognition and enforcement of judicial cooperation instruments, are strictly defined deadlines for handling, restricting the grounds for refusing to recognise a foreign court decision, the full affirmation of judicial authorities in the process of recognising foreign court decisions while the role of the executive body is reduced to a minimum and is linked to most of the instruments with the provision of administrative support and facilitating judicial cooperation. Direct communication of judicial authorities and the catalogue of criminal offences against which there is no application of the principle of mutual punishment. It is a list of 32 criminal offences in respect of which the competent judicial authority of the executing State cannot call for the fact that they are not prescribed as offences in domestic law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56297	Thank you. The Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on European Integration? I'm opening a debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Mr. Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56298	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. The proposed law is the result of the constitutional changes we have recently voted here in the Croatian Parliament, in particular Article 9(2) of the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and is also the consequence of the opening and conclusion of Chapter 24 concerning the completion of the judicial negotiation process. The above-mentioned bill, which is before us, excludes the traditional international legal aid in the Republic of Croatia, etc. small international legal aid when the Republic of Croatia complied with the requests of the requesting State in a way that sought reciprocity. So if the Republic of Croatia asked for the same extradition of citizens or international legal aid, it was seen whether the requesting state would meet the same requirement to the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a law which is first and foremost in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with European Union legislation on the European arrest warrant and in the procedures of surrender between the Member States of the European Union. In relation to those framework decisions, the legal basis for the surrender of Croatian citizens is introduced in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 and the principle of mutual recognition is introduced, and simplified procedures for the recognition and enforcement of judicial cooperation instruments between the Member States of the European Union. Direct communication of judicial authorities is introduced, and a list of criminal offences is introduced against which there is no application of the principle of mutual punishment. That list of criminal offences shall have 32 criminal offences which are not subject to the procedure of verifying whether the same act is criminal in the Member State of the European Union. It is particularly important to stress that this bill will come into force on the day when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. In addition to the European arrest warrant in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, the following Council Framework Decisions should be implemented: Council Framework Decision of 22 July 2003 on the implementation of the order for the provision of property and evidence in the European Union, Council Framework Decision of 24 February 2004 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of monetary penalties, Council Framework Decision of 6 October 2006 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation orders, Council Framework Decision of 27 November 2008 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters with a view to the supervision of conditional measures and alternative sanctions, Council Framework Decision on European orders for the procurement of cases, data documentation for enforcement in criminal proceedings, and framework decisions adopted in respect of decisions adopted by the Council in accordance with Articles 26 and 26 of the Rules of Procedure. That draft law lays down the application of the principle of mutual recognition as fundamental judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union, and the principle in question comes from a high level of trust between the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the members of the European Union, in a way that the judicial authorities now communicate directly under this proposal, that the role of the executive authorities is i.e. the role of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia only in the form of coordinators between the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. This will result in a faster and more effective implementation of the punishment of those offences provided for by this European arrest warrant, avoiding the long-term process of extradition of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, or of citizens of the European Union who have committed crimes in either part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, in the area of any of the members of the European Union. That law is therefore ensured by the constitutional changes of the Republic of Croatia, when the Republic of Croatia believes very soon to be a member of the European Union, all the conditions for fulfilling the European arrest warrant and all the framework decisions of the Council of the European Union, which are proposed under this draft law, will be met. The Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes this law, this law is necessary when our country becomes a member of the European Union, it will avoid mistrust in the Croatian judiciary, it will avoid the small international legal aid which has stalled the extradition and punishment of persons who have committed crimes, and it is very important that all those crimes provided for by the European arrest warrant and proposed convention, where this procedure is avoided, such as belonging to criminal organisation, terrorism, human trafficking, corruption, illicit trafficking, money laundering, counterfeiting, computer crime, fraud, racketeering, extortion and piracy of products, etc., that I do not now read all these 32 acts that will speed up punishment, extradition, and shorten this legal process of persons who have committed criminal acts. The HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament supports this bill that we will vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56299	Thank you. HNS representative club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56300	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us one of those laws that we expected immediately after the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Croatian Constitution. On our way to full membership in the European Union, we meet a whole series of new standards, both in formulating an empty system, a system that is the basis for the functioning of the rule of law, and for establishing new standards in a whole series of elements of our judicial practice. One of the very important institutes that we call judicial cooperation in criminal matters is certainly a European arrest warrant which is one of the main elements that is governed by this law, and we must be aware that this law is not directly related to the interests of other countries as it is with the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We must be aware that in the modern world no state, so neither the Republic of Croatia is nor can the Republic of Croatia be an island that is possible to isolate from the execution of crimes which will not have its tracks, trails and tails in other countries. We are simply in such a place where, for a whole series of reasons, the risks we are exposed to because of the traffic position, but also all of those challenges of the transition economy, all the challenges of the political environment are also the relapse of the Homeland War, so we are definitely one of the countries that is a good goal or target for many perpetrators of internationally profiled forms of crime. On the other hand, the general principle of reciprocity in the countries of the European Union is one of the main ways of working so that the European Union can create itself as a space of security, not as a fragmented space of individual sanctuary for those who think that cross-border crime can actually benefit themselves, damage to their country, and then find refuge elsewhere. Our experience, especially in recent years when we have been on the road and in, as a target of international organised crime, speaks in favor of our need to harmonize our legal system and in this sense, but we must also be aware that many perpetrators of crimes that are actually in a strange way, perhaps with political mentorship, and perhaps only with corruption tools have come to Croatian passports, operate in a way that is actually difficult to commit crimes in other countries and thus bring the Republic of Croatia rarely to the headlines or the pillar of shame, in black chronicles of the media, in other countries, and when that happens, it is only then that we realize that these people have anything to do with Croatian citizenship at all. Likewise, we are interested that the Republic of Croatia is just because of its transition profile, experience, and, in many things, unspecified elements of the rule of law, there is no room for savagery or for the operation of criminals from other countries, and then by finding shelters in a third country to prevent them from being sanctioned. In any case, every experience we have, our vulnerable position geostrategic, our traffic position, all of this is in favour of raising standards of international cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, but also with other Member States with which we regulate it, in particular in recent times bilateral agreements. This is the law of the so-called law. The European package, and one of the essential conditions, was so important that it was valid and should have been introduced into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense we think that this matter is well arranged for now, that the certificate signed by the two State Secretarys of Justice, the current Minister, the recent State Secretary, also from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, provides a certain guarantee, and we hope that this law will not return to do so, or that teams in both ministries have done their job properly, unlike some of the experiences we had with some previous regulations, where we have been returned three or four times because some small marritelle has tried a conto non-taminant translation or some formulations that were not actually a European legal virtue to grind a special legal hole in our own legislation. Honestly, in the hope that this large legal text does not suffer from any of these problems, the HSN and HSU Club provide support and will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56301	Thank you. Final review? There's no need. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56302	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, the emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 585, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted unanimously with 101 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56303	We are going to the next item - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the procedure of handing over authorities, second reading, P.Z. No. 500 is proposed by the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, you received reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Management Pavle Maticic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the handover of the Government is related to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests on the conduct of public duties, so it may have been better if we first discussed this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and then the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Handling of Authorities. However, regarding this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities, I would like to say that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities was discussed in the first reading at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in February of this year. This Final Proposal for a Law is proposed to amend Article 7. The law in a way to delete part of the provision of Article 7(1). The Act on the procedure of handing over authorities which are prescribed that state officials who are presidents and members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies, for which the Croatian Parliament has established that they are of particular national interest to make members of those bodies available to the body that appointed them. Since the law suggests that the final draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, state officials will no longer be able to be members of the supervisory board of commercial companies. It is also proposed to establish that state officials who are members of the administrative boards of the institutions and the supervisory committees of the extra budget funds shall put a mandate at the disposal of the body that appointed them. Moreover, since the proposed amendments to the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties propose that members of the supervisory committees, i.e. boards of commercial companies in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority stake, or majority share is appointed by the main assembly or assembly of the company on a proposal from the Government after the previous public tender, this proposal proposes that those members of supervisory boards or boards make membership available to the Government as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56305	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, Constitution, Rules of Procedure, political system? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56306	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I am reporting for a debate on behalf of the SDP Club on the grounds that the SDP Club had objections to this Act in its first reading, and I must say that I am glad that the Proposer has respected the SDP Club's remarks and that they are incorporated into the Final Proposal of this Law. The proposal, i.e. the comments of the SDP Club, referred to that since the new proposal would elect members of the Supervisory Board in a way that the public tender would then be chosen, the SDP Club's request that the elected members of the Supervisory Boards be elected after the end of the term of office of the Government which proposed them to give their mandate at the disposal of the new Government. We are pleased that this is appreciated, as we are pleased that the other things in this Act have been improved, i.e. that the handover of the authorities to both members of the boards of directors and members of the supervisory boards of extra budget funds. I think it's important that just a few months of discussion is being held about this law, the procedure is being conducted around these amendments and additions, it's good that we have this now on the agenda because obviously elections are approaching and the expected handover of the authorities. This is important to us in the SDP because, first of all, this law and these amendments to the Law, in a more democratic and civilised way, are still being added to the future handover of the authorities, and as we see it today in the SDP, and we think that the majority of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are important to edit this issue in detail because the next elections will indeed bring true and real handover to the government when it is not only from the hands of one government to another government, but it will be the handover of the government of a single political bloc in the Government of another political bloc, and therefore it is important to do so in detail now to ensure that this transfer is made to one truly democratic and civilized way, and I hope that this law will help to help us in the coming years and perhaps earlier and through this Law that these changes of power from the HDZ and its partners will be better and easier to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56307	Thank you. The club of HDZ Representatives Mrs. Ana Lovrin. HNS-A HSU representative club Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56308	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. We have a very short text of the legislative proposal which actually allows the handover procedure of the authorities to be carried out in a polite and orderly manner and when it comes to people who, in the name of the owner, act on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, following the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, act as members of the Supervisory Boards, or the Management Boards of Commercial Companies, in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority package of shares or majority stakes, and it is quite clear that the Government, which wins most of the votes or the trust of the Croatian Parliament, has the possibility of affecting the implementation of its own policy and within that system, but provided that the criteria of political similarity finally expires, and more and more effectively stimulates the criteria of expertise, or that the criteria of expertise are combined with the criteria of responsibility for public funds. Because sometimes neither political similarities nor expertise can guarantee that it is people who understand what is responsible for the management of public funds, public capital. Sometimes some of them do not realize that the state has given them control over the capital that is owned by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What we certainly cannot be satisfied is the rhythm or time itself promised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to enter the process of depoliticalising the supervisory boards, so that deadline is delayed from month to month. And here's the latest promise to work on that in the fall. It is about the government of the Republic of Croatia's promise that it will go through the Institute of Public Competitions to appoint members of the Supervisory and Management Boards. It should also learn something about what the government has done to define clear criteria, on which it can call and conduct public tenders at all, because they will be key. Because formally someone may have brilliant formal data that refer to the ability to behave important duties in managing public capital but these data do not have to speak what is the metric, and that is how real the person concerned is in quality governance and public capital management. It will not be simple and I have a feeling that the first kittens will be thrown into the sea, as the people would say, because they will only be able to build a system in which the criteria of one, practice and procedures on the other hand will allow for the choice of quality people. We need to be aware that there are a whole series of limiting factors, because we get quality, successful people who deal with public capital management under these conditions, and we are still serving them today by restricting their practical ability to act, and even when they are chosen in public procurement in a way that we treat them as a politically elected person or person chosen by political will, we need to be aware that this will directly affect both the number and the quality of those who will be offered as possible solutions to membership in supervisory and management committees. It should try, but what we do not want to forget, that no institute or public tender institute can and must not reduce the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the functioning of public enterprises owned by the Republic of Croatia. The public tender must not be an alibi for any cases of future Podravka, Croatian highways, Croatian electricity industry. The state must build a mechanism or government must be aware of its full responsibility, that when it chooses a public tender it must provide guarantees that it is people who will manage capital in the way of a good master and will not be able to, despite all these changes, monitor the hands of responsibility. So we remind responsibility is always on the government because it is she who makes the final decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56309	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary of the Ministry of Administration Paval Maticic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56310	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The government thanks for the debate, which was relatively brief on this Law on the handover of authorities and on the support of this law, and we hope that the Parliament will also adopt the Final Proposals of the Law on... the handover of the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56311	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56312	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure of handing over authorities, second reading, P.Z. No. 500, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 97 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56313	We are going to the next item - Business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2009 The submiter of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The applicant shall be the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families on the basis of Article 8. Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session. Representative of the proposal of the Ministry of Secret Funds Zoran Komar. Here, an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You have a regular annual business report on the work of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2009. As the report shows in 2009 the Croatian Defence Fund continued to be very successful and the final outcome of this successful business was achieved in 2009 out of 247.6 million kuna. The Fund has dealt with special emphasis on the security and liquidity of assets, and the appropriateness of the contribution compared to the risks of investments taken, and all according to the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The total net value of the Croatian Defence Fund in 2009 and at the end of 2009 was 2.2 billion kuna, while the value of each share was 723.31 kuna, which is a significant increase compared to the year before. At the end of 2008, the total value of the stake was 569.79 kuna. Thanks to successful business in 2008 in 2009 according to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, a third net profit was paid to fund members totalling 66.9 million kuna, and according to the same law, the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders was financed, so in 2009 it was spent thanks to the positive business of the fund a total of 66.9 million kuna for a total of 10 thousand 222 scholarships to high school students and students of Croatian defenders' children. Based on all the information provided, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this report, the 2009 Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56315	Thank you. The War Veterans Committee? I'm opening a debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community's club welcomes this report, which is commendable as well as the work of the fund that actually contributes to better status and shares that Croatian defenders have. In fact, it is clear that the value of the fund at these times is 2 billion 297 thousand 789 kuna and that each share today with 500 and some kuna in 2008 has increased to 723.31 kuna and is certainly worth a satisfied Croatian defender. The dividend that is divided from 1/3 net gains as well as that belonging to Croatian defenders who are weaker property status, which meet the possibility of using a scholarship i.e. Their children, or those who go to school alone, are certainly grateful, and have passed the 30,000 scholarships that were made possible by children to school and to graduate from college. All of this is a report that clearly shows the quality of the management of the fund, as well as the management society of the fund. Also, strict concern has been taken to allow Croatian defenders to have security for education in order to have security in the ownership stakes, allowing for those differences to be used and to find other shares, to settle everything they need. Investment, as you can see from the report, are in repo jobs, in records,... the records and that interest has also earned more than 70 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It must be commendable to say that it all goes in favor of the fund and their users. In all, the Croatian Democratic Community club welcomes this report. We can say that we are satisfied with how the fund works impeccably, without any objections that would come from the independent audit carried out by Deloitte. Surely all the troubles that were directed at malfeasances in this fund, in some kind of money pump, are shot blank because it is clearly seen that it is positive, stable and progressive, that it is not possible to bring it down and that it will be lasting in favour of Croatian defenders. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes and supports this Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56317	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56318	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have before us a Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2009. So this is about the strongest fund in the country that has ever done a successful job since the draft. This business report shows that the value of the fund's assets is currently 2 billion and 297 million kuna, that in the past 2009 the fund has gained a profit of 25% higher than in 2008, that the value of the share of the individual in the Croatian Defence Fund is 723 kuna and that it has increased almost 30% compared to 2008. So these are financial indicators that confirm that the fund is more than successful and thanks to this success of the fund's operations, funds have been provided for the fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders and the Croatian Defence Fund. What will especially cheer us up is that in this school academic year 2009/2010. be paid for 10 thousand and 257 student and high school scholarships for children of Croatian defenders. Otherwise, over the past three years, more than 20,000 scholarships have been secured from the Scholarship Fund, nearly 120 million kunas have been paid for that purpose. The same is true of the Croatian Defence Fund, which has paid for the aid of humanitarian and social character for Croatian defenders of over 50 million kuna over the past three years. Therefore, these two trust funds show the benefit of defenders from the existence of the Croatian Defence Fund. I also believe that this business report is transparent and complete and that is why I will accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56319	Thank you very much. It is up to debate representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56320	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I have to do this, when the fund was set up, there were ominous forecasts that there wouldn't be any funding, that it was just a form, that it was a project that had no perspective, but it was a government project, and that government project was totally successful. The Croatian Defence Fund through the Association for Management of the Croatian Defence Fund and under the supervision of the board of directors has been a positive one, with profits obtained from the business before tax of 247.6 million kuna. In 2009, the Croatian Defence Fund dealt with special emphasis on the security and liquidity of assets and the appropriateness of the contribution in relation to taking the risk of investment, all in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. Business indicators from the Croatian Defence Fund in 2009 suggest an increase in total income compared to the previous year, with an amount of 253.2 million kuna. In the same reporting period, total expenditure was reduced from 2008 to 5.6 million kuna. The net value of the Croatian Defence Fund at the end of 2009 was 2.2 billion kuna, and the value of one share was 723.31 kuna, which was an increase in the value of the share compared to the end of 2008 when the value of the share was 569.79 kn. During 2009, the Croatian Defence Fund made payments to the owners of 793 million kuna and to pay dividends to the owners of the 2008 profits of HRK 66.9 million. The Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War in the course of 2000 from one third of the dividend amounted to HRK 66.9 million. Well, I don't think there's any reason why this proposal shouldn't be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56321	Thank you very much, everyone who discussed it. The applicant's representative has no need to expose anything. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56322	Business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2009, the applicant of the act is the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting in the statement: "The Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2009. a year." Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund was accepted by most votes, 97 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56323	And we're going to the next item on the agenda. We skip a little bit more than usual because of the conditions that must be met in order to hold a debate at the plenary session. We are going to a point with these conditions, which is - Report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2009 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This report was submitted by the Government pursuant to Article 38 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The island law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would anyone like to further explain the proposal? Here we have Mr Mario Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56324	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This report is based on the Law on Islands, and is co-ordinated and systematic measures implemented by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and other Croatian ministries, bodies of the state administration and the public sector for the sustainable development of Croatian islands. Jobs of coordination of all these activities and only the report was carried out by the Department for the Island and Coastal Development of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, what to say in the end of 2009 in which a billion and 400 million kuna were invested in Croatian islands. In conversation with the islanders, the first theme of the island's land connection is always inevitable. I think it's the most done here. Perhaps a bit confident but after 20 years of work in the maritime administration, then I can really say that during the 2004 period, especially during 2008 and the ninth years we did the most in the quality and secure integration of Croatian islands with the mainland. It has not been one year in which Jadrolini and other shipmen have not received at least one new ship, much bigger and more comfortable than previous ships, so we can freely say that the islanders are sailing much more comfortable. No more of those old carampan as the islanders say, which is why we have often received protest letters. Looking at the volume of sailing in 2009, ships in public coastal transport traveled a million and 400 thousand miles. I'll try to paint this for you from Split to New York is a distance of 4500 miles, which means that ships in public coastal transport connected the islands with about 320 trips from Split to New York. I must stress that all the discounts we've voted for for the islanders have remained with difficulties and recession times, and these discounts are not at all questionable. Another important segment for life on islands and linking the island to the mainland is the port system and, in general, the infrastructure on islands in which about 2 billion kuna is invested. Our islanders often say that the most port was made at the time of Austro-Hungarian. However, in this period from 2004 to 2009, which is much shorter than the period of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, far more ports were made. 63 ports on the islands are either built or reconstructed, so that the main problems of connection and port systems can be shown practically solved. What is still done on Croatian islands, what is perhaps the most important, which is the promotion of the economy, economic facilities have been built and we are particularly proud of the measures we have taken to encourage employers on the islands to hire new employees. It took care of the children. Over 40 schools were built on Croatian islands, numerous facilities of health and social importance. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, something about demographic relations, or movements on islands, which are mainly why all these measures are being carried out. When we hear that show about the islands of thousands of pearls accompanied by the faint sound of the ship's siren, I think these islands will really be pearls and will remain pearls if they're found on them, if there are living people on them. From 1857 to 2001, the number of people on the islands fell significantly. The largest decline is recorded from 1948 to 1981. Even some years and 30,000 inhabitants fell compared to 1921 when the largest decline in Croatian islands was recorded. Thank God these last few years, that demographic downturn, that white plague has been stopped. In the first row of the big islands, on islands that are crossed over to say so, on the islands to which the bridges were built, and the negative trends are only recorded on the far coastal islands. I believe that these measures we are implementing, especially in linking the quality of islands and land, will certainly improve the situation, that this negative trend will certainly stop and then we will be able to freely say that these measures were not in vain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56325	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No one. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first one is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, who will be represented by Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56326	Dear Madam Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleague Boric, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the impact report on the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2009, because this report shows the systematic concerns of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or better said about life on, for life on Croatian islands to promote the economy on Croatian islands, and for demographic restoration on Croatian islands. The law on Croatian islands whose impact through this report can be established is based on the national programme of sustainable development of the island, which was adopted in 1997, which was again based on Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says that care for the Croatian islands is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. What we can find from this statement and this report is that in the past year in the Croatian islands, from all positions of ministries and public enterprises and institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia, billions and 480 million kuna are invested, of which about a billion and 200 million grants are available, and somewhere around 300 million kuna are transferred approved loans under favourable conditions by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This amount of billions and 200 million kuna, however, is somewhat lower than in the past 2008 but it is clear to us that the high level of investment that was in 2007, 2008 given the economic crisis, the recession had a certain stop in 2009, but when it is said that in the past 6 years since these reports have been delivered to the Croatian islands, it has been invested in building infrastructure, whether communal, or social, whether in economic subsidies and various other areas, then we can really say that in the past 6 years, a very big step has been made in caring for the development of Croatian islands. Most of the funds allocated last year for Croatian islands are aimed at subsidising maritime transport on the one hand, which is a maritime transport in the function of connecting Croatian islands, but also at building other unnecessary, or necessary conditions for this transport maritime transport to be as high as possible and better connected to Croatian islands. This better traffic connection is reflected primarily in the higher frequency and frequency of lines for individual islands. A short time ago, the secretary of state stated that last year, the shipowners who connected the Croatian islands over a million and 400 thousand nautical miles and that in the past 6 years this increase was about 45% compared to the state that was then found, therefore a significant number of lines, their frequency and thus the Croatian islands are certainly better connected, and in particular I want to highlight the introduction of night lines for larger Croatian islands, so that 90% of islanders, if I can say so almost uninterrupted without that night break connected to the mainland, which is one of the important and important reasons for a better life of the island. Vinjets for islanders are also introduced, i.e. vinjets for vehicles registered on the island and whose owner has a residence on the island. It is important to point out that 68 ports were built during this period and most of these ports were primarily in the traffic connection function of the Croatian island, and when I mention the ports, it does not matter whether it was built on Croatian islands or built on land if it is in a traffic connection function of Croatian islands. What is also important to highlight, when I talk about better transport connection of the island, it is certainly a renewal of the fleet, all shipping involved in maritime transport, but primarily the national shipowner of Jadrolinija, which has significantly restored, rejuvenated the fleet, introduced new, larger ships, so that with 12 new purchases it has actually made a major step towards the transport of Croatian islands. If we know that about 150,000 people live on Croatian islands, if we know that during the year Croatia's islands visit about 2 million tourists, then certainly the assumption of returning inhabitants to Croatian islands or the arrival of the largest number of tourists is primarily this better traffic connection. The second part of the funds participated in this report is certainly investment in municipal infrastructure, and we discussed in the Assembly a few days ago the Law on Confirmation of Loans for the construction of municipal and social infrastructure on the Croatian islands, which was provided by means and state budgets of the Council of Europe, where we said that 105 facilities were built on the same period on the Croatian islands, which certainly contributed to better living conditions on the Croatian islands, because what we should single out is that among these 105 facilities are certainly the most participatory facilities of municipal infrastructure facilities and, therefore, water supply and disposal of waste water. A large number of social infrastructure facilities in the Croatian islands were built either through this project I mentioned earlier or on special transfers from the state budget towards local self-government units. What I would like to point out in particular is that thanks to these projects precisely to a large number of funds being transferred from the state budget in order to build any municipal or social infrastructure on the Croatian islands, it is very important to contribute to the development of local or municipal or urban administrations on certain islands, because many of these units of local self-government on the Croatian islands that were created after the adoption of the Law on County, Towns and Towns in 1993 appeared and formed as units of local self-government and their first challenge and encounter with significant investments were just through these projects that I was talking about so far. In order for these projects to be realised at all, and to achieve this systematic concern towards the Croatian Islands, one of the most important steps in the state administration was to establish a competent management for the development of the island at the Ministry who is constantly, on a daily basis, constantly monitoring the implementation of these projects on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the one hand, keeping watch over all other legislative regulations brought by this high home, regardless of whether these laws that are passed only from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure or proposed by the rest of the ministries. Namely, any law that touches the issue of life in the Croatian islands necessarily passes through the verification of this administration, makes a significant contribution to more systematic care for the Croatian islands and harmonisation of regulations that must be in line with the national programme of sustainable development of the Croatian Islands. What is certainly more important to highlight are projects and subsidies that encourage the development of Croatian islands. A short time ago, Mr. Secretary of State spoke of encouraging employment in the Croatian Islands, and I would like to point out that through the regulation on the provision of small-value support to entrepreneurs in the Croatian Islands, it is indeed supported, i.e. by island employers, to start a new cycle of employment because for the islands of the first group, which are those islands that we can place in the category of less developed islands, for each employee employed in the private and rural sector from the state budget, one monthly gross salary is transferred to their employer, and for those developed islands, for larger Croatian islands, this amount is at the level of half the average gross salary paid by the employee to the employer. It is also important to highlight as a significant economic project it is the introduction of a project called Croatian island product which has been implemented within the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure for three years and which makes a significant contribution to branding Croatian island products and we have witnessed that just from the Croatian islands come truly exceptional quality products in either part of agriculture, whether in part of the food technology etc. So by a series of subsidies directed towards the economy according to all kinds of life on the Croatian islands, it seeks to justify, fill out that constitutional category that I mentioned at the beginning. So, let me conclude, through this report, which first contains a textual description of the effect, so not only with squeamish data and figures but in its final part shows one text piece of what a measure has done for the development of the Croatian islands. We can say that through this report it is very visible that the Law on Croatian Islands has made a significant step in improving life on the Croatian islands. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community Club will also support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56327	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56328	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. And this year, the SDP Club will support the Impact Report implementing the Island Act, so we think that the Report is good, comprehensively, the effects of how, we have some minor remarks on the Report but they are not to the extent that they would now decide somehow a different vote on this report. So, although the point is called the Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act, it is doubtless that once a year we are discussing this item on the agenda in fact quite a broader topic, Mr Bacic said before. So we're discussing not only the effects of the Island Law but we're discussing an annual inventory of what the state is doing to improve life on the islands. In addition, the national development programme of the island was adopted in the last century of 1997, giving some of the goals to be achieved, therefore, it is not bad to read them sometimes to remember. Therefore, the goals are to maintain life, to promote demographic rebirth and economic progress, and to preserve the harmony of unsurpassed natural values. As far as we've done in the past year and past years, there's likely to be some difference in opinion. So the fact is that life on the islands is maintained, it develops in one part well, in one part less well, anyway as in the whole society. The 2011 census results, I think, that this is one of the next points of the agenda will eventually show how successful it was in that demographic part of the policy, and about the quality of life on the islands can also be seen by everyone from their perspective, some like it to be peaceful so they are on islands, and some unfortunately don't like to be calm, so they run away from the island or are unhappy with life. As for demographic rebirth, so another goal for the national development program of the island, we can't talk about rebirth, I don't think there's any baby boom that can be seen on the Croatian islands. So I think it's one stagnation, and with some slight increase or slight decline, I'm saying it's going to show the next census. The list of voters is growing, but it's growing all over the country, so there's no indication. As far as economic progress is concerned, it is one of the most difficult tasks to achieve. This is difficult to achieve in the country at least this government, let alone on islands that have their specificities and special conditions in which the economy can develop. Starting with the conditions concerning spatial planning, special working conditions in the season, etc. but those difficulties in transporting the product, which then collects the final price of those products on the islands. The harmony of unsurpassed natural values as one task that is also from the national development program of the island is only what does not depend too much on us, so here we can spoil that nature has given us or God as he believes. So this one treasure we have is our job to preserve it for future generations in the best possible way. And Mr. President, as the MPs are already preparing for the islands, would you please quiet them down a little bit. I noticed in the opening statement both government representatives and representatives of the HDZ Club that more often than before, only the 2004-2009 period was mentioned. But the fact is that a lot has been done and the subsequent amendment of the Island Act has been passed from 2000 to 2003, and it has also been done from 1999 to 2000, and it can then be returned 10 years back, because it is a decade when it was from 1981 to '91. Because that's when the population on the islands increased by about 12 grand, that's about 11% somewhere. Therefore, when it comes to islands, the timeline should not always be limited to certain mandates or political or other movements. So let's show a little bit of width in that policy. I will remember that the director of the Board of Islands in the coalition work that made SDP a member of the HSS, and today he is a member of the HNS coalition with HDZ. So, a comprehensive one, right, Mr. Bacic. So a comprehensive wide range of political orientations regarding politics towards islands aimed at improving Croatian islands. I deeply believe that this is the goal of this government, and its ability or incompetence depends on whether this improvement will be good, better or worse. So the total amount of investment for the islands in the last year fell. He fell from last year. So the biggest exports so far have been recorded in the 2007 pre-election year. This is one goal that will be a challenge for any government to achieve in this and next year, that these investments, according to this methodology, are now being calculated back to the level of 2007. Very often, in discussions on the budget of looking at some of the items directly related to the islands compared to the 2007 items, they have been significantly reduced compared to other items. We can actually say that the islanders and their guests have endured, endure in this context savings and crises than other citizens do. But let's just say we're used to it, so we'll try to change that. One specific budgetary item was also spoken of by the State Secretary and the current and is the former budgetary item of the Coast and Line Transport Agency. Therefore, those agencies whose items subsidise ferry lines carried out by Jadrolini as a state shipowner or some other shipowners who win the concession. My opinion that the state of integration of Croatian islands is both in the season and outside the season at a satisfactory level, that it may be slightly improved, that not that standard should not be reduced independently of the events that occur around us, or when savings should be saved, save on some other items. So if you need to build some school or some port to extend for a year, it's less damage than canceling one ferry line, because it's now reducing the quality of life of citizens on the islands. In this context, I understand the protest of representatives of the local self-government island of Hvar because the only island that suffered a significant reduction of ferry lines was Hvar Island. And by abolishing one ferry departure from Split to Stari Grad in winter, there is a significant decrease in the connection of the island to the mainland. Once you could think about introducing the night line Split Stari Grad but throughout the year it only works in the summer. However, given the events and costs that the line would have, this request is not current at the moment. With regard to transport quality, transport speed, ship quality, we should also commend Jadrolinija and other shipmen who have an impact on this quality that significant steps have been made. Several things that torture the islanders and do not concern directly the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, have already been said several times, corrected in an incorrect quote and again, so this is the functioning of health care on the islands, that is, the Government's 2003 decision to abolish the health homes, and then by the 2004 Parliament's decision to return them, and not by implementing that decision, so once again the appeal of local self-government on islands, regardless of which year and which county it is concerned, to consider whether the health homes should return to the islands during that organisational period. The other thing is the formation of port administrations, island port administrations. So, in some counties, since that's the jurisdiction of the county, which is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56329	Please, if we can hold on a little bit. We'll finish this agenda in no time, and then we'll go to the polls. I'm also asking the MPs and the MPs to come into the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56330	So the other thing is the formation of port administrations on the islands, so the county normally doesn't like to do that. I think it would be a good idea that although it is the county's jurisdiction, they are organised differently within the county and that the port administrations are for each island in particular in which they could take better care of the port infrastructure on the islands. One thing that's also significant is the territorial structure. There are often talk of a reduction in the number of municipalities, but the fact is that many of the island's environments, by obtaining their municipalities, have also been given an opportunity for accelerated development than it would have been if only one municipality on an island, for example Krk and Brač have 7, 8 municipalities, Hvar has 4. I think that when it comes to rationalising and reducing the number of municipalities that this should not be applied definitely to the islands, because then from one municipality that has a great chance of development and one that may have a less chance of developing one that has no chance of developing, because first of all, they would not be able to agree on how some means would be distributed, and on the other hand, they would not even have a chance to fight to a greater extent for their interests. Therefore, I think that such a territorial structure on islands within the islands is good, but there is no link on the islands that have more municipalities to do things together, and in this context perhaps you should consider what can be changed in the law to formalize such things. And finally, for the 2009 budget, the islands were unfortunately, the islanders became a collateral victim of public opinion in that some relations in HDZ changed and then the reduction, a significant reduction in the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and a more significant reduction in the items for the islands was interpreted in the context of some internal developments in HDZ. It would be good, therefore, to appeal to public opinion, and to the actors that such things are no longer broken over the back of the islanders. And finally, here is when there is already one more relaxed topic in the Assembly, so when the MPs are preparing for a quick trip to the islands, I use the opportunity to congratulate one of the island clubs who won the Istre and Kvarner Melodias with a song about islands, ticks salt from Pag plus those congratulations. Hoping to be better for Croatia's islands next year, the SDP club will accept this report in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-09-0.u56331	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to an individual debate. It's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic first. She's gone. It's Tatjana Shimac-Bopnacic. She's not here either. Then we exhausted the speakers at this agenda point, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2009, applicant: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the conclusion that it reads. "A report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2009 is hereby adopted. year." Let's please get involved and vote on the report. Score. This Report on the effects of implementing the Law on Islands in 2009 was adopted by the majority of votes, 100 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
