ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52126	Good morning, distinguished MPs and MPs. We continue with the work of the 17th session of the Croatian Parliament. And we agreed to continue today with the proposal for a decision on accession to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so I would see one hand raised. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52127	Mr. Vice President, I refer to article 173. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and I would ask you to ensure the implementation of the Rules of Procedure as chairman. Last November 20th, I submitted a proposal for a credible interpretation of the Law on Property and other real rights to the President of the Croatian Parliament. All deadlines have passed in which the procedure was to be completed, and there is no response or procedure from the parent board and the Legislative Committee. Therefore, I ask that, in accordance with Articles 172 and 173. The Rules of Procedure shall ensure that the rights of attorneys are respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52128	I'll secure it right away, so here's the board president. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At today's session of the Legislative Committee, this particular issue was foreseen as a item of the agenda. So, it's all set, the deadlines are respected. The Legislative Committee and all members and outside members shall share the relevant material, including the proposal of the honourable representative and will therefore be discussed and decided at the next session. So I believe that in this sense absolutely the Rules of Procedure is not injured and the Committee on Law will meet its business obligation very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52130	Thank you. So, we move to the first item of the agenda, which is - The proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Proposer: The Committee for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Proposal for an act has been accepted into the boxes. The government has submitted a decision to accept this proposal as a proposal from the government, which is divided into benches. The debate was conducted by the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia. You've received reports at the session, or they'll be here any minute. The amendment was submitted by Dragutin Lesar. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Vice-President of the House Vladimir Seks and Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 47th session held on 20 April of this year, on the basis of its competence referred to in Article 57(1), paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is prescribed that, in the procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee prepared proposals for relevant acts, held a debate on the Proposal for a Decision on Accession, amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Introductoryly, the Committee president reminded members of the current course of constitutional changes and pointed out that on 1 October 2009, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was discussed by the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 38th session of 13 October 2009, and proposed to the Croatian Parliament most of the votes to accept the decision on the accession of the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the draft decision was concluded at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 14 October 2009, but was not voted on because it was agreed to stop the procedure until the announced Proposal for a Decision on Accession of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by a group of 52 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a decision of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system discussed it at the 39th session of 20 October 2009, and unanimously accepted the conclusion that the proposal of 52 MPs in the Croatian Parliament was accepted to approach the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. After the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on Accession of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the Group of 52 MPs in the Croatian Parliament at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 22 October 2009, the Assembly did not vote on the motions for decisions but was found to be set up by a parity working group and working group composed of Vladimir Seks, Josip Leko, Ana Lovrin, Emil Tomljanović, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Goran Beus-Richembergh, Neven Mimica, Stanko Grčić, Milorad Pupovac and Marin Brkarić sought to find common solutions and formulate the joint agreed Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, taking into account the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal for a group of MPs. At seven meetings and consultations between individual members of the working group, a working group related to the amendment of the Constitution reached agreement on the establishment of a joint proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in connection with Chapter I of the original basis, Article 7. Armed Forces, Article 9 of European arrest warrant, new Article 27a. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Croatian National Bank, Art. 82nd majority required for the decision on the transition or operation of the Armed Forces across the borders of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 90. The adoption of the State budget, Art. Article 123 relating to the State Judicial Council, 124. State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Council, Art. 125. Decisions on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court and of the Court of Justice 132. Right to local and regional self-government and new Chapter 7a. Art. 141a to 141d EU. At the last meeting of the Parity Working Group held on 15 February 2010, it was concluded that no agreement was reached in respect of the Article. 15. Additional right to vote by national minorities, art. 45. The exercise of the electoral right of Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia, art. 65. Obligation of general education 86 and 141. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia relating to the referendum and proposed to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives of the Group of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the material from the overall debate in the Working Group and the positions of the Working Group. Furthermore, the Committee President informed the Committee members that since the Working Group failed to establish a joint proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, in order to make necessary adjustments to the constitutional, economic and administrative system of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of accession and membership in the EU, proposes the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the section relating to Article. Article 9(2) European arrest warrant, Art. 53. Croatian National Bank, introducing a new article. 53a in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia relating to the State Audit Office, Art. Article 5(2), second subparagraph Paragraphs 3 and 118 of paragraph 1 shall apply. Sources of law, Art. 120 relating to judicial duty, Art. Article 121(3) on judicial immunity, Art. Article 122(2) on the sustainability of judicial duties, Art. As regards the State Judicial Council, Article 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 124. to the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Council, Art. 132. Right to local and regional self-government, art. 141 and 86. The referendum and the introduction of a new Chapter 7a. The European Union, the Republic of Croatia with articles and titles above them: 141a Legal basis of membership and transfer of constitutional powers, 141b Participation in EU institutions, 141c EU law and 141d EU citizens' rights. It is also proposed to add the following national minorities to those national minorities: Bosniaks, Slovenians, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Russians, Bulgarians, Poles, Roma, Romanians, Turks, Vlasi and Albanians. Complementary. 31. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by adding a new Article 4 which prescribes the non-exhaustion of war crimes and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation, as well as the regulation of the obligations and time limits for the adoption of the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the entry into force of the amendments to the Constitution. The proposal for a decision requires the Committee on the Constitution and the political system to submit a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of those amendments and additions and the debates held in the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, most committee members supported the proposal for a Decision on Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, stressing that in the present procedure the principles of democratic procedure have been fully respected and that a high degree of agreement has been reached on the proposed changes. Few members of the board in the debate voiced opposition to the proposed decision, holding that changes to the Republic of Croatia's constitution should also cover the way in which Croatian citizens' right to vote without residence in the Republic of Croatia and the obligation of general education. After the debate, the board proposed by a majority of votes, 7 votes for and 3 votes against, to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for this Decision is as follows: Decision on the accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia – Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia under the Proposal for a Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 142. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia submitted the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 01 October 2009 and, according to the proposal for accession, the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is based on Article. 142. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 16 October 2009. And this is the first, by adding the source bases to those national minorities: Bosniaks, Slovenians, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Russians, Bulgarians, Poles, Roma, Romanians, Turks, Vlasi and Albanians. Second, amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia relating to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the section relating to a) Article 2 of the Constitution relating to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. 9th century 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, European arrest warrant, b) Art. 53. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian National Bank, c) introduction of a new article. 53a to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia State Audit Office, d) Art. Article 5(2), Article 117(3) and 118(1). Republic of Croatia Sources of law, e) Art. 120. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Court office, Art. No. 121.3. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Judicial immunity, Art. C.12.C. 2. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Duration of judicial duty, h) Art. 123. State Judicial Council, Art. 124. State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Council, Art. 132. Right to local and regional self-government, art. 141 and 86 relating to the referendum and the introduction of a new Chapter 7a. EU Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with articles and titles above 141a Legal basis of membership and transfer of constitutional powers, 141b participation in EU institutions, 141c. European Union law and 141d. the right of citizens of the European Union. And by supplementing Article 31 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by adding a new Article 4 which prescribes the non-depreciation of war profits and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation. Regulation of obligations and time-limits for the adoption of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the entry into force of the amendments to the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will, on the basis of the proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia referred to in point 1 of this Decision and the debate held in the Croatian Parliament, submit a proposal to the Croatian Parliament to determine the draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52132	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Minister of Justice esteemed Ivan Šimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52133	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision yesterday that accepts the proposal of the Constitution Committee as its proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The government thus sends a message on the urgency of constitutional changes, but also emphasises that this does not close the door to continuing talks, that the close understanding before the vote of the substantive changes is fully aligned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52134	Thank you. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up first. However, before we go, I would ask all the participants of the debate to stick to the topic because the topic is precisely defined, the amendment and the amendment of the Constitution so that they don't have to do a little bit of that to go back, so please stick to the subject. First is the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities, the esteemed representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is not easy to speak as the first of such sensitive matter as the Constitutional Matter, we will not hide that we did not want to be the first to wait before we know what the party will say, the dominant party in power and the dominant party from the opposition minimum, so that we can deal with these poles that have been the last days, however, everyone seems to be waiting to say what the second and finally it turns out to us from the national minorities that we are talking first. We're not gonna back down and we're gonna say exactly what we're thinking. The National Minorities Club welcomes, firstly, the amendments to the Constitution as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the amendments to the European Arrest Order, the Croatian National Bank, the State Office for Audit, the Judicial Immunity, the sustainability of the judicial duty, the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Council, the right to and the special right to local and regional, or regional self-government. Of course, especially the amendments to the referendum. As regards the amendments to the Club's referendum, members of the National Minorities Club are well known to Eurofills and such changes that give the possibility, which give certain accession to the European Union, have been particularly welcomed. In accordance with Article 31(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with a new sentence that is prescribed, does not obsess over the crimes of war profit and crime from the process of conversion and privatisation, also accepts the Club of National Minorities. So all the changes that have been proposed in the matter of the Constitution are accepted but it is almost larpurartistic to say that we accept changes to the preamble of the Constitution which finally solves one problem that has been dragging away since the mid-1990s, as first of all, the Bosniaks and Slovenians have returned to the preamble of the Constitution and, first of all, to all other national minorities, Roma and all other national minorities that have so far been outside the preamble of the Constitution, have never been, and will now, for the first time, comply with the constitutional law, by copying other words, the Constitutional Law will be listed in the preamble of the Constitution. So we welcome all the changes that are proposed. We are confused by what is not said and not by what is said. First of all, we are puzzled by the controversy that has been taking place in recent months around the vote of Croats outside the country, it confuses us that the proliferation or expansion of polling stations but it confuses us and their reduction, in fact both remind us of something that shouldn't be constitutional matter of electoral engineering, both of them. And that's why we expect the opposition and HDZ to quickly come to a common position because we can't wait long to change the Constitution, and that's why we appeal that a common position is coming quickly because frankly such controversy around the Constitution confuses us and therefore we don't know how to deal with it except to say agree and, apart from saying, don't introduce into the Constitution election engineering. Of course, that's exactly it, with both because it's also the expansion of polling stations and the reduction of polling stations is it. Secondly, enlargement has already been in the last elections, and reduction is predicted. Find a compromise, please, so we can approach the election changes. I will speak words that deserve such controversy. The third thing, we are puzzled by what is not said about one problem regarding constitutional matter. It's not about the Constitution, but as far as we're concerned, it's very much related to our position towards constitutional change. Because the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is also constitutional matter. We're not hiding that all this time and working group that's been working on it, and even outside the working group, we've had conversations about additional voting rights. You know that's about Article 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says that the law can, in addition to general electoral law, provide national minorities with a special right to choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The model was agreed, the model was agreed. What confuses us is that neither the Government has said anything about it, nor has the Proposer, or the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, or Mr Shakespeare in this case said anything about it. In fact, we don't know the position, officially, we just know the unofficial position, but we don't know the official position of the government, nor do we know the official position of the party's dominant party in power. And that is why we must say that we are abstentioned in the definition of constitutional change, because it is crucial for us. Because it's a battle we've been fighting, not five, not ten, not 15, but since 1992, since we've been here in the Parliament. Because we believe that it is a great injustice that a constituent of the national minorities must choose between his civil rights and his ethnic rights. We believe that the Constitution is clear in this regard, because it gives us that possibility, we believe that we have achieved great steps around it, that we have achieved great steps forward. And in the end, it confuses us that no one talks about it, even when it's promised to talk about it from this pay phone. So, we welcome the changes, we expect the agreement between the party in power and the opposition party on the vote of Croats outside the country at the principle level and we expect that the constitutional changes will be introduced in the matter of constitutional change, as of today, changes concerning the Constitutional Law that will need to be voted in parallel with the amendments to the Constitution. I think I've made myself quite clear and we've got it all figured out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52136	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Vice President of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52137	It is certainly a duty to say that what Mr Furio Radin presented as one problem. It's about the next one. The Group of MPs proposed that by amending the Constitution, Article 15 is amended and paragraph 3 is amended in a way that members of national minorities in addition to general voting rights have a special right to choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which is particularly regulated by law. The ruling coalition and representatives of national minorities, we discussed the issue and agreed that national minority voting law should be governed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Election Law accordingly. It shall not, therefore, be affected by the existing constitutional provision referred to in Article 15(3). The Constitution. Since normally the motions for this constitutional change are representative clubs, these three clubs have not withdrawn that part of the Constitution, so that Article 15(3) can be amended, neither the Constitutional Committee nor the other discussions could formalise it. But here is what the Government is now drawing up now a draft draft constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, according to which the draft constitutional law and it will come very quickly into the parliamentary procedure will include the very principles for which members of national minorities have pleaded. According to those models, to satisfy the political interests of national minorities. One of the shortest words is that members of national minorities participating in the total population of Croatia with less than 1.5% have the general electoral right and the additional right to vote, while those who share more than 1.5% have only general voting rights according to one specific model that is in circulation and will be incorporated into the amendment and addition of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. Therefore, the government will, in fact, propose a proposal to amend and supplement the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and a proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law, which technically implements that political agreement that also members of national minorities within this range have in addition to general electoral law and additional voting law. So I believe because this draft is being done, I have one working version of the draft of this in the Government's Legislative Office that the draft will see the light of the day, and that the draft will include representatives from the national minorities, fellow Furin, fellow Pupovac and others with the government's Law Office next week, you will include all the necessary references relating to the additional voting rights of members of national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52138	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52139	Dear colleagues and colleagues, listening to the distinguished representative Furi Radin, who spoke on behalf of the National Minorities Club, part of the ruling coalition and his repeated finding that he is confused now, I understand why he is confused. So obviously there is no basic communication within the ruling coalition. As a member of the ruling coalition on these important issues that we should all discuss should be informed before us, we are still an opposition that also wants to participate in constitutional changes. Now imagine what it's like for us, but we don't feel sad or confused and this isn't even the question of how we feel but where we're standing right now. Let's say the government, obviously the ruling party, obviously not informing the entire ruling coalition has decided that for some reason that may be noble and correct, it may be in the Croatian interest to continue the process that we started two years ago and has informed us about it through the media. The prime minister who made that political decision today was supposed to be here with us not all day, 15 minutes to explain to us the political reasons why a process that was imagined and started in a different way is now going on like this, and we know that formal but for the duration and completion of this process, I won't need to say consensus but almost consensus in this House. So neither is he who speaks for himself bravely, nor is he who keeps speaking for himself fairly, nor is he who keeps saying that he is determined and not afraid. This is the topic we were supposed to discuss today. And I welcome yesterday's statements after a meeting of the government and the prime minister and some other protagonists on the public stage that have brought down tension, or who have done everything in their power to avoid tension. This is a very serious conversation that we have to have here today. So this is not, what came from the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, this is not a European package. This is a European change package of the Constitution plus something extra. It's someone's menu. So, to me, which was made and cooked by someone's taste and taste, by someone's appetites, by someone's desire. That's not the result of consensus and agreement. And we made a deal and talked in good faith months ago and assumed that in that good faith the other side also appeared. When I say the other side, you take it conditionally because there's more sides. So the other side isn't just HDZ. There's a large number of protagonists and interlocutors. There's a public scene. There's also NGOs. There are also legitimate representatives of minorities. There's both the opposition and the SDP. Because listening to the Vice-President of the Parliament talking about changes, the procedure for amending the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is constitutional law. The adoption requires a two-thirds majority. I did not hear him mention that in these talks, the opposition should also be involved not only in the SDP but also in all other interested members of this House. It's a common matter. It's not a question of any back room dealing or deal in the end room. We need to talk about this openly. And now we have received from the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system one proposal, one act that the government has adopted, and we should now adopt constitutional amendments on this basis because of what? Because someone on the outside said that because someone here in Croatia said that, because that's what we agreed. That's not what we agreed! We have not communicated for months, unfortunately, and for months we have communicated to our initiative and then with the will of the ruling party. Therefore, the fundamental message of this today's debate in the Assembly that must have led the ruling political party at least briefly to tell us the political rationality of this decision is back to the table, back to the talks. There's a lot of time. This must be no excuse or ruling party, nor to us, and we offer a conversation and offer compromise solutions. What's the place in the Constitution? Someone says, some topic is too technical for the Constitution, someone says it's not technical. In the Constitution, it is a place of what we, as representatives of citizens, in a conversation with the general public, and we judge each other that the place is in the Constitution. The stops look different. The British Constitution is not written, United Kingdom. The American Constitution is a set of principles. The Italian Constitution of fellow Radin begins if I remember well with the formulation that the Italian Republic is based on the work of la voro. What does that mean? That obviously meant a lot at that point in Italy. It means today. If we started our constitution like that, someone would say the Constitution in such a way should not begin. It is a matter of political moment and political agreement, political factors, public, social factors, what will be in some Constitution, and so on when it comes to the clearly neural point of these talks, one of the most important but important models of voting abroad. That voting model you mentioned could also be the proliferation of polling stations, and then you say you're worried about reducing polling stations. And what we want is for the first time, no proliferation, no reduction, no definition. A definition we haven't had yet, but it's not the only topic. It may be a persuasive topic at the moment, but it's not the only topic. And we see in this menu that a skilled boss may not exactly be from Michelle's restaurant, but here I see the chief's fingers, a part that is necessary for negotiations with the European Union and for the conclusion of certain chapters that are still standing open. A part relating to the general subject, the non-depreciation of, for example, the crimes of war profit and crime from the process of conversion and privatisation. It's a proposal that the SDP has been trying to affirm for several years. He's finally accepted, and it's good to go with that. There's still a whole series of things that someone's been on the board about right now, and before that board in the House, I guess even some political body decided to draw a line. What other topics would that have been? The right to access information as part of constitutional matter. Someone's gonna say it's a banal thing. We'll say it's an important thing, we need to talk about it. Article 45 of the general matter of the exercise of electoral rights and the definition of where it is elected, i.e. where it is voted in Croatia, what Croatia is and what Croatia is beyond Croatian borders. It's an important neural point of our recent history. Making the state budget as most, as usual or qualified by a majority of 77,78 MPs. And it's thrown out. The status of the Attorney General, the way the Constitutional Court judges were elected, all of this got lost somewhere in the translation. All of this has been made by someone, at this point, by a political decision. But we have a serious process ahead of us, and we end up making a two-thirds majority decision. And I repeat, once again, back at the table, go back to the table, we need to keep talking about it. And I'm glad the Prime Minister and HDZ president said yesterday they're not closing the door with other agreements and talks. The issue is more worth the question, and then what is this decision of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure? Because she's acting like something finally. Is it a critical time for Croatian negotiations? He's critical globally because we're behind, but it's weeks and months we still have ahead of us and we can talk about it. The SDP proposal, but also the HNS proposal, the IDS, the Retired Party's representative, will be formulated in the form of amendments to this decision by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and will contain these amendments. So, the proposal to discuss in the process of amending the Constitution and these things that I have now stated, and also about how we vote outside the Republic of Croatia what we believe to be constitutional matter, and we keep it for political reasons. Because for the past 20 years, unfortunately, it's a serious point of reluctance. We started these conversations with HDZ from different positions. Our positions and positions of our close parties, not to be counted by my partner in this matter, the same-minded, was that this right was simply bad and that it was excess. And that should only be voted on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, even in the first proposal to amend the constitution from about half a year ago, which came from the government, from this same kitchen, the first provision stood for the referendum to decide most of the votes cast on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That went away within two days. Probably, I suppose, because the promoter was aware that this compromises the entire electoral model that is in force in Croatia. Because if only most of the votes in the Republic of Croatia are decided in the referendum, and how in other elections, both presidential and parliamentary, the same logic, i.e. against that logic, is decided in a different way. That gave up in a few days. And then we talked, and there were suggestions about voting in a letter. This may work in some countries, but we live in Croatia and live in our political context. Then, after that, it was proposed that certain quotas be agreed. It is information publicly, therefore presented from the presidency of a large Croatian party. And after that, not a word. So we were ready for dialogue, for a deal. Not for a small trade, but for a deal. These are the things that, after the agreements have been made public, would bear the responsibility, political profits, or political damage. The Croatian state is in our court and that is ours, I would say a compromise proposal, and I will not hold the mood of the public, I am very interested in what the wider Croatian public thinks, our kind of reasonable, civilized proposal was to vote where the Croatian state is, and for us, colleagues and colleagues, outside the Republic of Croatia is only where Croatian institutions, Croatian state institutions are. And these are the Croatian embassies and Croatian consulates. We consider this a compromise and reasonable position and something in the interests of both BiH citizens and the Croatian people in BiH. And we think it's right and right. And we think that we finally have to come up with a solution and that we have to, and that we should change that. If HDZ doesn't think that's the way to say it, but we need to talk about it openly, it traumatises the issue. What do I see as a concern for the Croats in BiH? They certainly do not announce that they will be, and these announcements are, I will not accuse anyone of that, but there have been announcements here from tomorrow we will really be treating the residence strictly in Croatia. This brings unrest among Bosnian-Herzegovina Croats. For 15 years in Croatia, there was a model whereby someone could live outside Croatia and have a registered residence in Croatia and exercise all the social rights in Croatia from the Croatian budget. We are not opposed to people exercising some of the rights because as a concern for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia I see primarily financial care. This special concern is always written with a certain number of zeros. The only thing that matters is that you arrange it in a fair, transparent and correct way. That's been gone over the past 20 years. And that's why as disturbing to the Croats in BiH, I see exactly the announcements, and people are afraid of it because they based their existence on it, because someone gave it to them, and now they can't take it overnight. It's a problem for me, and no, it's a bigger problem than where you vote. We are talking about the EU, of course constitutional changes should be adopted in the Croatian Parliament so that some chapters can be closed. It used to be different, now it's like this. We have a few more months to talk. I will read you the document now, I will not say that it is the EU's highest body because the hierarchy of the EU bodies is slightly different than in Croatia, but in any case, it is a very important EU body, and after the latest constitutional, institutional changes in the EU. It is the European Parliament. Some of you were also in the European Parliament when this resolution was adopted, and it was adopted on 10 February 2010 on the Croatian Progress Report in the negotiations on the proposal of the rapporteur, i.e. the rapporteur for Croatia, but after a thorough and very sharp discussion on committees and on the tide. So it's not anyone's private document, it's a document that went through a thorough debate in the European Parliament and voted on and this version got most of it, so most of it is left and liberal and part of the parties. And in paragraphs 36 and 37, the European Parliament, therefore as a collective body, calls on the Croatian government and all Croatian political forces to act constructively and to strengthen Bosnian sovereignty and help the ongoing process of constitutional change. Point 37 calls on the Croatian government to reconcide, so to reconsider, its dual citizenship policy especially towards Croatian citizens who have a permanent residence in BiH. It calls on the Croatian government to find a fair and sustainable solution for these citizens. You can interpret this one way or another, but surely you cannot interpret it, and anyone who has been in the European Parliament cannot interpret it as supporting the continuation of the practice so far. So, neither the proliferation of polling stations, nor their reduction, but their definition. And if that definition were 5, 10 or 15 years ago, things would have been much quieter. What chance do we have now? And don't be blinded by the interests of part of a political party's elite. Because the HDZ, we speak openly, will still have support in BiH for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52140	Bring the end, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52141	Thank you very much, Vice President, I love it when you're so... For the first time we have the opportunity in 20 years of the Croatian state in one, in a series of important issues, but in one particularly sensitive issue, to make a compromise solution that will allow us to compromise for the next 10 years... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, are we on you? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52142	Thank you. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52143	For the next 10 years we've been working on one compromise model as mature people, everything else is violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52144	These are your relationships. It's your relationship, I'm doing my job. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's a few, two corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the honourable representative Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milanovic, allow me to correct your two, three false allegations. It is quite wrong to say that the financial concern is the priority of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside Croatia, it is important but is not a priority. When it comes to Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, political support is primarily the priority. When it comes to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, it is generally a priority to build systems, mutual ties between Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and it is by no means only a priority of finance. The second thing you have said is that it is the interest of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think let me say it for myself, the interest of Croatian citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina is to be equal to all Croatian citizens no matter where they are and there are no other interests. And the third thing and the team I conclude, you say that the vote of Croats outside Croatia must be the Constitution not necessarily, Slovenians put the vote of Slovenians outside Slovenia through the Law on Slovenians outside Slovenia and they regulated it to be done by letter, civilised and that is the only civilized way equal to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52146	Thank you. I'd ask the participants to stick to the debate. We have a second correction to the incorrect quote, the distinguished representative Dragan Vukic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Milanovic cited several incorrect allegations of which I will try to correct only one. Speaking of the interest of the Croatian people and the way of voting in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Milanovic said it was the interest of the people to vote in consulates and embassies. It is simply not true, the people's interest is that they have the right to vote which guarantees the Constitution, and the electoral law regulates the way they vote. Both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and worldwide, and thus between the other 150 countries of the world resolved the vote of their citizens outside the country of origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52148	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Vice President of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52149	I am very grateful to my esteemed colleague, SDP President Zoran Milanovic, for comparing the proposal from the Constitutional Committee to one culinary watch by a skilled chef. The kitchens are in fashion, I consider it a great compliment, because I follow the show on HTV by Mrs. Ana Ugarković and I follow it very well and I see very well that you are a colleague of Milanović. I also do the same as you, just as the Prime Minister stated yesterday, we seek to maintain the policy of open doors, that this is not definitely and concluded, all beyond what is in the Committee's proposal and the Government's proposal, that the other thing is definitely concluded. That is why I stressed if you closely followed that the Committee on the Constitution proposes to the Parliament to draft the Constitution on the basis and on the basis of the proposal of the Constitution Committee, and the Government's proposal, but also on the basis of the debate held in the Croatian Parliament. It is in the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution and I have now made the same statement. You see, it's a questionable situation about whether the opposition is denied, and whether the door is closed, it's not. We had a series of agreements and talks, in front of the entire Croatian public, in order to be able to valorize what is really and where the main dispute and the main dispute took place, it is necessary to present several facts that must be known, which should be aware. And this is a parallel representation of what the Government's proposal is about amending the Constitution with what was the proposal of a group of 52 MPs and representatives from three opposition parties. And now that this comparative display is seen, a proposal to change the Constitution of 52 MPs and MPs, there are only 6 points that are not in the government's proposal or the ruling coalition, only 6 points. And you see what six points are, I'm going to make the public know exactly what the opposition is. It was the introduction into the Constitution of public records, which the ruling coalition accepted to enter into the Constitution. This is a budget for most of all the votes of all MPs, and the ruling coalition has accepted it. And third in the election of Constitutional Judges, the choice of the two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. So these are the three proposals for a change in the constitution that came from the order of the opposition the ruling coalition accepted. There are three other references to Article 15 in which we discussed earlier, which was the proposal for an opposition to amend Article 15(3). The constitution and that the members of all minorities have an additional right to vote in addition to the general right to vote. This is what we consider in the ruling coalition, and we felt, and we had discussions and discussions with representatives of national minorities that this should be resolved not by the Constitution but by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We had further suggestions from the opposition that only the decision to join the Constitution was made by a two-thirds majority and a draft amendment to the Constitution to be made by a two-thirds majority. And finally, as the crown of everything, we had a request to amend Article 45. The constitution under which the opposition insisted on the official proposal that Croatian citizens who do not have residence in Croatia should be given the right to vote outside Croatia. So, you see what the dispute is? The dispute is at one point. How do you get out of this fight? A series of meetings, we held a series of discussions between members of the ruling coalition and members of the opposition. There were different ideas. And what you are telling your colleague Milanovic is exactly what the European Parliament has stated is that, with a special reference to Croatia, the issue of dual citizenship is addressed. But this is a question of reaching the resolution of double citizenship. Secondly, we have tried to agree to vote by the Institute of Postal Voting, to consider ideas and quotas, we have considered the idea that the issue of vote by Croatian citizens who do not have residence in Croatia is resolved by dual citizenship contracts. And we didn't agree on all that. So, crucially, at the end of the day, and the only question is that respected counterpart Milanovic shifts responsibility for non-compliance and does not accept the ruling coalition, and responsibility at the ruling coalition exists in the government and HDZ because, as is apparent from this dissent, from this presentation that the ruling coalition did not accept 100% of the opposition proposals. That we accepted 100% means what's crucial is that amendment to Article 45. The Constitution vote of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia means and place of voting. And when the ruling majority does not accept it, then the SDP complains to the ruling majority and the government that it is responsible for a stalemate in the negotiations and a stalemate in agreement. Or in other words, if we'd accepted everything 100% then it would have been a compromise. It's not a compromise if one side has to accept on the other side all 100% it's not a compromise, it belongs to another category machine that refers to ultimatums, which refers to dictatorships, it falls into something else. The key question is therefore, and I agree that we also find a solution in the course of the debate, to find and to find responsible and conscious politicians to find a solution to this key point of opposition. There is time, there is also through this debate and after this debate, and after the vote and after the debate on the Committee on the Constitution, there is time. I believe that all those responsible for Croatia will find a solution to this point of support.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52150	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52151	My dear colleague, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. First of all, this isn't a compromise. This is a compromise, but the compromise helps the SDP to step down in negotiations from its initial position. HDZ's not moving. Another incorrect allegation concerns the European Parliament resolution and point 37 on dual citizenship outside the Republic of Croatia of Croatian citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a formulation if you'd read it, you'd know very seriously. I do not even fully support it, because I do not want to act on the dictatorship of the European Parliament, but as we agree in Croatia. But read it and you'll see that inside, the whole policy is troubled and questioned. It's about how it's gonna end up being decided by us. And for the end of the day, please don't make us happy with these interventions anymore, that's what the Prime Minister was supposed to do. It's her job to explain the political context of the whole story, as president of the HDZ. You have the right to use this right. Here you can comment every time for half an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52152	Thank you. And the second is the correction of the incorrect quote Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52153	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you said that a compromise would be if one side accepted the other side's demands completely. I've been involved in these conversations, and I think compromise is something else. That it is a compromise when each party deviates from its initial proposals and that is the real compromise. And that's the way we've been in negotiations so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52154	Thank you. Let's move on. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] After the first debate, you'll get your word back. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52155	Read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52156	Please, Madam Vice President, I'll give you my word after the first debate of the club, and I'll give you my word on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52157	I can look for a word always.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52158	After the correction, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52159	After the correction, I'm not looking for an answer to the correction. I always have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure the Proposer look and get the word. I always have the right to seek and get word on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52160	Thanks for your help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52161	I just want to say one thing. .../Speakers speak in the same voice, not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52163	It could have been done in another way. I could've done it from the scene. You actually want me to be on the phone. Thank you very much for that. You've got me all wrong. I didn't, I was ironically saying that it's a compromise if one side accepts and should accept 100% of everything from the other. It's clearly a negation of compromise. The compromise is that everyone gives in to something and finds a common solution. It's a compromise, and it's not a compromise what the SDP suggests when it says it's a compromise when we accept 100% of theirs that it's a compromise. So, that's where we get along.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52164	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52165	I continue to argue that in previous talks both sides have deviated from their initial positions. They were on their way to compromise, and that road had to continue and nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52166	Thank you. And now we're going to continue the club debate. It's time for the esteemed representative Damir Caine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52167	Dear Mr. Vice President, please calm your right hand, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. For a few days now, we have been listening to the constant controversy of who will be responsible if this constitution is not adopted, so said the prime minister will be the opposition. Who's responsible for the economic situation? The opposition. Who's responsible for the shipbuilding? The opposition. I don't know agriculture? The opposition. And the fact that this 20-year-old horse's reigning position was riding for 16 years, so he took it off her and couldn't make it right, which is probably why the opposition is responsible. But what am I saying? Nothing dramatic will happen even though we don't change this constitution. The basis of these amendments clearly concerns this merger, disunity, more specifically the referendum. The constitution stipulates that the merger is conducted by a referendum of most of the votes of the country's total number of voters. True, we are a specific state. We don't even know how many citizens we have, nor do we know how many voters we have. All we know is that we have more voters than the population, which is one phenomenon. In 20 years, we've had 20 different election cycles, and we haven't established that moment yet. Now it's normally proposed to be most of the majority. So, of the 50% plus one 50% that will be for the European Union. However, on the other hand, when Europe is one such priority, when Europe or the European Union is such capital, such gain for Croatia, why today we question reason, intelligence, understanding of Croatian citizens, and we think that Croatian citizens would not be interested in joining the European Union and why we are changing exactly that quota or most of it. I also personally think that we need the European Union. I think we'd get an overhalf majority anyway, regardless of the number of voters. I also don't think that anyone well-intentioned will obstruct Croatia's chance to join the European Union. It will certainly not be the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we will be better here. It will be better clear to them, too, although I would say based on 20 years of practice for them in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be about the same, and we will be worse. So, if the European Union is such a capital, why would someone cut a branch on which we can all sit under quotes. The whole dispute means here, gentlemen, is about where the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will vote. Whether they will be able to vote under every pear, every plum or exclusively at the embassy in Sarajevo, or mendules would say Hrelja or vote at consulates. Here I personally think that they should neither vote nor speak for the Croatian option now in the European Union, nor should they vote for the Croatian President, nor for the Croatian Parliament. And if so, let the vote be organised at the embassy in Sarajevo, or in our consulates. But now who doesn't answer to one such organization? On the other hand, if we were to ask Croatia's citizens in a referendum, if they could vote only in embassies or consulates, or if I could not vote at all, I assure you that 80% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would say that this existing practice was at least harmful. Others will say, I don't know, and some Croatian citizens, for example, can vote in favour of the Italian Parliament. I say it's not right either. Let each one decide where he lives. But what is certainly least right, because of the political interest of the ruling majority for 20 years in Croatia, is one policy of segregation of national minorities, or one open discrimination of those who are in some way, I dare say to the protectors of these national minorities. We are not talking again today about the double right to vote which was apostrophe and representative of the Italian community Mr Furio Radin just before from this pay phone. The vast majority, if such an institute were introduced, would read it as a benefit to the minority at the expense of the majority. But the truth knows very well by proposing this decision that it simply went back to the 1990s or when it was introduced in '95. It seems to me with a conscious goal of discriminating a particular political group. If, for example, Serbs, I don't know, Italians, Albanians, Roma can only vote for their MPs, then punish themselves parties, some parties, and then with minorities, it's usually easy to rip out support, and we mutilate the parties for several tens of thousands of votes that are not usually HDZ voters. Well, you see, gentlemen, that's just the point. It's this segregation policy, it's this discrimination policy. Segregation to minorities, discrimination to parties who sincerely talk about minority problems. The truth is, he did not understand the problem, not that he did not understand but did not want it when he appeared as a proposing before the 3rd January administration to resolve neither Mr Arlovic. What did he do? He increased the number of minority places and indirectly wanted it, he didn't want it, but he cemented, I would say, this existing party in power. On the other hand, we have or in practice entered that with 350 votes de facto someone can enter the Croatian Parliament. The truth is also to point out that the 3rd January administration changed most of the way the Croatian budget was adopted, the fact that this practice was then used by the 3rd January administration is now being used by the team in power. I shouldn't even change that because I'm deeply convinced there's going to be a change of government. So without guaranteeing 100% that this discrimination and segregation will stop, I will certainly not personally support this Constitution. Now that we're talking about who he is, around that consensus or compromise, which is 100% here, which is 90% or 50%. I argue that it may be in that vote for the citizens of BiH, because these are concrete voters, figures, mandates, the majority in Parliament, in fact, contained 99% of the interest of the opposition itself. Secondly, are there certain disputed provisions? I say there is. It's in that part of the Constitution regarding local self-government. Here, if I'm not mistaken, the minister is proposing 4 now of the trade court. I'm asking you not to touch it by numbers, etc. that court in Pazin is in fourth place, far away, regardless of which Istria has only 200 thousand inhabitants, but what simply scares me in some way, under quotes, is simply defining Croatia now in 5 regions. Where the county should be left without self-government. I claim that far slower, worse, more uncertain development Istria would have had to be made up of some, I'll call it, imaginary community municipalities as we had them by the 1990s with some 800 thousand residents than it has today. But if that were the case then those outside that space would suffer even more, first of all, I mean the state budget. I claim that the regions are recognized, that they are not imposed. The figures in this particular case are not important, the will of citizens, history, culture, identity, and not exclusively the will of the team in power which in some ways, I dare say, has led us to ambition. It is enough, on the other hand, to look at the coat of arms, the flag and simply see how Croatia is recognised. What someone now proposes to Croatia in 5 regions is centralisation in centralisation. I am sure that the citizens of Istria will not agree to this, they will not accept it and they will defend their self-government in some way. Now that we are looking at further constitutional changes, we see that EU members will also be able to vote in the Republic of Croatia. citizens from Europe who in some municipality, city, county, I don't know, have a cottage, have an apartment, etc. They'll be able to vote in municipal, urban, I suppose, county elections. And that's absurd, too, in my opinion, but the obligation has been taken over, and what do we do now? But on the other hand, we don't want to strengthen the local self-government of the Constitution. We do not want to decentralisation Croatia, and we will not change Croatia without decentralisation. Powers and money still, which it has every day less and less, remains at the state level, rides up, as I said, a crow, now knows the direction, but I'm afraid that direction is bad for the break-in. Even so, as I said, that crow was devoid of it, and it's on its knees, and we would have told it to the Istrians when we taught him not to eat, and he's not eating, and the question is, what's going to happen tomorrow, even though I'd rather be wrong and everything is going to get better overnight. To go back to that local self-government, too. When was Croatia fastest developed? When she was most decentralised. Since '74. Until the '90s. Everything that has then been achieved since the 1990s is further centralized and clearly privatised. So let's do decentralisation. It is clear that when we talk about these amendments, or the constitutional decision, against the return of Bosniaks and Slovenians to the original foundations, I should ask, again, the 3rd January administration when we changed the Constitution twice why we didn't after '98. Back? It is good to now mention Montenegrins, Macedonians, Roma, Turks, Albanians, Vlasi, etc., no one is against the European arrest warrant, no one is against non-adhesive conversion although it could have been in the decision and perhaps more clearly apostrophe is clear that the same, regardless of those institutions of non-adhesive conversion, I simply do not believe that anything will happen to anyone on this issue. I think it's that anthological parole, almost, of Mr. Royce's "Whom, Jamio." , it will continue to be in force and I think that the higher-a-vis of those spoken sentences might be his place somewhere along with these giants and him because he took the best picture of the situation that prevailed in Croatia in the 1990s. If someone hangs-a-vises those provisions and comes on impact, you know who they're gonna be? It's going to be some failed tycoon, and nothing will happen to the successful, and that's just the point. Which will say that again there is no willingness to revise the transformation, let alone that someone will revise the privatisation of T-HT, Croatian banks etc. We're, I don't know... Or TDR, anyway, as someone here is throwing it now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But to go back to that conversion. While they acquired some possessions, others see that they were killed, but now they have the first, and these others will have a lot of it cut or cut as disabled. With all these measures, we'll take out the poor and the soul, but the tycoon I'm confident won't lose anything, he'll just get more and they might also need to confiscate the property. One word from the revision of conversion and privatisation will be nothing, it's just a delusion, but now the same man is asking himself a question somewhere I read it, whether we're going to revise just the conversion from 91 to 95 or the one after that. And how are we going to do, say, review where strangers went in, etc. Unfortunately, conversion can only be revised by revolution and I guess that won't happen because it might be even worse than what we have. And finally, why change the majority for the implementation of the European referendum, I don't think it's necessary, it will be food, when you throw it away, that someone wants to introduce a new Yugoslavia, as someone has imputed some from Pantovic, although it's funny, Croatia will not because of Vukovar, Serbia because of Kosovo, Bosnia because of Ahmic or Srebrenica, Montenegrins and Macedonians, and it is ideal for Slovenians, and it will end up that way. So once again for the end, it is clear that we are opposed to the possibility of voting under every pear or every plum in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this is not leading to anything as a practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52168	Please stick to the time. I would like to inform you that in accordance with Rule 207(2) of the Rules of Procedure, it is time for the application for a 10-minute hearing, at 10 o'clock and 49 minutes. Now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Brother Caine, what were you doing? So I am correcting an absolutely incorrect quote and I am asking you why you are misinforming the Croatian public and your own citizens. So there is no objection to the vote of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor as you said the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I would be against that kind of vote, too, if that were the case. Therefore, we are talking about the vote of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, those living in Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Australia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that is incorrect. On the other hand, this thing about pears and apples, I can only forgive you or go over it if you are under the influence of pear and apple products, and if you are not then would be or plums, there are good products in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then at least apologize. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52170	Thank you. There is a correction by the distinguished representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Cain, you have the right to think whatever you want, you have the right to speak and speak, but you have no right to insult or disrespect Croatian citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They are, unlike you, legalists and respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Which I strongly recommend to you, and I hope someone from your party will be fenced by this statement of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52172	Thank you. Now it is time to correct the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52173	According to counterpart Cain, if citizens were asked and continued that 80% of them would probably say it would support changes in the existing election models in Croatia. Citizens in constitutional changes can indeed be asked, but only in a referendum not in the polls, and I warmly expect my colleague Cain to join the request to follow Article 86. The Constitution calls a referendum on these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52174	Thank you. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52175	Here, Mr. Cain had a whole series of incorrect allegations, one of them repeatedly repeated, quoting: “A team in power that led the country to ambis, and later spoke to the abyss. ” Someone who advocates the revolution today that he also said, if he does not respect the democratic order of saying that the team in power led to the ampis is completely incorrect. The second allegation is incorrect where it advocates decentralisation, at the same time it speaks of a community of municipalities that would not be effective, while at the same time multiple times in this House you advocate that the former municipalities were exactly the one you seek. In accordance with the interest of the subject, you change your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52176	Thank you. Don't throw it away. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52177	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, counterpart Cain said he remains in force, "Whom he pitted, pitied." I think we live at a time when the Croatian state and the government that runs it showed it and proved that this is not true, and the system shows and I would give a clear message that it was not so and that it would not be so. My colleague Cain, you do not want to introduce a provision on non-deprecated crime which I am very surprised you were once very much in favour, but you missed the opportunity to change the Constitution in 2001 so you did not enter it, now you are opposed but you are sending the people the wrong message.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52178	Thank you. And the final correction of the incorrect quote by the distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues have corrected a number of incorrect allegations already, and I certainly got the one that voted under every plum and pear in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is incorrect. It is voted in election seats according to the electoral law and your debate is in some way all we do and the government is nothing. I'd say your debate is a lot of things, but you've made progress because you've expanded your interest from the woods and the mountains and the horses in some way because the horse is a noble animal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52180	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52181	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It is not an opportunity for a parliamentarians to discuss the Constitution and amendments to the Constitution in their term of office. Many MPs pass more mandates and more mandate cycles without having the opportunity. We representatives of this convocation of the Croatian Assembly have this opportunity and it is for many things unique for us. It is unique because it is related to the process of completing the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, it is unique because in these changes we need to reform the Constitution and strengthen constitutional values in the Republic of Croatia based on what we have seen as necessary and necessary. And according to this, for me as a representative of this House, the dilemma that has recently appeared to Europe or the Constitution is a false dilemma. To me, it's just a question of whether another dilemma of the Constitution or the circus will be created. I'd like to avoid it here. As for my modest opportunities and the club I belong to, and we'd like those opportunities to be strengthened and that doesn't happen. And as things stand, or as things go, we're actually going from that false dilemma to the real dilemma, which is either a fundamental state act or a political circus. Given the circumstances in which we are as a society and given the trust that we should keep with the citizens in order to fulfil what our constitutional task is, we should absolutely avoid the possibility that with our discussions here, either outside the Parliament, we should contribute to the debate on the Constitution starting to turn into a kind of political circus. As far as I am concerned about the debate on the Constitution, as far as I am concerned by the SDS Club as one of the representatives and authorized to bring it here before this Assembly, I see the debate on changes to the Croatian Constitution as a first step as strengthening constitutional values in the Republic of Croatia and strengthening the sense of constitutionality, and thus the sense of legality in the Republic of Croatia. We can pass laws, we can call for reforms, but if by example about such important things with citizens and the public we do not create feelings that our primary goal is to strengthen constitutionality, which is certainly not particularly strong when it comes to the state of consciousness and perception in the Republic of Croatia, then we will not fulfill that task. So I would suggest that we put this dilemma of Europe or the Constitution aside. That's both. We need the Constitution for our sake, and we need the Constitution to be stronger in the process ahead of us, which is to join the European Union in order to be stronger as tomorrow's member of the European Union, not in order to meet some formal requirement because this formal condition is the easiest to meet. A number of issues have been raised during the debate on changes to the Constitution. And as a member of the task force to whom the president of Mr. Shakespeare's group, until the time we were working really well conducted and most of the debates, which I can testify were at the highest level. And in that sense, it is a pity that there was no opportunity to show how much maturity and how much responsibility in these discussions was manifested from different sides. Both representatives of HDZ and SDP and representatives of HSS and HNS and IDS and SDS and others involved. And it's a shame that this debate is interrupted. And I hope so, and it's my club's attitude to help keep this debate going. Not because someone has 100% of what they're asking, and so someone doesn't have what they think is important, but because the debate ends in a way that we all say, yes, this is what we agreed on, this is what we didn't agree on. And we didn't do that. What I would like to say about the constitutional matter itself concerns two aspects. The others listed in the Government's proposal and the others announced by counterpart Milanovic as the content of the party group's amendment, to the most extent or almost 100% I consider acceptable to the SDS club. But there are two places, two constitutional matter, two rise points that are in different ways the subject of political obstacles, almost daily and at the same time the subject of constitutional obstacles, which is the issue of minority voting rights and the issue of diaspora's electoral right. And these are really important questions. And in 2010, we are now in a position to try to change, correct and lead to conditions that may not be ideal for minorities or diaspora, but will be the result of the agreement to fix something and to change something, to compromise. And if you'll allow me, I would say a few words about one and the other based on my humble possibilities of insight into that matter. Motivated by one single thing, which is if we don't quite end the manipulation of minority mandates in the Croatian Parliament and the diaspora representation, then at least reduce it to a possible measure. Because let's not fool ourselves all these years, that was the case. This has been manipulated in different ways either by trying to equate itself, whether by trying to profit politically in this respect because one representation was viewed as left, the other representation was viewed as right and compensated for these or those types of political power. It's not fair to minorities or fair to diaspora. That's not the real point of either. And if you asked each other, they'd say no. This practice needs to be changed. As far as minority representation is concerned, we think that the current situation contains a kind of unconstitutional practice. It is an unconstitutional practice for the general electoral right to be taken away from those who wish to consume special voting law. It's against the Constitution. The fact that the Constitutional Court has not and has not had and has no guts to this day to defend constitutional matter in that matter is in the hands of the Constitutional Court. The fact that we didn't have the guts to give here an authentic interpretation of the Constitution the same interpretation that's up to us, but that's what we have to say. No one can deprive anyone of the general electoral right simply because the currents of our Constitution are guaranteed and especially the right to vote, and anyone can decide whether to use a special electoral right or not, whether or not he needs it. So let those to whom it is concerned and to whom we have given this right. And in that sense, it is necessary to break that practice, that people are about to determine whether or not the general voting rights that are general to all democracy and the activity of a special voting law which is our fluid and parts of other countries will be defined between them because there is no commitment and there can be no commitment from it, except that they will choose themselves as everyone else whether they will use either one, or whether they will use that right in general. The other thing is, it's illegal in a polling post to violate the secrecy of the electoral process, which has been happening all these years. National minorities, colleagues and colleagues come to the polls, wondering whether they want to vote as members of the minority or whether they want to vote as citizens. It's a violation of the secrecy of the electoral procedure. They're not wondering if they're going to vote for Janko or Mark, but they're wondering if they're going to vote for the minority list or if they want to vote for this, and that's already the electoral process, and that's what we have to break up. To the side that makes you feel bad, to the side that it creates a sense of segregation and what it is is a sense of segregation in the polls. And that's why many people stay away and don't want to find themselves in that situation. And it's a lot of people, so to speak, that makes them use either one, or any other right, and that they go to the election at all. A third thing I'd like to say, at least when it comes to the SDSS club, and I believe it is also a good part of national minority representatives. Our goal is also to create an integrated model of democracy, not a co-existence of the political ghetto. And we would like minority mandates not to be a means of reflecting minorities in the political ghetto, but to pave the way for participation and representation that will overcome such a practice that may have been inevitable in the last decade because of conceptual and other reasons. But today is the time to end it. And that's why the models we're proposing are of great importance to us. We also call on representatives of the ruling party with whom we discussed it or the opposition to agree on it. As far as the diaspora is concerned, I don't have much time left, but I'd like to say something briefly, Mr. Vice President. The solution must be such that it contributes to the stability of the neighbouring state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The solutions so far have not contributed to this. This solution we are looking for must be the result of the internal consensus in Croatia, not of overruling one or political option. This is important for Croatia, and it is important for this third one that I say. This solution regardless of what might be fair to find an ideal solution, but we must find a transitional solution in order to help members of not only Croatian citizens, as is said here, but Croatian peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the days ahead when it comes to the internal arrangements of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we must take care of how we treat acquired rights and the model we have so far. And that's why I'm not for anything like that or for any kind of radicalism, but I am for finding a compromise on that. Finally, the SDSS club will support this proposal if a conclusion is reached that talks on these open issues will continue. And that's why we plead that conclusion, because we think that these things are too important, and too important, that we could vote on it here, or that we could participate in or contribute to the revote of this or that position, and that would in the end be the opposite of our deep conviction that I have made here, or at least in a few truths. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52182	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And my apologies to all of you because every once in a while I'm correcting incorrect allegations and I'm going to try to keep myself in the future. However, my colleague Pupovac, who I agree with in a large part of the exposure, has said one thing that is incorrect, but very important. So, he said, so far, the way Croatians vote, i.e. Croatian citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has not contributed to the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd say that's absolutely incorrect. Bosnia and Herzegovina's stability absolutely does not depend on how Croatian citizens will vote in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina depends first and foremost on how the peoples will live in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how Bosnia and Herzegovina will settle as a state and achieve full equality for all, rather than for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be divided in this way as it is and that the Croats in it are indeed completely abolished and I would say marginalised. Therefore, my support for BiH and the invitation for all of you to give real support to BiH, but full equality to all of BiH so that it can be.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52184	Thank you. Let's move on with the club debate, and now it's the honourable Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry. Here, here we have before us a proposal for a Decision on Accession and Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and in this material itself, all the articles and substances to which the changes will be concerned, so what will be covered by the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so that, as it says here, they will finally be as close as possible to the accession of the EU. There were various menus, signatures, etc., but also what was offered, so in the last list, the last list of this material, but also what was left, I would say as a dessert, as Croatia says dessert, and that is what we need to talk about, as my previous Mr. Pupovac said, and what further talks should be continued. And that's the voting right of minorities and diaspora. What the HDSSB is in the talks, so the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, which sent delegations to discuss with the chairman of the committee, we also spoke with representatives of other parties in connection with constitutional changes, which was insisted by the HDSSB on regional, constitutional, therefore the legislation of the regional division of the Republic of Croatia, the region, and the reduction of the number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, a two-dom parliament that would guarantee the smooth development of all regions and the ends of the Republic. At the sittings, we did not find any comment on our proposals, as is known, here are colleagues to the chairman of the Constitution Committee. But right here, we see in the material that's supposed to be in art. 132. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Right to Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. I don't know, and until the proposals are done, what does that mean, and in what form, the degree of administrative and administrative part, and in accordance with the changes and administrative and administrative structure of the Republic of Croatia, so what is being said about the possible abolition of some municipalities, etc., what is that really going to mean? I heard here today from Cain that it's some five regions, etc., but I'm actually very clear that I'm not familiar with it because it hasn't even come out yet. It is also true that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Croatian Parliament. 86. The Constitution has the right to call a referendum on proposals for constitutional changes of the Republic of Croatia. So that they do not decide 153 MPs of this Parliament, but that the citizens of the Republic decide in the referendum as planned. It is controversial for the HDSSB, so the change of art is controversial. 141. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because as someone has already said here for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so it is a referendum for the entry or accession of the EU, for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do we doubt, do we have the right to doubt that they do not want to join the EU, so we are reducing the quota or reducing the censorship in the referendum from the voter's release to those who vote clearly or against? So here we have also proposed that there be a compromise between this proposal, which proposes to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In 141, which is now said to the Republic of Croatia, therefore the decision on the association of the Republic of Croatia is taken in a referendum by a majority vote of the total number of voters in the country. This is the current article. The 141st that is scheduled for change, so a half-way out to the polls is required, not a half-vote in favour. If we know that in the last elections here for the President of the Republic was anywhere near 4 million and 900 thousand voters, if we know that, according to the last 2001 census, the Republic has 4 million and 365 thousand citizens, then it is clear that the voter list is not arranged. Clearly, the difference between about 600 and nearly thousands of votes is one strange thing. And even when we take the diaspora votes, then it's also that number again, I would say, that number of 4 million and almost 900 thousand voters is impossible to reach. The one from the beginning that is not currently in play with these proposals, which I have called sweets or dessert, is interesting enough that in this debate with my predecessors is constantly talking about the votes of Croats or citizens with dual citizenship in BiH. How come no one mentions other countries with which there is a Double Citizenship Treaty? What about the votes of Croatian and Serbian citizens? Nobody mentions it here. Why doesn't anyone mention it? So we also have a dual citizenship for which people, therefore, are citizens of both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. How is it not interesting for anyone in the debate but we are constantly, let me say, on the wallpaper are citizens of BiH and Croatia? It is clear that there are manipulations in the electoral process, it is clear to all, there are manipulations of the dead, from double voting in the Republic of Croatia and in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so when I talk about Serbia and Serbia, it must be arranged and one other legal solution can be arranged, as my colleague Bagaric said in one correction of the incorrect quote. So, according to his policy of decentralisation and regionalisation, the HDSSB proposed that at the meetings of this Group for the Amendment of the Constitution what actually kept Slavonia quiet and why Slavonia was really visible in terms of economic, cultural, sports in every way compared to the rest of the Republic of Croatia and became the poorest region with the worst fiscal capacity of our counties, let's subtract this Osijek-Baranja but these other 4 are indeed a disaster. These are arguments that are seen from the data from the State Statistics Institute, State Audit, etc., and therefore the HDSSB stopped when it is already seen that in this country everyone pulls for their own, clearly that the HDSSB where it lives, there and drags, it is clear to Slavonia and Baranja, not only in terms of economic financial and other matters but also political. Someone here is talking about the success of decentralisation from the days of the SFRJ Constitution from 74 to 90 and that at the time there was significant economic growth precisely for the reasons of decentralisation. Then in Slavonia there was a community of municipalities that were then in Slavonia, as a municipality of Slavonski Brod, Našice, Gradiška, Osijek, Virovitica, Slatina, etc., Vinkovci, Vukovar, Županja, Ilock. Without any illusions in terms of the past, so that someone would not misread, since there is a chapter on regional strategy, regional structure, the Republic of Croatia by joining the European Union finally gets one just, to do something in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in connection with our proposals regarding the equality of development, equality in voting, in these changes we sought a two-dominated parliament of the Republic of Croatia and the House of the Regions, with a total reduction in the number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And by 20% compared to today's number of 153 so that would be about 126 MPs in two homes that would guarantee the equality and equality of the development of all regions. I'm saying I didn't get an answer then in those conversations, but here in this material, in the decision to join a change of constitution I find here Article 132. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, right to local and regional self-government. If this remains in today's structure, then the counties that are considered regions are sad. The region in Europe is something quite different from what regional district self-government, the area of the county is talking about today. In all possible elements that characterize a particular region that is today called the County of our country. Therefore, if we are also Europeans or Eurofills, or Eurorealists, then let us see ourselves in this segment of decentralisation and regionalisation of a country of polite Europe. Furthermore, I believe that by joining the Croatian European Union, it is changing and reducing very likely, it reduces the role of the Croatian Parliament in the decision-making process. Part of the legislative activity of the Croatian Parliament is being transferred to the government. The government of the EU's legislative proposals should be submitted to the Parliament within a certain time limit, and on these laws, the government has its opinion. In fact, the Croatian Parliament must also define its place and position as a legislative and representative body in importance in the Republic of Croatia. So I only mention that the legal basis of the government's labour surveillance system and the President of the Republic is regulated in the French Parliament in an article of their Constitution 88 which says that the Government in the National Assembly and the Senate will submit drafts of European legislative acts as well as other drafts and proposals of these acts of the European Union as soon as they are forwarded to the Council of the European Union. Therefore, we must think about the future role of the Croatian Parliament. And there was something else I wanted to say whether it was a technical failure or not, that the government took over as the introduction said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system as its proposal on the accession of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The date is April 27th and the material says that the session was held on April 28th. This item was written on April 27th, the government held a session on April 28th today is April 28th, I don't know if the Government is currently holding a session, but it's interesting whether I don't know this speed or the ease of writing these materials, I don't know. Is it a mistake? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52186	Thank you very much. In the name of the HDZ Club, the Honorable representative Ana Lovrin will first speak, and then the distinguished representative, Andrija Hebrang, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52187	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal for a decision on the accession of amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to the proposal submitted by the Government and the proposal with the draft amendments submitted by the group of MPs and in the section in which these proposals have been agreed. So, as we see most of the proposed amendments, the need for constitutional-legal adaptation to join the European Union is either as the removal of constitutional obstacles, or as the opening of constitutional opportunities for direct harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union. But it should not be understood in a way as if some imaginary European force had ordered us to amend the Constitution, but rather in terms of completing the negotiations and political consensus of entering the European Union, all political factors in this country, and for the sake of improving Croatian citizens and entering a regulated legal democratic and economic improvement space. Beyond the possibility of changes to the accession of the European Union, these amendments include some changes resulting from other initiatives, but I would say they also contribute to the credibility of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. provide additional constitutional guarantees to respect the rights of national minorities, and to combat all forms of crime and corruption. So, in terms of this second group of additions, it is certainly a complement to the original basis by including all national minorities who choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament in such a way that constitutional equality is fully guaranteed to members of all national minorities with all rights of the citizens of Croatian nationality. The second amendment in this regard is the introduction of a ground for prosecution and not an obsolescence of war crimes and crimes committed in the process of conversion and privatisation, thus eliminating injustice and in fact solving the failure of the system against the inability of persecution for this as it would be considered serious offences that would become obsolete under the current provisions. And something else that may not be noticeable at first sight, which is raising to the constitutional level the provision of compulsory confiscation of property acquired by such criminal acts as we have today guaranteed by law for other crimes. And for these crimes, it especially rises to the constitutional level. And, of course, after this opening of the constitutional possibility, further legislative developments are necessary in this regard. Compared to the first part of the constitutional changes mentioned, they relate above all to those changes that allow the completion of the negotiation processes in certain negotiating chapters, which is primarily the chapter of the Monetary Policy, and economic and monetary policy, hence the independence of the Croatian National Bank and the release of the provision that it is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Chapter of Financial Supervision and the specific independent position of the State Audit Office as the most audit institution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – Justice, freedom, security European arrest warrant as one of the important tools and instruments for mutual legal assistance and effective fight against organised crime, which will allow Croatia to enter a single legal space with other European Union countries and that will respect each other's extradition either for the purpose of criminal prosecution or for the execution of criminal sanctions. I must say that this provision does not open the possibility of altering therefore only the possibility of a European arrest warrant, but opens up the possibility of making mutual international contracts for the extradition of states, when the state estimates that they have mutual trust in legal systems. In Chapter 23. – Fundamental rights, it is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to provide active voting rights, active and passive voting law to European Union citizens for elections for the European Parliament and local elections as well as for citizens of their own country. Furthermore, in Chapter 23, strengthening the independence, impartiality, professionality of the judicial authority and the judiciary as a whole, as regards a set of proposed amendments relating to the composition of the State Judicial Council, and in this respect, the provisions on the selection of members of these councils by the Croatian Parliament are deleted in order to avoid any politicisation in the election of judicial officials. Then provisions on judicial duty, provisions on the immunity of judges where the sentence is brought into line with the new Criminal Procedure Act. And finally permanent appointments of judges to permanent duty. So no more so-called. the trial deadline for judges, also in terms of the independence of the judge and independence of the further choice. And just a few words about the institutions that are not present in this change, which are much mentioned in the debates, and this is about the diaspora vote, as if it were the most important issue, the issue of europeanisation. And I'd just say that we're going to enter Europe and that no one's asking us if the diaspora is going to vote. And according to data from the 27 countries of the European Union in 19 countries, the right to vote is given to citizens of the state who do not have residence in the country. So, if there was an abuse, they should not be dealt with by a constitutional and legal institute but by law. But it seems that it's not about abuse, it's about someone wanting to take away their right to vote. And what does the public think about that? The public said twice in the elections because she chose a party that had the right to vote diaspora in her programme. So, in the end, we heard from MP Milanovic that he read some, that a European body tells Croatia to review the double, European Parliament, well, to review the question of dual citizenship for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many European Union countries also have double citizenship. And why is it that nobody has ever, and we have heard only that it was mentioned once, has not mentioned the abuse of other double citizenships primarily surrounding countries, Serbia, which also because of the non-delivery today... a large number of convicted and suspected persons for the most serious crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52188	The Honorable representative of the second part of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52189	Thank you very much. As colleague Lovrin has provided a professional framework for the reasons of our acceptance of these amendments. I'll round it up with a few more political data. The adoption of the Constitution is a historical fact, a historical document and a historical event in each Parliament, so it will be this time. And this time this session will be quoted whether we were able to decide our own fate, whether we had placed particular interests ahead of the state's interest. And so far, in the amendments to the law, we've known how to put our party interests in place. This time it will not be possible because no consensus, consensus has been found, and that is why we propose to accept these amendments because it is the interest of the citizens of this country and it is the most important and important interest of the citizens of this country at this time. We could also go with our party interests and pack them into the European Union with the changes that are necessary. However, we would not want to do so because this time we would call on all those who can stop themselves from packing party interests in the general interest, and that is the change in the sense of entering the European Union. On page 15 of the previous constitution in 2005, then Vice-President of the Parliament Mr. Mato Arlovic writes. "The amendments to the constitution were necessary because they fulfilled the promise to voters, so these changes spoke about the constitution as one of the indicators of respect for the election body's will because of the parliamentary majority that promised them the ruling coalition. This time, as a parliamentary majority, we would give up such a right, so we would not, for example, ask for the return of the name of the Croatian State Parliament and package it as a condition for entering Europe to vote on a new constitution, amending the Constitution. We wouldn't have packed even a change of statehood day with an explanation that June 25th hadn't come to life because that's not the day when the state was created. That day, we made decisions that we had made in three months. We would not package any party interest but recommend that we not be politicians this time, but that we be statesmen. Anyone who raises hands for these changes will say that for the European Union, for the better, that for the environment of parliamentary democracy, the rule of law, that for the market that will make life for our citizens better. What we decide at this session will also quote our descendants and tell them if we have the strength to remove one obstacle on our way to Europe or if we have added another obstacle ourselves. And remember how much effort we've put into removing, solving a number of difficult obstacles. Remember The Hague, remember the extradition of Croatian generals to The Hague tribunal, remember ZERP, remember the difficult decision on arbitration, the agreement with neighbouring friendly Slovenia. Now are we going to add one more barrier ourselves or are we going to say no, we are mature to say this time to the European Union. It depends only on us, depending on this assembly's assembly, and that's why this session will be quoted in the future. I think that at this point, we should accept these changes and because countries in the environment are looking at us. If Croatia has matured to overcome party interests and to look at the good of its country, it is also mature to see the good of the region waiting for us to solve this problem. But we will also show future friends in the European Union that we are mature to make decisions about our destiny. And that is why I propose that we accept these changes, not put another artillery log on our way to the European Union. I propose that the adoption of these amendments be the last page in the artillery logs, and this acceptance to be the first page in the new journal on which the gold letters will be written on the cover by the European Croatia. Because we lived for Europe, we fought for it, we died for it, and we dreamed of it. Whether it will remain an unfathomable dream depends on raising hands at the end of this session of Parliament. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community and our club, we thank in advance all those who will raise their hands for European Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52190	Thank you. We're going back to work. HNS club, distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52191	Mr. Vice President and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So this is about changing the Constitution which, of course, needs to be changed a little bit and rarely. We have not held on to that so far, and I hope that from now on we will stick to it because the Constitution is one serious document, it is no pathetic, it is no calling for a change in its political profile. The Constitution is a document that we say who we are, which makes one political nation the Constitution express its understanding of who it is. And it is obvious that at this point we are directly encouraged to make constitutional changes to the existing, at least by a declaration of consensus on Croatia's membership in the European Union. It's a direct occasion. But of course it's not something we've learned now. Our fundamental decision to go to the European Union and start the whole process contained this decision. So it also contained a decision to change the Croatian Constitution at least in those parts that enable Croatian membership, the first achievement of member status, and then, of course, the functioning in the European Union, within the European Union. The procedure was initiated through two initiatives or two. One was the government's proposal and the other was the proposal of opposition deputies. After an unusual and strange procedure where the initiative went through the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system, through the working group, so the parties in the Croatian Parliament agreed on fundamental positions, so everything returned or was taken over by the Committee on the Constitution. The chairman of the Committee on the Constitution of fellow Shex, without consensus, pushed most of the votes forward with this proposal before us today. So, to be absolutely clear, this proposal that lies before us today is not the result of consensus, although we are all aware of the fact that the Constitution can only be changed by consensus, at least by the agreement of the two largest parties in Parliament, one of which is the power and the other opposition. The menu or choice that we have in front of us under the heading "Decision on Access to the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia" is a combination of different things. So this menu also includes what is directly related to the negotiations and the achievement of Croatia's membership in the EU. And what is indirectly, so indirectly related to Croatia's EU membership. Such as a referendum that has nothing to do with any provisions on chapters or anything but simply one assessment in which the referendum could or could not succeed. It also includes what is necessary for the future functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, but includes, of course, what is not at all related to the EU in terms of the criteria for future functioning or achieving membership even indirectly as is the case with the referendum. So, to be perfectly clear, this proposal here could be called some kind of "Sex menu." So, the choices from what different promoters and initiators have proposed, something government, something HDZ, something opposition, something NGOs, something different factors in the whole process or beyond in the Croatian society, from which fellow Shakespeare made this spy map. So this proposal, which is ahead of us, selecting some things and including them in this proposal and rejecting some things and not including them in this proposal. What is good and positive and I think one element of the consensus is that it is obvious that both the Government and the Government and the opposition understand that it is obvious that something needs to be changed and europeanised in the Constitution beyond what is necessary for the EU. I think that's what some colleagues and colleagues who used to say before me emphasized, let's say when the names of all national minorities are introduced into the source base or preamble, or when it comes to the non-depreciation of the crimes of war profit and crime from the process of conversion and privatisation. Therefore, it is obvious that all actors in this process have recognised the need to europeanise the institutions and procedures defined by the Constitution and beyond what is necessary for Croatia's EU membership. We agree at the HNS Club that this is the case and we think it is one element of consensus because it is obvious that the purpose of the entire European process in Croatia is to Europeanise the functioning of the Croatian state, to raise to a civilized level the functioning of our institutions even when necessary in many European countries institutions operate below that level. It is in our interest to bring our country to the level where it becomes useful and functions positively for its citizens. This is the point of the whole European project. EU membership is only a consequence, it is only a result of the fact that we have taken systematiced experience from other countries of Europe and applied it to our country to speed up and facilitate the rise of the standards of functioning of our own country. That's the point. And in the amendments to the Constitution, then it is obviously smart, recommended, necessary, and part of our obligations to the people who chose us in Parliament. Because Parliament is the place where the Constitution is adopted, the Constitutional Assemblys are the places in which the Constitution is adopted, so Parliament is elected among other things. So it is an obligation to raise these standards and use European criteria or preconditions only as a minimum for us. That's not enough for us, that's what our minimum is. We have to and we can, I hope, go beyond that in perspective. The motion for this decision in front of us doesn't explain in any way why this choice? Why do these things not related to EU membership come in? Why do these elements that are not related to the functioning within the EU, and why not others, come in? There is clearly no agreement in this and there is a difference between the HDZ and the opposition. There are no arguments as to why these extra-European changes to the Constitution, and not some others. Our differences may be that they stem from the fact that we have a different view, simply a different view, of what it means to civilize the state. The foundation of the civilised arrangement of the state in the opinion of us at the HNS Club is the unequivocal legitimacy of the institutions. It is important to know who votes and on what basis the institutions of the state have legitimacy. The moment you don't know who's voting, when you're told in a written report that you have between 400 thousand and 900 thousand people on the voters list who don't know if they exist, it's not a civilised state order. This seriously calls into question the legitimacy of the institutions of the state. The third element is that two-thirds is necessary for the adoption of the Constitution. Therefore, any coercion to any political blackmail or to any kind of pressure or without arguments tries to force the constitution to be brought without two-thirds, or that someone would now be afraid that something would label him is out of the question. And I don't think it's a good idea to go that way. This is a serious task for serious people and to compete that they or these larger Europeans are bigger than others, it would be funny if it weren't for sad people because this project is a very serious project and as anywhere else among all our parties there are people who understand this project better and who understand it more. But we should all understand that I try to compete and pressure any side that because they're going to be scared that they're going to be shown as non-European, accept something that is not Croatian, which does not protect the interests of people in this country, at the expense of some potential profit in the elections, however not. It's not a smart way to be in a situation where you need 2/3, because it doesn't work and it won't work. The Constitution won't be able to change by force. As for deadlines, deadlines for ending our negotiations, if we are to be honest, assuming that it will go best, the deadline is the first session in September of this year, so that we do not vote against each other, this is the final deadline, provided that we end negotiations this year, which I believe is our national interest, not to end the negotiations, but to achieve a minimum Europeanisation of our own country. The difference between the Government and HDZ proposal and the addition to this proposal or the extension of the proposal, which they propose and with which the amendment will go together to the clubs of HNS, SDP and IDS-A and the representative of the Croatian party of pensioners Mr Hrelj, extends the amendments to the Constitution to another 8 articles, thus extending the amendments to the Constitution to the article that regulates the exercise of voting rights, because we consider this not one of the points, but a key point in defining the legitimacy of institutions selected in Croatia and the future roles of Croatia in the region and stabilising the region. As this will change is not the subject of today's debate, the subject of today's debate is just what articles will change, and how they will change we will talk about when the time comes. But for example, Article 7 which has been forgotten here, and without a change in Article 7, we cannot function within NATO just to remind the european feathers in the Croatian Parliament, so without a change in Article 7, we cannot function within NATO, so we must change Article 7. It is also necessary to amend the Constitution to define the right to access information, the state budget on which the government is dependent should be brought to a semi-half of all as the government is elected, because when the budget, the government, as well, falls, it is obvious that the budget should be adopted on the same principle as the government is chosen, but this is one point on which both the government and the opposition and even... agree. But she didn't get into this proposal. And finally selecting constitutional judges with a few more points. So the whole point is to agree today not necessarily content and not even how to change which articles, but to identify the articles that we need to change and our debate later will be about how but, of course, that menu must include what is the subject of seeking everyone who is necessary to change the Constitution because, of course, it cannot succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52192	Thank you. I haven't heard exactly what you said, but I'm letting you speak longer and don't react that way because as you said, this is a serious home, and it's a serious document that we're working on, and there's no one in it to exclude you in any way. Let's move on now with the corrections, there is one correction incorrect quote, first of all, and that is the distinguished representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of the respected representative Pusic, who said in her speech that it was political forging, political blackmailing and rushing constitutional changes. I would remind you, Mrs Pusic, that in 2001, when you were making constitutional changes, it was a month from the start of the procedure to the vote of constitutional change. We are here from 2009 to 6 months from the first proposal to start constitutional changes, from the first draft, to the second draft, to the two debates in the Croatian Parliament, to the establishment of a working group that had 7 meetings, to the wider discussions at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb and Rijeka, to the participation of experts, to our joint meeting with various associations,... several dozens of times over this constitutional change, I would say that HDZ has key responsibility for the national interests of the Croatian people, which is that in 2010 we end negotiations for our country's accession to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52194	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Vice President of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52195	Thank you very much. In the introduction of the mission to observe the presidential elections, the European Security and Co-operation Organisation as well as the State Election Commission assessed the results of the elections both in parliamentary 2007 and in the presidential elections this year, it assessed that both the parliamentary and presidential elections were conducted in accordance with the principles and other international standards for democratic elections of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation were fair and were correct and in line with the highest democratic standards of the democratic procedure. A colleague, Vesna Pusic, pleads first in her play, and questions the possibility and necessity of constitutional changes from the point of view of europeanisation of institutions and procedures for the purpose of functioning of the Croatian state. So, counterpart Pusic, on behalf of his party, puts the focus on those constitutional changes that are necessary and necessary in order to europeanise the functioning of Croatian state institutions. And then he asks another question, on what criteria and on what basis, why was this particular choice taken in the proposal of the Constitution Committee and in the proposal adopted by the Government as its proposal to change the Constitution? Or in other words, counterpart Pusic says it's my menu, that I'm the one who chose that menu that will be the constitutional changes, that I'm the space map or that menu that I wrote and offered the guests on the menu to choose these meals or not to choose them, or to try them or not to taste them. That's not gonna be quite the way it is. The first procedure for amending the Constitution is very strictly regulated. You colleagues, Pusic, have stated that a little unusual procedure has been applied in this case in the case of this amendment to the Constitution. In a stable way, yes, but not against constitutional provisions not against them. The procedure is set out in Articles 142 to 145. The Constitution. Amendments to the Constitution can be submitted by one-fifth of the representatives, the President of the Republic and the Government. The government also submitted a proposal for a change to the constitution, one-fifth of the MPs submitted more than one-fifth. And those proposals have entered the parliamentary procedure. After a political agreement discussed the proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution with a draft amendment to the Constitution, presented by the government, by the ruling coalition and the ruling coalition and the opposition agreed and agreed to stop and not vote on the proposal to approach the amendment proposed by the Government to stop and wait for the announced amendment to the Constitution proposed by a group of MPs from the three opposition parties. We were already then to stick blindly, strictly to the Constitution at that session in October after the motion was discussed to approach the amendment of the Constitution by the Government to vote, to approach that amendment of the Constitution. We're not already doing this to achieve space and open up the possibility of a vote, to have another proposal waiting. The second proposal came, we unanimously supported the second proposal on the committee, unlike the government's proposal, which was not unanimously supported by the committee. And after the debate that was held in the Croatian Parliament, we again agreed with the political consensus that we would come up with a joint proposal to set up a parity working group. There were five MPs from the ruling coalition, five MPs from the opposition coalition. And that's where we tried to find each other. We were already at the time to say that we held firm, blindly, that we adhered to constitutional provisions and procedures for amending the Constitution, we should simply vote on which proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution to be put into follow-up procedure. We could therefore, with most votes and then make a decision to stop at that stage an opposition proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution. We didn't do it. And now we're getting complaints that it was an unusual procedure. The procedure was not against the Constitution, it was in the spirit of the Constitution, it was in the spirit of constitutional provisions governing the procedure. And we tried to reach the limits of our consensus. Ms. Vesna Pusic rightly says this proposal is not the result of consensus. It's not. Because the consensus couldn't be achieved. It could not be achieved, although the ruling coalition in all possible ways presented all possible different proposals for full consent. Consensus has not actually been reached on just one single question. We did not formalise the agreement we reached on not changing Article 15(3). The constitution, therefore, means that the way to vote is for members of national minorities to have an additional right to vote besides the general one. We left this for the Constitutional Law on National Minorities and the Election Law. The only thing we didn't agree on was this one thing. We have already reached agreement on the referendum with this referendum being resolved, but we did not formalise it, to resolve precisely on this trail as proposed here in constitutional changes. And we've given quite an explanation for all of this, as you say, that it wasn't explained why this particular choice was made. Both in the proposal to amend the Constitution and at a meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, at a number of meetings, at a number of 7, 8 working group meetings, it is very much to give the explained reasons why it is precisely this choice. This choice is because we have reached full consensus with him, and not this choice does not include what we have not reached full consensus except a few exceptions where we have reached consensus but are not included in this committee proposal. They are not included because we have decided to go with the amendments to the Constitution only in the original foundations, the addition of the original foundations, the European Union and the non-depreciation of these crimes. And that's why we've given very much reason and reason why this particular choice. And this isn't a choice with me on Vladimir Shakespeare's map. This is a choice from the parliamentary majority of the ruling coalition and government. So, he also agrees with my personal choice. It's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52196	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52197	So, colleagues Pusic, we have provided an explanation and discussions on all the questions, and answers all the questions, and I agree with continuing the debate and on these other parts that you have proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52198	Thank you very much. We also have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52199	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I don't want to waste this time counting on me, but I apologize if you understood anything rudely when I thanked you. I really saw that you gave me a little longer than when it was blinking, and that's why I thanked you. And as for this, since fellow Shakespeare has most of his incorrect allegations, then later he himself has corrected himself. First he said it wasn't exactly what I said it was an unusual procedure, but then he said it was actually an unusual procedure. Of course it was an unusual procedure, because we were discussing two motions to change the Constitution and we didn't vote once. So he stayed floating in the Parliament. That, if it's not an unusual procedure, then I don't know what it is. But in the end, you made up your own mind, and you agreed with me that it was a bit unusual after all. Secondly, the agreement has not been reached on one question you say, and then here you do not specify the articles for the change of the Constitution but for the things that have been reached. consent. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end!]] Therefore, the first question is crucial, and the second on many of the issues that we have initiated to be subject to change is also agreed and no explanation has been given why it is not included in the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52200	Thank you very much. And this overrun, we'll send the bill, not the other one. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HSLS club SDA, Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. The club of the representatives of HSLS and the SDA of Croatia respects the fact that preparations for membership in the European Union implies a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in order to provide appropriate constitutional and legal bases for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and for the effective functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the same Union. In fact, we will regulate constitutional and legal adaptations that will take into account the new political and legal environment in which the Republic of Croatia is located before and after the accession of the European Union. It should certainly be said that the necessity of constitutional changes is suggested by both the European Union during the accession negotiations process in a number of negotiating chapters. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed such situations and obligations on 1 October 2009 and 52 representatives of the Croatian Parliament on 15 October 2009. At the beginning of constitutional changes, and I would like to say this, the satisfaction of the Croatian public, including the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, which is a great coincidence in the amendments to the Constitution. The debate also found that there were differences in access to individual amendments to the Constitution. That is why the parity working group at 7 meetings in each other's consultations, agreements and talks reached agreement on the next amendments to the Constitution. I particularly welcome this on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and Party of Democratic Action of Croatia. So it is particularly important for this club that the following national minorities are added along with those national minorities: Bosniaks, Slovenians, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Russians, Bulgarians, Poles, Roma, Romanians, Turks, Vlasi and Albanians. The agreement was reached in Article 7 relating to Armed Forces, Article 9 of the European Arrest Warrant, new Article 27a. public records, Article 31, does not obsolescence of war crimes and crimes arising from the process of conversion and privatisation, Article 53. The Croatian National Bank, Article 82, requires a majority to decide on the crossing or operation of the Armed Forces across the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Article 90 of the adoption of the State budget, 123. State Judicial Council, 124. Article 125 of the decision on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court, Article 132 of the right to local and regional (regional) self-government and the new Chapter VIIa. concerning the European Union. Therefore, in these areas a consensus has been reached on the numbered thematic units. In the decision to join the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which is the subject of this parliamentary debate, the subject of the examination is also the whole of the Constitution relating to judicial duty, judicial immunity, the sustainability of judicial duty, the State Audit Office and the referendum. Questions on which no agreement or consensus has been reached until the end are issues relating to Article 15 of the Supplemental right of the vote of national minorities. Article 45 of the exercise of the electoral right of Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia, compulsory general education and certain considerations relating to the referendum on Articles 86 and 141. The HSLS and SDA club of Croatia believes constitutional changes are the creation of frameworks that will live for several years, and therefore it is necessary to compromise parliamentary parties for the benefit of citizens. Therefore, the debate should be conducted both in the Parliament and in the public, in a calm atmosphere. This will show that Croatia's entry into the European Union is the priority interest of all parties and that we can reach an agreement there. In particular, two facts need to be pointed out, and in the end today's debate has shown that only one is controversial. The first remaining unresolved, and what is extremely important in unresolved issues, is the additional right to vote for members of national minorities, but this can be settled by amending the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and electoral legislation, according to the assessment of the Club of National Minorities. Therefore, there remains an unresolved main opposition to the vote of citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia, it is the unanimity and possibly the biggest problem in approaching positions. Here too, dear colleagues and colleagues, we must be realistic and we must respect certain facts. I would like to remind you that according to research by one agency in February 2010, I am not talking about personal views, I am not talking about the positions of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, I am talking about a survey of the agency from February 2010 where 50% of Croatian citizens took a stand to abolish the right to vote in the diaspora in general. Another 30% believes that the electoral, namely voting rights should be significantly reduced to Croats living outside Croatia. So 80% of Croatian citizens want a certain change in the current diaspora voting model. He wants a certain change. I also believe that on this issue which remains the main issue of talks, mutual respect, mutual tolerance and mutual agreement, I therefore believe that it is also possible to reach a compromise in the interest of Croatia, in the interest of Croatia, in the interest of all Croatian citizens who vote on the day of elections in other countries of the world. With this I will conclude, the club HSLS and the SDA of Croatia supports the Decision on the Accession of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the desire to set out more uniformly a proposal for the establishment of a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52202	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52203	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Constitution is the highest legal act, the foundation and framework of the legal system and also the most significant political document of the state. The Constitution prescribes the basic principles of the structure and the functioning of the political system and, they say, it needs to be changed a little or a little bit. On the other hand, the decision on EU membership is one of the most important decisions of one European country which has a number of changes for the result, and therefore it is necessary to recognise this change that will affect the functioning of the country itself and its citizens in its highest legal act. After becoming a member of each country at constitutional and legal level, a set of requirements stemming from the integration process should be resolved. Thus, many countries that entered membership during the last 2 waves changed their constitution to adapt to the new reality. All other countries, except Cyprus, which had joined the EU as part of the last enlargement, had changed their constitutions before or after accession, and the scope of the changes was different because of the specificity of the constitutional and legal arrangement of each country. Today, therefore, we have before us a proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is a step that is necessary to make the necessary adjustments to the legal, economic and administrative system of accession and the membership of Croatia's EU. EU membership also includes the transfer of certain constitutional powers to EU institutions, the direct legal effect and application of EU law and the guarantee of certain rights to EU citizens in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Before accession, each candidate country should establish a constitutional and legal basis on the basis of which the EU will join, which may include a referendum. This is, in addition to the law and sublaws, regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, therefore, in the preparation for membership, it is necessary to make an appropriate constitutional and legal adjustment in relation to the new political and legal environment in which Croatia will be located before and after accession of the EU. Some issues of constitutional law also arise during the negotiation process as an integral part of individual negotiating chapters. Like. issues of the position of the National Bank of Croatia or the extradition of Croatian citizens on the basis of a European arrest warrant. The introduction of a European arrest warrant will open up new penalties for criminal offences regardless of where the suspect is located, and implies and handing over persons to another country at the time when a criminal offence is brought against him for one of the 32 offences listed in the warrant. Such as terrorism, racism, human trafficking, corruption, serious murder or drug trafficking. The current constitutional provision shall be as follows: 9th does not allow the extradition of Croatian citizens to other countries and therefore is an obstacle to the execution of a European arrest warrant. The integration process also requires the Republic of Croatia to regulate the position of the Croatian National Bank in the context of harmonisation with the acquis, in order to ensure full independence of the institution and to enable its integration into the European System of Central Banks. The issue of the independent position of the State Audit Office as the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia should also be regulated. It would be good to strengthen the independent position of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council from any influence of the Executive and Legislative Authority. EU membership also seeks to ensure a legal framework in the exercise of EU citizens' rights to local and regional self-government since the Treaty establishing the European Community guarantees them an active and passive electoral right at local level in the EU Member States they are staying in and are not citizens of that country. As regards the sources of law in the EU, they include founding contracts, but also rules such as regulations, directives or decisions made by EU institutions on the basis of founding contracts, which may be referred to by parties in judicial proceedings as a source of subjective rights. It is therefore necessary to give the courts a constitutional basis to apply EU law directly. According to the current Constitutional provision for a positive outcome of the referendum, a very strict majority is required, i.e. the majority of the vote of all voters in the country. Which means that any non-referencing to a referendum is a vote against, which in the event of a referendum being organised on the basis of the existing Constitutional Provisions could question the fact that the referendum does not give rise to the actual will of the constituency of the electoral body. It is therefore necessary to approach the constitutional changes necessary to complete a long process of preparation and adaptation for the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. We believe it is possible to reach compromise solutions that have not yet been reached, and have reached agreement when adopting this highest legal act. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52204	Thank you. That debate ended the debate in clubs, and we move on to individual debates. The first is the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, whenever the Constitution is adopted, whenever the Constitution changes that I am the process, that I am causing great public attention, it is quite normal and expected because the Constitution determines what values we will protect, what social relations are of such importance that they must enjoy special constitutional protection, which are values that must be raised to the constitutional level. We were offered here, from the kitchen, as my predecessors said, the HDZ, which was cooked, which is on the menu. There's only dessert, and it's already a citizen's stomach that hurts, there's no main dish, so I'm going to say right now that neither I nor my SDP colleagues are going to sign your menu, but we still believe that constitutional changes have to continue the talks. For what? Because this package that you've brought here makes the plagues change the Constitution, so are we going to Europe with the fur changes to the Constitution? Grumpy? Is that our destiny? Which is why something that is of such importance to Croatian citizens is not meant to be understood and the need for it to be introduced into the Constitution. Which is why everything that many associations have said, which is why what the Ombudsman said yesterday, who gave a great report on the state of human rights and on the politicisation of still state administration, and on the necessity of depolitisation, and threw himself out with great anger and anger of HDZ deputies because the government forbids problems. It's all good. However, the protection of human rights is what we insist on at the SDP Club, which is why it is very important for us to have the position of the civil defender, as the only institution that has not been intimidated and which has a very strong reason that everything he has stated in his measures and also on the need for constitutional changes in order to better protect citizens and his better constitutional position. How is it possible that it is simply not an interesting institution for you to have access to information. We see that the law is being played out, and that is the main anti-corruption measure and the main preventive measure. Because when power is open to the extreme, transparent little possibilities are for some kind of marifetteluke or corrupt behavior. But there's no such thing. Why don't you care about constitutional positioning and the life of compulsory and free schooling, who's afraid of their own educated citizens. However, here it is, in most cases, not a question of what has been found in the constitutional changes and in the proposal, the biggest problem is what does not exist. Says a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club, which is an important diaspora vote for you. Remember, gentlemen of the HDZ, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not diaspora. Often, the great Croats go hand in hand to some neo-Bedish historians and ideologists, who in their "research" indicate that only Bosniaks and Muslims are natives and that the Croats only came recently. And just like these messages you send from the Parliament that the Croats are diaspora go to that water, you give water to that mill. Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina should not be voting machinery. Which is why you do not want to resolve this issue, whether it remains an electoral instrument for political engineering, for one vulgar macaravelism, for decent citizens and voters is one of the major disappointments of the 2003 coalition, at the end of the day, was the need for changes. So such a concern and now the ignoring of citizens and the needs and demands of citizens, the vast majority of citizens to resolve this issue in a transparent way, no one takes away the right of Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina to dual citizenship, nor the right of Croatian citizens, or Croatian citizens, regardless of where they are to vote, however. And is it necessary to go to pre-election times and scare people, should it be said that that other option will take away their dual citizenship, should it scare those people who are already pretty frustrated there, instead of strengthening their self-awareness as a self-involved constituent people, care every day for those people there or only when they really need to be voters and an ordinary electoral machine? Let's just remind ourselves. For the first five years, there was no such election solution, there was no special list. And when does that happen? Just when things aren't going very well, when it's thickened up so it should've been used like this. And no one has a problem with people voting. But to make it transparent, to know where they vote. Isn't it the most normal thing for Croatian territory to be considered something considered by textbooks as Croatian territory outside the borders, so diplomatic representations, planes, ships, consular representations? What's the big deal here anyway? So, that also includes setting up voters, setting up voters' lists, lists. So let's remember a little something that recently a year ago, two embarrassed Croatia throughout Europe. When the choices come, the soul gets upset, so here's an example. Anja Besar of Capljina, who died in 2000 and voted in 2005. The truth did not vote in 2007 although it had the right to vote, but only a year ago was it removed from the voter's list. So that's the vote when the dead vote. And there are still a number of people who have died whose names are being manipulated. These are the things the citizens want to get rid of. But you don't want to. You're even saying it doesn't matter, that's not the problem. Then you are deaf, dumb and blind, and then you do not hear what the citizens say. How dangerous this process is precisely used by misusing their electoral right, calling these people here today we heard Mrs. Lovrin say diaspora, how dangerous that term had to react and high church dignitaries of the Catholic Church trying to gain this new self-awareness of Croatian beings and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, gentlemen, what you often say and what HDZ started with its policy in Croatia. We have Croatia, we have a diaspora, we have a constitution, you give it we have substitutes instead of verbs to have to be. So let everyone be in Croatia. Let the Croats also be in Bosnia and Herzegovina and let Croatia be a courteous country and, as such, enter the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52206	Thank you very much. And now we're going first to correct the incorrect allegations. There's more of them. Well, then, first honorary representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Anticevic-Marinović. She said that yesterday, during the report, the Pussy Ombudsman was cast out with anger and anger by HDZ deputies. On the other hand, it was rejected by the reasoned opposition and opposition of the flat-rate and incorrect evaluations, and we have contrasted it with concrete examples of the implementation of the Law on the depolitisation of the state administration, on concrete examples that were present at that occasion in that Chamber. Furthermore, it is incorrect that I told the constituent Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina that they are diaspora, I was talking about the right to vote for diaspora and for all Croatians who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and they do not have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52208	Thank you. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52209	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Here's a representative who incorrectly says that this package is made up of the furlough changes of the Constitution. This is incorrect because it is the government's readiness for dialogue, given the awareness that it is a fundamental document for all citizens and citizens in Croatia, which guarantees security and leads to such a high degree of consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52210	Thank you. It is up to the correcting of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Antičević did not say that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are diaspora and why you are in fact disinforming the Croatian public. Nobody said that. So we are talking about Croats, Croatian citizens, not really Croatians, but Croatian citizens, among whom there are ethnic and non-Croatian and the right to vote those who do not have residence in Croatia. On the other hand, let the dead rest in the peace of God. Let's stay away from them. The up-to-date voter lists have nothing to do with the right vote. Did it happen that someone misread the name and last name of the person who came to the polls? She has the same name and name as the one that wasn't, unfortunately, erased and passed away. It is impossible to clear up to that extent the voter lists, for people also pass away a few days before the election. So, let's not be fooled, I have to say that you've really fooled the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52212	Time. Now it is up to representative Susana Bilić Vardić to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague said and accused us of not caring for the right to access information. My colleagues are not right because we follow the law you passed in 2003. And just to remind you that the amendments to the Law on the right to access information are planned for the second quarter of this year, so it will be until the end of this session to adapt to the acquis of the European Union. Another incorrect quote from a colleague who said they advocated a transparent vote by the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is that you make it as difficult for them as possible to participate in the elections, i.e. their vote for elections for the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52214	Thank you. Now it's time to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52215	Thank you very much. So again, I am correcting the incorrect allegations that "the HDZ Club has made the claim that the Croats are from BiH diaspora". That's what we never said. We know exactly what diaspora means. The diaspora are displaced nations under the power of the conquerors under the communist force in 50 years of communist dictatorship. These do not include Croats from BiH. They are indigenous to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The indigenous people know that too well a colleague who is now on the phone instead of listening to the correction of an incorrect quote, but it belongs to a family bonton. And she deliberately set us up with this lie because she knows it was the HDZ that was the most responsible that Croats and other indigenouss in Bosnia and Herzegovina were after the Yugoslav People's Army attack in November '92. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the village of Ravno occupancy with the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52216	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative of Sunchana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I will correct the incorrect allegations of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The esteemed representative said, "Here, thank you very much." Now she's listening. She's not on the phone anymore. She said they're just an election machine for HDZ. So, I'm asking without underestimating anyone in this High House, and it also seems to me that this potentiation of the subject just draws attention to what we want to talk about. So these are constitutional changes related to the European Union and I hope that no one will vote against it. I call for common sense. And speaking of this or that, and if it were SDP, we wouldn't be in NATO yet, but we'd probably still be discussing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52218	Thank you. There is now another correction, distinguished representative Ivan Škaricic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct Mrs. Anticevic Marinovic's incorrect quote, which is when she said that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are voting machinery, and that they are used for electoral engineering. I think it's inadmissible and it's not true. No one, but not one man, is part of some machinery, but has the free will to vote in the elections, as well as Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also believe that the highlight of cynicism is to give them the right to vote and limit it to several locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52220	Thank you. Now we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid, we are discussing the decision to join the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and in this topic we have introduced the terms menu, menu, spy card. It's a good thing Vice President Shakespeare admitted that he wasn't the author, but that this box card was made for him. However, when you mentioned the Ombudsman, I must tell the truth that even in the menu of your proposal for constitutional amendments to the Ombudsman, there was no point in the debate, and that I was the only one who made it. What the debate will look like when we come to the content of constitutional changes if this is different with the different information from that parity group we are only discussing the decision to approach the amendments to the Constitution. If this is a box card, then there's one thing missing from it, and that's a price list, and they appreciate that ticket. And I assure you that always as it is in life and after this will come the waiter and say he will pay please. Both sides of the proposal are calling for citizens in different situations with different arguments, supporting their claims and their views. And if we can't agree on the content even of this constitutional change menu, how about those citizens we all call on ask about the content of constitutional changes when they're written, no matter who they write them, no matter who they're going to be author, so that they decide whether or not this spy card is acceptable and later the main dish with or without dessert for them. That's what it's called when citizens are asked, it's called a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52222	Thank you. I would, however, ask distinguished MPs and MPs, we are talking about the basic document of a nation and you have all said it nicely, so forgive the menu and the spy card and all those who do so, but don't call your basic document and the spy card and the menu and everything else that really has nothing to do with it. Please! As we have introduced some other words that were wrong, I ask you to continue the debate on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as a basic document of a people. Thank you very much. So more dignity towards both ourselves and the House, but also to the people we have often called upon here. I would now like to request the representative of the motionor, on behalf of the motionary representative, the esteemed Vice President of House Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52223	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, will first remind me of what I said in one of my presentations, said that the organisation for the European Security and Cooperation OSCE had assessed its Office for Democracy and Human Rights and the presidential elections and parliamentary elections fair, correct and with the application of democratic standards and standards of the civilized world. Its claim, therefore, that because in these elections one of these elections was voted by one deceased, that Croatia was embarrassed simply does not stand. And the disgrace of Croatia, therefore, did not occur because of it, did not occur at all. It could appear that you are embarrassing Croatia with your false statement. It is not the same message that the Croatian people say the message from HDZ's wing is that the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are diaspora. This never came from HDZ, nor will it come and then don't plant it. It's to plant. No diaspora. We are here discussing the rights of Croatian citizens regardless of nationality and religion and any other traits on their right to vote. Croatian citizens who have residence outside Croatia are not only Croats. They are also Serbs, they are Bosniaks, they are Hungarians, Italians and others. It's not just the Croats. It is, therefore, important for Croatian citizens. And put in the context that it is crucial and important only to abolish the 11th electoral unit proposal for constitutional changes, the three opposition parties direction clearly and precisely to abolish the 11th electoral unit. The election law that was passed in '99. For years, it was brought by legal experts. His writers, the authors were legal experts, most of them were SDP's wingmen, and we passed this Electoral Law, and therefore the Electoral Law carried out the elections in 2000 and 2003 and 2007. Therefore, if something needs to be changed, then the Election Law should be amended. Do not refer to the amendment of the Constitution because in this article. 45. The constitution states that the Republic of Croatia ensures its citizens, its citizens to vote when they are out of the country and otherwise established by law. That other way was solved with the Electoral Law. So don't draw attention to something that isn't the subject of constitutional matter. It is an object of the electoral right of the place to vote and where it will be voted, it is the subject of electoral legislation and of the accompanying regulations relating to electoral legislation. Second of all, it's not about any piece of shit in the Constitution. What's the meaning of the U.S. Constitution? Well, this isn't the adoption of a new constitution, and in your motion to change the Constitution, you had only 5, 6 different points that were different than they were, except those that were in the government's proposal. We said that in a proposal to change the Constitution, apart from what was in the government's proposal, you put the budget in the majority of all votes, not as the president of your party or you spoke about, or Mrs Pusic, the two-thirds majority. That wasn't even in your proposal, so you need to be careful, you need to read what is written, so you need to read it well. Secondly, the public record of constitutional judges being passed by a two-thirds majority was the same in your constitutional changes. And this is to ensure that Croatian citizens' right to vote, come, that they must vote in Croatia. And that's all. So how did some of you have some new, whole constitutional changes? You didn't have one. You were right not to. So, it's not about the cross of the Constitution, it's about knowing the elements of the doctrine of constitutional law, and then discussing, rather than not referring to the elements of the constitutional right to talk about the cross of the Constitution. And finally a surprise, you wonder, colleague Anticevic, that the problem is not what it says, which is in the proposal, but that the problem of what is not in these changes of the Constitution. So as an example, you point out the Attorney General, you point out the right to access information. So let me remind you of something. I, just as the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, invited all civil society associations and they were on one round table in the Croatian Parliament on 2 April all their various initiatives explained, sub-strategic and civil society organisations were at the consultation at the Faculty of Law in Rijeka, were at the Journalist House in the organization of GONG, were on the same round table, at one discussion in Transparency International, organized by the "Hienrich Bell" Foundation and at all these discussions, I delivered all these proposals and all these initiatives to authorised applicants, therefore for changes to the Constitution, and called them on them, and specifically called on you because at one debate, the president of the SDP Milanovic spoke in the government building when we agreed on these constitutional changes, so why did not enter the right to access the information? Why don't you put this in the Constitution, why don't you put that in the Constitution? What about civil society initiatives? I've always answered them, so you gentlemen, you're authorized by the promoters, you put it in the bill of the Constitution. You have never put that in the proposal of the Constitution, nor, until today, do you put it in the proposal of the Constitution, and then criticise it, you express the wonder why it is not put into the proposal of the Constitution. And if it's all rhetorical now, you're yelling here, calling, you don't care about HDZ to bring it into the Constitution. You don't care about that from HDZ, from the ruling coalition to bring these institutes into the Constitution that proposes civil society associations. And you care. If you care, then suggest that it be entered into the Constitution. So suggest in a prescribed and valid way, not just a lamentation and stories without end and end. Therefore, what is not in the proposal for amendments to the Constitution does not exist because none of the mandated motions to amend the Constitution have proposed it. Not a group of MPs, one-fifth, not the President of the Republic, not the Government, not you. So what is not in the proposal for a change to the Constitution is not debated.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52224	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52225	Among other things, I'm going to correct what I can do right now and document, if you don't want this transcript to be incorrect. You said I made it up, I lied when I called and you didn't tell anyone at HDZ about the diaspora. I was quoting Mrs. Lovrin, so you don't seem to know what you're doing anymore. You don't even know what you're saying. And I would suggest that the Constitution be built into that forbidden lie. Here's what my colleague said, and that's what I was quoting. And just listen to what your colleague Lovrin said, "and just a few words about institutes that are not available in this change, which are much mentioned in the debates, and this is about the diaspora vote."as if it were important, the most important issue, the issue of europeanisation. And I'd just say that we're going to enter Europe and that no one's asking us if the diaspora is going to vote. And you're telling me to make up and lie. You may be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52226	Thank you. Dear MPs, why are you discussing this? Why are you trying to insult an entire club of MPs? Please... So no one insulted you, it's you... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So please, nicely enough, you can't have every polymize, you have to keep your mouth shut while you're being told, you have to. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I ask you not to insult the other MPs in the House because you have no right to do so. It's neither nice nor necessary. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative and vice-president of Parliament Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52227	This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure, my colleague Anticevic, I didn't tell you that you were lying, it seemed to you. Just like you thought I was, when you quoted the excerpt from the phonogram of Agent Lovrin. Ms. Lovrin spoke about the diaspora vote and you translated it into your performance just before HDZ provided a message that the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina were diaspora. That's two different things, I guess you can see that by yourself unless you've had a violent argument with elemental logic. And I don't have any excuses for you, because I didn't do anything to you sorry, you should apologize for throwing me something that you should be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52228	Thank you. There's no reason to sharpen the debate like that. Let's move on with the individual debate, it's time for the distinguished representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52229	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, I'm going to try to do what you said with dignity to discuss this very important document and try not to use the terms used here this morning. We heard this morning from Minister Shimonovic who spoke on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and who said two key remarks, one is that the haste about the adoption of these changes and the other is that no door has been closed for further negotiations until the end of the vote of these constitutional changes, which means that the door is open and that I hope the talks will continue to reach the consensus. We also heard several times the President of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Mr Shex, who spoke to us about the procedure, which fully explained the procedure, which may have admitted that it might be unusual, but that it was in accordance with the Constitution, that the procedure respects articles of the Constitution 142 to 145 and that it is in the spirit of constitutional change. There are also two proposals ahead of us, one of the government's proposals is the second proposal of 52 MPs. We heard there was no vote on either, nor on the other, as a result of our joint agreement, a parity working group formed, the task force repeatedly sat down and failed to reach consensus. However, we hope that a consensus will continue during the course of the procedure and that the talks will continue. The fact is that the necessity of adopting these constitutional changes stemmed from the adjustment of the law on entry into the European Union and there is no doubt about it, we have a consensus here, and some amendments have also been proposed as a result of various initiatives, which is why we all agree on the addition of the original basis with the entry into the Constitution of all national minorities in order to achieve constitutional equal status. Another newspaper is also the introduction of non-depreciation of war profits, so it seeks to eliminate the injustices that have taken place. It is also to highlight the rise to the constitutional level, as our representative of Mrs Lovrin's club said, the confiscation of illegally acquired property during these actions, it is important to raise it to the Constitutional Level. I agree that all of this together contributes to the europeanization that we have introduced here this morning as a term and spoke of it several times. And even when we propose some institutes that some old European democracies do not have but I think it is good for Croatia and I believe that we are all complex about it. We also heard from the president of the Committee of Mr. Seks that our two proposals differ only in 6 points and that these 6 points were mostly agreed on by the public notation he spoke of here this morning, about the adoption of the budget, about the two-thirds majority to elect Constitutional Judges, about also Article 15(3). The Constitution where we propose and I believe agreed to join the writing of the Constitutional Law on Article 15. The only thing we did not agree on was Article 45, and I believe there is still room for discussion and this whole controversy is not about the essence of constitutional changes, but about this article that we did not agree on. So it's not 100% accepted what was proposed on both sides, so if it were, it would be a compromise, unfortunately, there's no compromise. I believe that we will not be allowed to be stopped by article 45, so I will dare say, on my way to the European Union, and there have been speeches today, and these days there have been speeches about whether the false dilemma of the Constitution or the European Union, however, is a dilemma, I hope that this article 45 cannot be an obstacle on our journey to the European Union. I don't believe there's anyone in this House who'd like to block our way into the European Union. You know that a lot of what we are losing and our plan has been and it is said by the chairman of the National Committee, Ms Pusic, that we want to finish negotiations by the end of this year if it is possible, and I believe that it is possible, it mentions as the final session of the Parliament in September month I think there is no reason to wait for this deadline and that we must find a way to agree and end this before the summer to end the negotiations and to inherit everything that is waiting for us in the European Union, and I hope that this document, I agree with my colleague Pupovac, who has said that we are first of all for our own sake, of course, but it is not just the Constitution that we bring about ourselves, but all of these European laws that we have coordinated these years, every time we have started our debate and in the Committee on European Integrations, we are not changing these laws and we agree with Europe, but because of Europe. So all the 474 laws we've passed, 1,000 and several acts, we've brought for ourselves, I believe, and then for the European Union. So this Constitution and I believe that we will agree on this means there remains a dilemma, a constitution, a change in the Constitution or a conclusion of negotiations. We need to find a way out of this situation and I believe we'll succeed. We talked here a little bit this morning about the essence of change we talked more about procedure and talked more about what we disagreed on. I want to do it again. We only have a few situations we disagreed on. And this is an article 45 which means the exercise of the electoral rights of Croatian citizens without residence in Croatia. We didn't agree on compulsory education, but that's why it's not in this proposal. We did not agree on article 15 of the supplemental vote, the vote of the national minorities. But I believe you'll accept that we're going to go to the Constitutional Law on amending the new constitutional law that will regulate it. So, what I'd like to say is, if anyone objects, but we believe we'll come to our senses. It wouldn't be good if we didn't finish negotiations and it's not good to go to the 11th constituency. Because it all turns out that these two are the only key topics. So the 11th electoral unit is abolished and the negotiations are closed. It is not in Croatia's interest and I do not believe that in this House anyone will be interested in it. Once again important to note when it comes to that lady from Capljina, I did not want to correct the incorrect allegations, but if the OSCE has qualified the last parliamentary elections in the last parliamentary elections, the last presidential elections as correct, then I do not think that one example can be used to express Croatia's disgrace. I don't think Croatia is embarrassed and that we are going in the right direction, but of course it will depend on all of us here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52230	Thank you. And now we have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52231	You and your colleagues have said that it is necessary to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia urgently in order to join or join the European Union. I simply cannot understand how this is urgent again, because I must remind you that on 14 October last year this House discussed the government's proposal for constitutional changes, and on 22 October last year by a group of opposition deputies. Today is April 28th, 6 months have held only 7 meetings in an attempt to agree on a joint proposal. The public on the content of the various proposals for the content of these proposals almost knew nothing, while definitely both sides said we did not agree and announced how it would be. So if it's so urgent that it's been working for six months in the parity group to use that term in the report. It has not been urgent for six months, and you are now claiming that the Assembly must change the Constitution urgently because it is otherwise threatened to bring Croatia closer to the European Union. And two. That those who are against these constitutional changes are against Croatia's entry into the European Union. I am against the proposed decision to amend the Constitution. And now you can accuse me of being against Croatia's entry into the European Union, but I'm not. And all the time, I've been telling you that other than content, it's the same way. You citizens to whom you are calling do not want to ask about anything or about constitutional changes. And you want to mutilate the European referendum in a way that only a quarter of the citizens make a decision, just a quarter. And you say it's urgent. It is an emergency for you, not for the citizens of Croatia, to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52232	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52233	As I said earlier, I quoted a minister who said on behalf of the government that these changes require urgency. And I agree with that attitude myself. As for the 6 months you've been talking about, Mr. Shex explained this morning at 3:4 a.m. and described in his report to his Committee on the Constitution what was going on since the first of October, and on October 16th, then October 20th, then the parity group, and then the attempt of the agreement, and the various round tables. The public was very involved, and the public is very familiar with the content of constitutional changes, and I believe that you did not follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52234	It is next to the replica of Honorable Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52235	I'm giving the replica because I agree with my colleague Schuce's spirit and intent, but I'd like to sort out one detail in a way. It's not the legal reasons you said in my opinion that stand in the way of bringing these constitutional changes, but they're political. Even Mr. Simonovic said that there are many elements that even the chapter on justice would not be because of the chapter itself, but because of certain political reasons. And we here have mostly agreed on all the necessary legal reasons. We didn't agree on political reasons, unfortunately. And I think that there are many of us on the wrong path because we include in political reasons something we should not, which is very good, fair and very correct talked about by Mr. Pupovac, which is that two bundles of questions, the question of which is the vote of Croats outside Croatia, and the question of minority votes are seen as part of the political prey of some parties, one or the other, third or fourth. We should not talk about who they will vote for or observe them in that way. This really spreads injustice toward one another and to the other. This is about principled issues, so principled issues can be settled in a principled way, and they can be solved within the 11th constituency, is that maybe you're wrong to say no one here has proposed today abolishing the 11th constituency, though. Whether that path will lead through a fixed quota, whether it will lead in some other way, it is on the responsibility of all of us, those who run these negotiations, but also of every MP here personally in the Parliament, to bring this up and to overcome this problem. We must not allow a situation where one group will say that another is responsible for some failure, and another political group is responsible for her first. Because those who will evaluate us will be third, that we are all guilty together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52236	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52237	And so I'd just like one more sentence, which is that at this point everyone agrees that further talks should be continued so that the expression will then be resolved on the acceptance of these amendments that we've given, because that's on that trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52238	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52239	Well, I agree with Mr. Vujic that they must be political reasons, but I also want to say that so far the legislation that is in force is legal and well known in the world. I also call for what Mr. Shakespeare said before not to interfere with electoral legislation and constitutional law. So either way, there's room for conversation between our two groups and we need to agree on that. I believe we will because it is the only way to vote constitutionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52240	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative and vice president of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52241	Thank you very much. The entire pledoies of Mr. Lesar's representative were for his proposal to include in these constitutional changes that the amendment of the Constitution is working on a referendum, to call a referendum on which a decision will be taken, yes or no, and any change to the Constitution with criticism that the work so far has been done behind the back of the public, that the public is not familiar with these constitutional changes. I'm here to say that it's just not true, that it's not true. The Croatian public is largely aware of the details of all constitutional changes as well as in any way since 2008, my colleague Leko remembers very well that we from the Committee on the Constitution have invited everyone to step up their initiatives on possible changes to the Constitution in the Assembly on the round table under the auspices of the Committee on the Constitution have come hundreds of different proposals from citizens, associations, all possible changes to the Constitution. After that, the government's working group, where all the experts of constitutional law were representatives of the negotiating team, where they were from the Office of the President of the Republic, from the MPs, the Constitutional Court, discussed those constitutional changes necessary for Croatia's accession to the European Union. In this High House, which is the most representative body of citizens, which is the largest public mirror there has been discussed on a number of occasions on constitutional changes. Constitutional changes were discussed at various round tables, at various scientific and professional meetings, at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka. He's not in Split. He'll be in Split. We invited all the rectors, all the deans of all colleges, political sciences, the Faculty of Philosophy, the Faculty of Law, the Economics to organise these discussions in their environments, in their university, teaching, academic environments. The trusts of many organized their debates. GONG, Transparency International, hundreds and hundreds of individuals appeared with their initiatives and ideas for constitutional change. We have them on an immense crowd of those who sent both representatives and the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Republic and the Prime Ministers and members of the Government, club representatives. So, the public, numerous performances that were on TV, on the radio, where constitutional changes were discussed. And now the question is one question, and who else can claim that the public is not familiar with constitutional changes to do something behind the back of the public. Probably those who slept through all these possible discussions and all the different parts of the constitutional debate that slept through this winter dream or were like bears and now they woke up and suddenly were not clear in their sleep that they could follow the public to discuss these constitutional changes. That's why my colleague Lesar, who keeps pleading for a referendum. So what is the Croatian Parliament as the most representative legislative and constitutional body than the highest expression of the Croatian public, Croatian citizens. By the Constitution, we are empowered and obliged to bring the Constitution, to discuss the Constitution. The media has been monitoring all these phases of constitutional change since two years ago. Why is the media just focusing on something that tickles the public? About the numerous constitutional changes that are very important for the lives of Croatian citizens, for the life of Croatia, for the functioning of the political, legal, economic system. But which are both important and important for Croatia's accession to the European Union at the same time, but are primarily important for the lives of Croatian citizens and citizens. This is, for example, the strengthening of the independence of the Croatian National Bank, the introduction into the Constitution of the National Institute for Audit, the entire legal framework of European legislation that is being included in the constitutional order of Croatia. All of this simply goes past those who are only interested in sensational things that are important, but what's most important is simply out of sight and everything concentrates on it, in a way and how someone is going to vote somewhere. And all these major changes for the lives of Croatian citizens, for the life of Croatia, for the functioning of the political system that one part of the media public does not care about. It's boring to them, it's to them, it's to them, it's to what anyone said to someone, something like this, a protégé. That's what this is all about, and what with those serious shows that were on the radio, hundreds of shows that were on the radio, on the central, on the radio Zagreb, on local radio stations, on Croatian TV, on other TVs that were, on local television, it's not like the public, it's not a public debate. Is all and every voice heard in public even if the slightest voice and the tiniest voice is the voice of the public. This voice is also best heard in the Croatian Parliament because it is the only real place, where those responsible to the public are expressed the voice of Croatian voters, Croatian citizens and all of Croatia as representative bodies. That's why there's no such thing as the thesis and the claims that something is done between the public, against the public, without the public, and behind the back of the public, against the public. The public is very much involved and will continue to be involved with an even greater capacity than it is so far in further work on constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52242	Thank you. Well, the public is also included today via direct television transmission. That would end the morning session. At 15... No one's seen... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52243	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the assumption that we've had a democratic public debate. It's simply incorrect. We've had a democratic solution to your proposal. Because if it were a public debate, then at least one proposal would have been made to the public, if I didn't say that what 52 MPs of this House had proposed was not a democratic public debate, it was a solution to your proposal. And don't plant this story, letting it out in public doesn't mean it was a democratic public debate. We're going without it into constitutional change.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52244	Thank you very much, but some kind of proposal that needs to be made was a public debate, for God's sake! All right. At 3 p.m., we will continue, first of all, please, firstly the honourable representative Boris Kunst, and secondly, the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Thank you very much and welcome. We're continuing our afternoon session the way I announced. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52246	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, fellow MPs. Well, it's a shame the opposition deputies spent all morning talking to the public about everything and everything, and even about dead souls, but not about the essential proposals in the change of the Constitution. The opposition today was so bile in its debates that it was not even Slovenian parliamentarians when they discussed our Savudrija vala and the blockade of Croatia's negotiations. There's no reason to spill so much bile in today's debate to mention some spy cards, menus, etc., unless it's some digestive interference of some of the MPs related to that spy map. But it seems that's the way it has to be because if it's the one who's going to tell who if they don't want their own then this opposition aggression obviously justifies that syntagma. I simply do not want to believe that it is not clear here today that any further delay in the amendment of the Constitution and those parts that are related to the conclusion of negotiations with the EU so-called. In part, it would stop the further process of negotiations because certain laws of the EU package, which are related to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, could not be passed in time. The consequences would then be far-reaching for Croatia because by the end of this year, it would not have been possible to complete all the necessary negotiations on Croatia's entry into the EU, which I believe should be among all of us. I read somewhere these days that someone in the opposition said that if the constitution changes only because of the need to join the EU, it is only the political elite's interest, not Croatian citizens. So I ask you what kind of pure demagogy is that? First of all, who can claim that the interest of Croatian citizens is not to join the EU? That's not true, it's a clean bluff. On the contrary. I believe that the vast majority, the majority of Croatian citizens, is of great interest to Croatia to enter an economically strong and legal EU. And what's so controversial about the proposed amendments to the Constitution that the opposition doesn't accept it and I'd say it spills so much bile in vain? Is it disputed that all national minorities are listed in the original foundations of the Constitution? Well, I don't think that's controversial, and that shouldn't be controversial. Is it a controversial application of the European arrest warrant? I don't think so. Is the independence of the CNB and the State Audit controversial? Well, I think that's exactly what the opposition insists on. I believe that it is not disputed that the limitation of war profiting from the part of conversion and privatisation is abolished. This isn't all disputed. Now there is clearly a controversial vote by Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. Well, if a deal cannot be reached there, there can be no compromise, it can be arranged by the Constitution, so let the issue be settled by election law. Why should this issue be precisely governed by the Constitution when there are states that also regulate it by their Electoral Law. Why does the opposition insist and blackmail that the issue must be resolved by the Constitution and not by law? Well they obviously have an electoral bill that is greater than the interests of Croatian citizens, and it is obvious that Croatia is as soon as possible, and Croatian citizens normally have their own interest in Croatia as soon as possible to complete the negotiations process and by the end of this year as it is planned. Therefore, my impenetrable gentlemen, stay out of the way of business if you do not aim for Croatia to wait for its entry into the EU along with other former republics of ex Yugoslavia. If it is, be open and then say it. I believe you're doing yourself a bear favor with your behavior. Because if you disable Croatia's entry into the EU, and I believe that it did not work out for the Slovenians either, you will have to explain to the citizens of Croatia what was so much opposition to your party and why you were against these constitutional changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52247	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52248	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to point out that I support the proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We know that in October of last year the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We know that representatives of the Croatian Parliament submitted in October 2009 a proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of amending the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on matters important for the accession of the Republic of Croatia. What is the importance of constitutional change? What is the interest of the professional public and the public at all? The importance of the debate on constitutional changes is also given to the fact that after the debate on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and after the debate on the proposal of the Croatian Parliament before the Croatian Parliament, a parity working group has been established with the aim of finding common constitutional solutions and proposing a harmonised draft amendment to the Constitution. Many working group meetings have resulted in an agreement in a number of issues. Therefore, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has proposed to approach the amendment of the Constitution by supplementing the original grounds, i.e. the introduction into the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of all national minorities, and to implement changes and additions related to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union relating to several articles of the Constitution taxically stated, and to introduce complements on the non-depreciation of the criminal acts of war profit and crime in the process of conversion and privatisation. Furthermore, it is proposed to prescribe the obligations and time limits for the adoption of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the entry into force of the amendment of the Constitution. I am sure that this proposal for a decision is going in the right direction, and all discussions have shown that constitutional changes are inevitable for the Republic of Croatia and its entry into the European Union. I believe that this debate in the Croatian Parliament will show this and give a good basis for making a proposal for establishing a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, given the necessity of completing the accession negotiations, by ensuring an appropriate constitutional and legal basis for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and by achieving the membership and effective functioning of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, I support the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as established by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, which was also adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its meeting yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52249	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will introduce that this Decision on the Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should absolutely be supported and, in my opinion, for three basic reasons. The first of them is therefore in a substantive sense, so in terms of the proposed changes to concrete constitutional and legal institutes. The second is, in a procedural or procedural sense, therefore, the proposal for a decision should be entrusted to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to submit, on the basis of the amendments and amendments proposed and the discussions held in the Croatian Parliament, the debates held in the Croatian Parliament, a proposal to determine the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And thirdly, we had the opportunity to hear on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, from the Honorable Minister of Justice, at the very beginning of the debate, so this Decision or the proposal for a decision in no way closes the door, does not remove the possibility of further discussing proposals for certain constitutional and legal institutes which, in the process of the amendments themselves, can otherwise be resolved. As regards the very specific amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that is, what is before us today, the largest part relates to the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union on the one hand, on the other hand, to the future membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, namely the development of its constitutional and legal position. Accordingly, we can systematise these changes in two separate groups, and the first of them concerns issues of a constitutional legal institution whose change implies an amendment to national legislation, thereby harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, and especially when it comes to issues of judicial concern, namely those relating to judicial reform procedures or the completion of this process of harmonisation or full harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. Of these issues, I think it is very important to highlight them in the debate itself, therefore, from these issues of constitutional and legal nature, particular attention should be paid to the changes to the constitution that would allow for different arrangements to be made by institutions related to the conduct of judicial duties, judicial immunity, the duration of the judicial duty, and constitutional and legal provisions relating to the way of selection, the membership of the State Judiciary Council and the State Attorney's Council. These institutions should also be accompanied by those provisions relating to the European arrest warrant, the Croatian National Bank, the State Audit Office, and a very important proposed amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which actually directly regulates what is the sources of law in the Republic of Croatia. The second group of constitutional and legal issues are entered, or those issues are made up of constitutional and legal institutes, which will only live in full by the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and they relate to the legal basis of membership, the transfer of constitutional powers, participation in the institutions of the European Union, the right of citizens of the European Union. Now, according to all the above, it is important to highlight, and already some of the colleagues have made this a big point, that, without amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the above-mentioned sense, not only does there not have a constitutional and legal basis for joining the European Union, but if changes do not happen, the negotiation process, which is particularly related to the amendment of the legislation in the Justice segment, cannot continue, and thus cannot be concluded. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are necessary in the procedure of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and without them it is impossible to complete this procedure. The follow-up to these constitutional changes should be addressed without delay and without unfair constitutional and legal debates which are needlessly delayed by the process, and would ultimately result in failure to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, precisely in terms of accession to the European Union. And finally, allow me also a few sentences about a constitutional-legal institute which today was not known for what reason most words, speeches, most references and some respected MPs mentioned and rightly even unnecessary bile when discussing or discussing the constitutional and legal institute. I guess what institute it's about, that's article 45. The Constitution. So this is the part of the Constitution that determines the right to vote, so all citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of their residence, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have no residence in the Republic of Croatia. In that article, paragraph 45 is replaced by The Constitution, therefore, in its fullness, elaborates a general equal electoral right as an indivisible and universal constitutional and legal institute which has been developed in a way that all Croatian citizens, I repeat, all Croatian citizens have a general and equal electoral right with 18 years of age in accordance with the law. The right to vote is exercised in direct elections and in secret voting. The Constitution also states in Article 45 that elections for the Croatian Parliament and president of the Republic of Croatia have the right to ensure that citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are located outside its borders at the time of the elections can also vote in the countries where they are located. Therefore, it is indisputable that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be able to vote abroad, and yet what needs to be regulated by a non-direct constitutional provision, in my opinion certainly not by a direct constitutional provision, but by an Electoral Law, and where there are always two ways or two solutions available between the other constitutional and legal theory and the professional literature. The first of them is a vote in diplomatic and consular representations where the foreign state allows, and the second, of course, a correspondence vote, i.e. a post office vote. And final. Here is the decision absolutely to be supported, and all that is in this amendment to the Constitution is "dispute" which still needs to be discussed and debated, it must not be conditional, or by stopping or by stopping in the process of amending the Constitution. These constitutional changes are necessary in the first order and for the completion of negotiations or the negotiation process... of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and then of course defining the constitutional and legal position of the Republic of Croatia when it becomes a full member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52251	Thank you. It is time for the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52252	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the proposal for a decision to join the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was established by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system after discussions were held in the Assembly on 14 October 2009 on the proposal for a decision on the accession of the Constitution with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And 22 October last year also on an election case submitted by 52 representatives of the Croatian Parliament. After both discussions were held, as has already been said, there has been no vote on any proposal for a decision, it has been found that a parity working group is being set up to try to agree on the proposals and solutions set out in both proposals. After a series of meetings and mutual consultations, the task force agreed to the majority. As many as 90% of the solutions in both constitutional changes are spoken, so the government's proposal and a group of MPs' proposal. However, no agreement has been reached on certain institutes. The debate has already been discussed with the institutes and articles specifically, so I won't repeat them. Since more than 6 months have passed since the debate on constitutional changes in the parliament, the working group, as well as the political parties, have failed to fully agree. I think it is justified to propose to continue the process of amending and supplementing those provisions of the Constitution that are agreed, which are necessary to complete Croatia's accession negotiations and membership in the European Union. Of course, this does not mean that it is still not possible to hear and reach consensus on the remaining issues of constitutional change, and I am convinced that this debate will certainly contribute. As a result of the discussions so far, the biggest opposition to this process of change in the constitution has led to the achievement of the electoral rights of Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal of a joint representative of SDP, HNS and IDS would be to abolish the possibility of voting for Croatian citizens at special polling stations abroad. It is now as current as I understand the proposal so that Croatian citizens abroad can only vote in embassies and consular offices and it is said to be some kind of compromise. But when it comes to this current proposal by a group of MPs, I think it's no longer constitutional matter, it's matter that is regulated or regulated by law. This proposal to determine the possibility of voting only in the embassies and consular representations is not of any fundamental nature and does not penetrate the Institute of General Election Law, as citizens living outside Croatia would still have the right to vote outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, such a proposal only makes it difficult for these people to access polling stations, seeking to create additional costs to demote them to go to the polls. I don't think that's justified or correct to these people. I also believe that the justification for the introduction of such a voting method is not and cannot be the prevention of possible irregularities. They get rid of each other in other ways. Above all, improving and improving the control and control system of the conduct of the elections, editing and updating of the electoral lists. I will also stress that the connection of the electoral right with the payment of taxes and similar conditions from the constitutional and legal position does not stand. In order to achieve general voting rights, three preconditions need to be met and a certain age, with 18 years of life, business ability and citizenship being completed. I would also like to say when it comes to the diaspora vote that the public is under the impression that it is our Croatian wetlands, that such a possibility exists only with us. Of course, it's completely wrong and incorrect. It should be said that the largest number of countries in the European Union through different models enables their citizens living, or having a place outside the country of origin to exercise their right to vote. In the end, I will say that I hope that as representatives of this House, we are so responsible that the decision on constitutional changes will not slow down or compromise Croatia's European path. We know that the necessity of certain constitutional changes is also indicated by the European Union during the accession negotiations process in a certain number of negotiating chapters where certain constitutional changes are identified as a direct condition for closing chapters. For these reasons, I will support this proposal for a decision on the accession of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52253	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52254	... today is primarily responsible for what is before the Republic of Croatia, which is the conclusion of negotiations for the entry into the European Union, and the closure and closure of the institutional and legal framework for our country to become a full member of the European Union. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] The responsibility of the Croatian Democratic Community and the ruling coalition is that negotiations starting with the SDP government by the end of 2010 and ending today, the HDZ government with its partners are ending. First of all, three debates, a democratic procedure that lasted 6 months, a lot of proposals, and I can say a lot of compromises from the first debate here from the government's proposal to the debate proposed by 52 SDP deputies to the conclusion of a working group that had more than 7 meetings to expert debates in the stands, seminars, round tables. I think six months is enough to say at this crucial moment that it is time for all MPs here in the Croatian Parliament to first take responsibility for the completion of this very important act. The basic legal document in the Croatian Constitution does not change every year. It changes that way and I can say freely in historical moments. This is a historic moment for our country, a historic moment for us to understand all MPs here at the Croatian Parliament High House to take responsibility and to allow our government to conclude by the end of 2010 the negotiating chapter of negotiations on the accession of our country to the European Union, and to find compromise and consensus here in the Croatian Parliament to adopt what has been agreed on both sides on both drafts on the working group here in the Croatian Parliament. I don't think there are any misunderstandings and disagreements, that the line is not drawn, that all that remains unclear is still on us representatives, on the working body, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure remain to be discussed. But the time has come since it is already half a year for us to accept these changes at the moment. I support them, and I hope that we will all support our colleagues here at the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52255	Thank you. Now it's up to the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richemergh. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Silvano Hrelja. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's losing his right to debate. And now it's time for the distinguished representative of Neven Mimica. He's got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In matters of amendments to the Constitution in action, I would say here in the Croatian Parliament and according to the Croatian Parliament and, above all, to the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, a kind of manipulation, procedural and content manipulation. I say procedural manipulation because the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure decided to revote the term of office of an unlimited parliamentary mandate that had a parity working group and which received that mandate from the Parliament to coordinate the positions and proposals of two authorised proposings. This was done in a way that was also affected by the content of what was agreed on the parity working group. So not only was this parity group disabling, it was expected at least that the working group would turn to the Croatian Parliament and report what is not, which they could not do, and not to do so instead of the Constitution Committee. But this Committee on the Constitution also made a substantive manipulation when it decided of its own free will, I would say on the criterion of usefulness for the ruling party to choose between what has already been agreed on on the working group as a scope, and even concrete content and expression of constitutional changes, and propose to the Parliament by revote the decision to launch constitutional changes and the scope that these changes should cover. By all accounts, the ruling HDZ has taken a path that leads nowhere, which does not lead to a solution, which can only end in exorcising the culprit for not making constitutional changes, which is a job that no one needs. It is a job that cannot bring results and it would be good in time to return to reason, return to rational political thinking, thinking and decision-making and return to the table at which I would be able to achieve a possible consensus on the scope and content of constitutional changes. Namely, responsibility, I would say is an intolerable responsibility to the government, to every government in every country, to create conditions for enforcement, to achieve national and state priorities and interests. It is also an intolerable responsibility for this government to create conditions for the conclusion of the negotiations and for Croatia's entry into the European Union. Trying to transfer that responsibility to another person is simply not helping. Even if it were successful in this impossible task of transferring intolerable responsibility, even if by some miracle it had failed. If we had a guilty man, we wouldn't have a Constitution. Therefore, I think that this responsibility is greater in front of all of us to return to political reason and to agree on how, at this stage of establishing a decision on accession, to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to determine the scope of these changes, how to complement them in a way that allows for a quality consensus debate on how to come out or how to come into the situation so that in that third phase we do not come to the Parliament with a draft of changes which would be uncertain that which political party will vote on it. Often this business of declaring pre-optimal then searching for the guilty, finding the culprits that someone has already said does not lead to success. The people know that the exorcism of one animal can end with the exorcising of another. Therefore, when we talk about this business which clearly took place by ruling HDZ, the business of seeking out an alibi for the postponement of negotiations within the self-imposed deadlines, I hold that we simply cannot and will not, as far as I am concerned I do not want to take part in this kind of debate on the Croatian Constitution. The main reason or main opposition apparently is the fact that opposition representatives or authorised proposings from a circle of opposition MPs retain their initiative to change the Constitution to the Article. 45th in which it is a way of achieving the electoral right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with a residence outside the Republic of Croatia, and not about how tenorous and at this meeting today, it is tried to present and distort that initiative in an attempt to abolish the right to vote for the diaspora. Therefore, it is about how to exercise the right to vote, to define this way of voting, and that is the question that I say is, in essence, at the very top of the interest that we hold to be defined in these amendments to the Constitution. However, it is also a broader problem. Namely, the Committee on the Constitution, including the Government, has come to the House with a narrowed-out, defiled European package of constitutional changes, with the exception that it is a European package without which the negotiations on Croatia's EU accession cannot be completed. Yes, the package also contains parts of constitutional changes without which negotiations cannot be completed, but it goes further than that. It goes both partially and in the area of creating conditions for the normal functioning of Croatia later in EU membership. And it is not disputed that it goes further than the conditions for the conclusion of the negotiations, but the issue is that it goes not far enough in that. In our opinion, this is an exceptional right to make this European package whole, to strengthen it with all those provisions, and we have proposed 8 such supplementary provisions. So, extending the scope of constitutional changes to 8 other areas with which this European package would indeed be European, with which it could only be talked about fully enabling Croatia to function within the EU in conditions that mean strengthening human rights and fundamental freedoms, which mean strengthening personal and political rights and freedoms. Such a complete package is something that we simply need to talk about and for which I call on all sides to sit at the table again and that without such an extended decision, they do not make a decision that simply cannot lead to the successful completion of this process. I am for the European package, I am for a complete solution to all issues that enable Croatia to function in the EU. So, the European package is yes, but not a European correspondent like this proposal that's on our table today. That the overall needs of constitutional changes were not taken into account also shows the fact that it was simply left out from this volume of change. Seven. A constitution that speaks about how to make decisions on the engagement of the Croatian Armed Forces and Allied Forces without which the change simply does not allow Croatia to function as a NATO member and cannot fulfil its obligations within the NATO alliance. Therefore, the implementation of this international obligation is not possible under the current scope of the Constitution, and this is another reason why the scope of the change needs to be expanded and it is therefore necessary to restore things to a serious debate on what is to be contained in this European package of constitutional changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52257	Thank you. We will briefly interrupt the session in order to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf, the members of the delegation of the Committee on the European Union's Question Committee of the Bundestag of the Federal Republic of Germany who are on an official visit to the Croatian Parliament. Welcome! And we move on with our work. [[Applause.]] We have three corrections to the incorrect allegations of the presentation of the esteemed representative of Neven Mimica. First up, distinguished representative Boris Kunst, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52258	Well, my colleague Mimica incorrectly said that it wasn't true or true that it was procedural and content manipulation if I understood it correctly, and I wrote down what he said. Well it is not procedural, my colleague Mimica you know very well that according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system referred this to Parliament. So there's no procedural respect for the law. As far as content manipulation is concerned, you haven't said a single word about what's controversial except now. The 7th you listed, and your colleague Shakespeare told you that everything the opposition suggested the board had accepted. Except for one issue, which was the vote of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. And there was a question where we disagreed, and everything else was accepted. So you can't say anything about content, but about where we disagree, and you don't want the Law on Elections to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52259	Thank you very much. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52260	Well, here's Mr. Mimica said that the ruling HDZ is on a path that doesn't lead anywhere, so go back to your senses. It is not true, on behalf of the government this morning, Minister Shimonovic, and the prime minister herself said yesterday that the door is open to negotiations and therefore I do not believe that it is going anywhere. I believe we'll find a deal. Another incorrect allegation, I do not want to participate in this kind of debate about the Constitution, and you have just participated in it and had a very serious conversation. So it's an incorrect quote. And a third, defiled EU package. I don't think that defiled EU package stands for the reason Mr Kunst just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52261	Thank you. And Frane Matušić correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect for you, Mimica, to know that it is incorrect for the ruling to seek an alibi in advance for any delay in the negotiations. You know very well that certain chapters in the negotiations cannot be closed unless changes to the Constitution are made. Of course, if there's an obstruction on your part, it won't be possible to complete the negotiations. So, we're not looking in advance for an alibi we're just warning about the urgency of these changes and secondly... you mention article 7. So the question arises how are the Croatian forces now participating in the NATO Armed Forces, based on what, if you say it is impossible in the future to send these forces. Based on what we've been sending them so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52263	Thank you. It is now in individual debate, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52264	Thank you very much. When a person reads this Report of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of 20 April, the second page of the third paragraph reads: “In the last meeting of the parity group held on 15 February, ” the parity group did not meet from 15 February to 4 months, “it was concluded that no agreement was reached on Article 15.(1), Article 45.(2), Article 65.(3), Article 86.This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.(5)’. So, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, it's not true that there's a disagreement around only one point, but in your report you're writing that there's a discrepancy of about 5 points. Secondly, I see things a little different from what's been presented here and what's been said here. I'll only talk about one aspect: Article 65. This Regulation shall enter The constitution speaks of compulsory education. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution has a consensus that this article should be changed, I will give you some information. The Government has proposed to amend this article, the representatives of the Government on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture have given up that formulation they have proposed and it is left to find an appropriate formulation to replace the existing Article 65. The SDP then joined the HNS and the IDS proposed its version of the article on compulsory and free education but it was not acceptable, then representatives of the SDP were with the Vice-Presidents of the Assembly and of the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and that we could not agree with the Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to find an acceptable solution together with the representatives of the SDP. The solution was accepted after an hour, but was rejected by the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. So, please, there is agreement, without any so far manifested resistance and different opinions that Article 65. The Constitution changes. We need to find a way to find a common formulation to change it together. What exactly is this about? It is about education which is the main engine of the development of humanity in the 20th and 21st centuries and we can actually declare it one of the key elements for the well-being of individuals and for the well-being of people in general about this education, that is, the status of education in the Constitution, we speak of two specific cancers or two specific elements. One is colleagues and colleagues that 200 years old is a tradition, namely when Europe begins to control education, that education has two components, one of these components is education for work, that is, education that will enable people to fund life. The second specific circumstance is that the 20th and 21st centuries in which the tremendously fast and horrendous amount of knowledge and knowledge is growing, and education is defined but is being extended at the same time. The process of education is being extended and this is a situation in almost all developed countries. So, there is a constant extension of education, however, it is quite clear that formal compulsory schooling cannot be enough for the overall human existence, but then another lifelong learning is being introduced or another way of saying that the whole story of education is permanent in today's world. European countries handle this in different ways, some constitutions, some different legal measures, but almost all of them, and all European Union countries have compulsory education until the first qualification is obtained. In fact, the countries of the European Union, the continental countries of the European Union and stimulate different forms of education, and after the first qualification, are almost free of charge throughout the whole range of European countries. Such changes, in education systems are recognised in Croatian colleagues and colleagues, SDP already has this in several mandates in its programme, HNS has this in its programme, HSLS has this in its programme, the government in the last two mandates has a secondary education in its programme. The government's strategic documents on Croatia's development, on the development of the education system in the Republic of Croatia, parliamentary documents recognise the need for education, so either compulsory high school or education until the first qualification. So there's an agreement there's a political atmosphere, there's a desperate need to get rid of it. And that's why it's necessary for me to think that we can agree on that and agree on that. To find some meaningful and professionally agreed formula that will satisfy future changes, but that will rest on current possibilities. In addition, I would remind you that we are both under the Constitution and under the oath that we have sworn when we have accepted mandates to take care of the common and general good. There is no better way in relatively Croatia is a relatively uneducated population, to do so than to improve education. It must be a manifestation of our concern for the common good, all of us, and I hope that there will also be a positive consensus about it. Therefore, about what there is agreement, colleagues and colleagues, we need to find enough political mind to find a satisfactory and professionally acceptable solution and thus also get enough political will to form a basis for a different education system that will promote this country and its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52265	Thank you. It is next in an individual debate, the distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here after a carefully heard debate from the morning until now, I would like to give full support to these announced amendments of the Constitution which are therefore primarily needed to ensure Croatia's entry into the European Union, and Croatia's entry into the European Union is good for all, which is good in that case and for Croats outside Croatia. On the other hand, my support and all those points that everyone has agreed on, and will go into the package of amendments to the Constitution, so I think of the non-depreciation of crime in conversion and of those issues that are also important and which in my opinion I would say perhaps the question of one and at the end of Croatia's debt towards some time in which unfortunately there was what we don't really want to repeat in Croatia, which is that crime is happening in conversion and privatisation. I also support all provisions relating to the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia because it is simply a democratic gain. Although it is not the subject of today's amendments and changes to the Constitution, the issue of the vote of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia is simply impossible not to address the issue today because today's debate was mainly about this issue. I don't want to answer to anyone here, but I want to actually use these few minutes for the sake of the Croatian public so that the debate so far doesn't really lead our people watching this transmission astray. We are not talking about the right of Croats to vote outside Croatia, so we are not talking about the right of one another separately. We are speaking in general and we are not talking about all Croatians because all Croats outside Croatia cannot vote in the elections for the Parliament and for the President of the Republic of Croatia, but we are talking exclusively about Croatian citizens. So Croatian citizens have the same right with all Croatian citizens no matter where they live. There are 115 countries in the world, and the vast majority are in the European Union that allow their citizens to vote outside the country of origin. Now a completely different question is how will this mechanism be arranged for the exercise of that right. And I completely agree with those who don't think it should be regulated by the Constitution. I already said, for example, this morning. Slovenians settled this with a special law, the Law on Slovenians outside Slovenia, which gave the right to vote to their compatriots outside Slovenia. Some others have solved it the other way. We don't need us here I would say to touch those issues that share us, but we should stick to those issues that connect us and that go for the good of Croatia. And it is not good for Croatia if we share on the amendments to the Constitution, and the only goal of the amendment is Croatia's entry into the European Union, which we consider to be good in itself. So I'm really calling and please let's really go back to ourselves, our own sources, our ends and the burdens of the past that this people have been going through to achieve among other sovereign states. If we go back then we will have much more responsibility and will not ask questions that have nothing to do with the change of the Constitution to join the European Union. Let's say colleagues from the SDP from other opposition parties do not dispute, and that is good, not a question of the right of Croatian citizens to vote outside Croatia, but a slow way to dispute, particularly, the issue of the right to vote of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think in today's debate, it prevailed, unfortunately, without any need. It is incomprehensible if that right is not disputed to ask a question and talk about this issue in a way that the right is denied. So we can't talk about law, but then we can provide all living mechanisms to actually deny it, and we can come to the attention of one of those syntagmas about birth and foxes in terms of that food supply from those bowls that neither of them could eat. You cannot accept access, Croatians have, for example, the right in Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croatian citizens to participate in elections with the Croatian Parliament, but we will limit their access. Well, then it's more correct to say, let's do this right. The only answer, a civilized answer to this question, so if we don't want to harass people outside Croatia, is actually already offered and I don't understand why it was rejected. We live in the 21st century and the voting technology is well known, I would say without trouble and without all these possible disputes and questions. Well, that's a letter vote. It is a mechanism adopted by a number of peoples, it is not clear to me why we are running away from it and for which we do not accept it as one reach at the end of the civilization, technological reach and used by European peoples, therefore the Croatian people can also use it. I repeat, around 115 countries in the world allow their citizens to vote outside their countries of origin. Among them are Italy, and Hungary, and Spain, and Ireland, and Slovenia. Italy has 12 MPs in one home and in the other 6th and everyone can vote at consulates and everyone can vote as a correspondent. It is interesting to mention that France has also made it possible for all its citizens outside France to vote in the elections. However, they did not have representatives elected in the French Parliament or have representatives, but announced that since 2012, they will introduce that right. So, trend, I apologize, but it's really impossible to talk. So, the trend in the European Union is to enable this right rather than to prevent it. with a quote from a text that says one of the most famous experts in international law, the man of our root Mark Jigar. He said literally like this and lives in France. To prohibit or restrict a group of citizens and members of the nation to participate in the vote. So, to make their citizenship difficult, to exclude them from the national Corps and deprive them of their rights. These are discriminatory practices at the heart of public individual freedoms, archaic and should not exist in true democracy. Here, I call upon you all to truly conform to this one European approach and in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52267	Thank you. It's our guest, Daniel Srb. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then it is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think the two phenomena most strongly influenced and marked the establishment of a Croatian state, which is a brutal war and a process of conversion and privatisation. We feel it, we feel it, and we'll feel it long in the future. I fear both will remain permanent scars. And how in the entire debate today, no one has referred to the part which, in this proposal for a decision on the accession of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, referred to the part which, Appendix 31. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the addendum of paragraph 4 which seeks to ensure that there is no obsolescence of war profits and crimes on the process of conversion and privatisation I think that part deserves special attention. And that is why, although I support the whole of this proposal, I especially support it for that part. And why do I support that part? Well, because it is indisputable that many crimes have been committed in the process of conversion and privatisation, because it is undeniable that many crimes are not sanctioned, and that is enough because of old age. It's undeniable that there was also war profiting. It is undeniable that many products were sold to Croatia at triple the price during the war, and some were not paid what was delivered. It is undeniable that money from the collection of money for weapons was used for other purposes and personal purposes, and very often even for participation in the process of conversion and privatisation. I also support this because of the unpublished management contracts that have been spoken of for years. Because of this and because newly roasted tycoons and tycoons fired workers, shut down companies, quit their basic activities, destroyed existing business facilities and built housing on the same land with a company with one employee making enormous profits, and many lost their jobs. I also support it because the way the process of conversion and privatisation in Croatia left 400,000 people out of work. And because it was never explained how banks became owners of tourist facilities, hotel companies and large tourist companies. How banks based their claims on green interest, turning them into business shares and into shares, they became owners in this way. And that's why I support it because it's never been clarified and responsible, they didn't answer what state property they sold as their own, and they got a fee, a purchase price, and they never paid that purchase price back to the state, nor did they answer for it. I also support it because once in the process of conversion and privatisation it was legally established that claims that were not entered into the underlying capital over 60 days, and many companies had never been eligible for those claims more than 60 days after the conversion and privatisation. I also support it because it has never been clarified how many, and most of the banks from state institutions acquired many shares in trading companies for one kuna, not one kuna stock for all shares. And only a few months later, they re-sell to state institutions for tens of millions of kunas or German marks back then. Only one bank in one transaction sold 68m euros to the state-owned institution shares previously acquired for one kuna. I also support it because it has never been clarified how it is possible to capitalise private companies without obtaining ownership of these companies or having claims recorded at all for what was invested in private companies. I also support it because it is never explained how much it has been invested in Pliva, and how some private companies have come out of Pliva, and today they are represented as the most powerful private entrepreneurs who are even trying to buy the rest of Croatia. And because it has never been clarified that the privatised large banks in the Republic of Croatia, how privatised telecommunications, such as Pliva, were privatised hotels and everything else. And despite everything I've said, there are those who say that conversion and privatisation is the best thing that has happened to Croatia since its independence. Yes, for them and their grandchildren. But not for many in Croatia. I hate to say that happiness is not the first word that comes to mind when I think about conversion. There's a lot I can think of other than luck. But in the early '90s, there was doubt either in war or in conversion and privatisation. The patriots decided to go to war, and the others decided to convert and privatize. At the same time, it couldn't have been in two places. But those who took part in it view it differently from those who were at war and who did not participate in it. Which makes sense. Always those concerned with something they see little with subjectivity, look at how to justify their actions and I understand them. The crows were never expected to praise any color other than black. So did those who privatized companies who would otherwise praise that conversion and privatisation. And of these same come such a thesis that they have achieved fantastic positive effects through conversion and privatisation. Well, of course, if I'm saying this too, it's not a sign that I support that regulation that doesn't dictate the market, where there's no private capital and entrepreneurship, but even with conversion and privatisation, we haven't gotten enough degree of development of market relations that today is the main obstacle to curbing economic progress. And actually very often there is an insult from those who are the main creators. They say everyone who thinks differently and who doesn't think like they do, as they say literally, fools and ignorants. I understand them, I understand they're humming because everyone who's in the den is usually grumbling. But this will be a chance not to close our eyes to the past with these changes. To enable the disclosure of any crimes committed by war profit and crime in the process of conversion and privatisation. But this is also a chance to satisfactory all the victims of conversion and privatisation and that war profiting. This is also of paramount importance for the future of the Croatian state because whoever closes his eyes over the past sees no good today, and he will remain blind in the future. Therefore, I support this proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52269	Thank you. We have one replica, it's the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52270	Dear colleague Marić, I am indeed sharing almost all the arguments of your nobles which you have stated for which reasons you will support the Decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution. And you're right about one of Croatia's biggest halls that we still pay today with an extremely high price of crime in conversion and privatisation. However, I express the fear, fear, reserve that, by assembling the provision in the Constitution that these crimes do not go out of date, we will not solve anything at all. Because such a provision of the Constitution will need to be amended by 10 laws of the Criminal Procedure Act, the State Attorney's Office, the USKOK and that I do not now list, because there will be no special retroactive investigations in the field of conversion, i.e. theft and robbery in privatisation. Maybe someone accidentally recklessly, incompetent, naive to enter the network and find something from that time on. And the other reason for my fear is, or infidelity, that the vast majority of them, fellow Maric, who have decided to defend one and the other privatisation, are also formally not in power and power, but are in positions in Croatia where they have such a strong influence on political decision that for the operational implementation of such constitutional provisions and the return of hope to victims and conversion will be virtually nothing. They're right through that crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52271	Bring the end, the time. Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52272	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar is not as afraid as you are of me. I hope so, but I never prejudge or predict. I am merely expressing the joy that is being created, the political framework will be created, so the political will exists, and in other institutions it is how much it will be done in action. Those who want to do something have ways of doing it. Those who don't want will always find an excuse not to. So political will exists with this idea, and that is a reflection of political will. And it's up to the independent institutions to do their part of the job. I'm not up for it, nor can there be a solution, to help the poor by destroying the rich. No, there is no way to help the poor, but those who have committed crimes should be punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52273	Thank you. We are moving on with an individual debate, and it is up to the distinguished representative, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First thing in principle. It seems to me that everyone here in the assembly would agree that the Constitution is a universal legal act. Therefore, the universal law in which the creation and adoption must take part and must enable them to participate both citizens and state and social institutions. It's an act that designs, anti-cicipes the construction of a legal order in the next 10 years at least. And it applies to all legal entities, whether it's natural persons, citizens, people and economic and other entities. It is therefore not good to speed up or pressure the adoption of this legal act under the exception of anything. Another thing I want to say, and to correct some of today's participants who, in a political sense, incorrectly planted and imputed that the SDP advocates the abolition of the 11th electoral unit or not to vote or not to vote citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live or reside outside the Republic of Croatia, it is simply a political prank. Thirdly, the process of making changes or the novelty of this Constitution was directed by the ruling. And it's constantly manipulated with the time and volume of changes in the Constitution. In order for the public to conclude on its own, a number of facts should be provided. The ruling self-initiative, in good spirit, respecting the meaning of the Constitution and knowing for the purposes of amending the Constitution, respecting the importance of changing the constitution, launched the initiative in February 2008, and the Vice President-in-Office of the Constitution sent a message to social and legal institutions in the Republic of Croatia and others, both individuals and citizens and associations to submit an initiative to change and amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Then HDZ thought that we would quickly, or that we would slowly move to change the Constitution in the interest of all citizens. However, the circumstances which were then euthanized by the initiative, died, killed for a whole year, in February 2009, to abandon the Parliament as legitimate representatives of citizens, and invited the Constitution to participate and create a change of the Constitution, neglect and go to the government, which is still legitimate, but it is unilateral because the government is always unilateral regardless of the coalition and there they went to create a change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. There they went to create a change a year after they started. And then again the problem arises and now we could speculate not responding to the ruling, re-eutanizing work and the government's group, by dying, to decide at the end of 2009 to speed up changes to the Constitution and again from the government's cancer. At that time, MPs legitimately try to protect those citizens and the interests they represent, and fully constitutionally legal and evenly come with their initiative to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Then by restoring what is happening today, say some of the two proposals come equally to the Parliament, which was the purpose of these proposals, why we put them in debate in the Croatian Parliament, in front of the Croatian public that in the end, it was not, or the desire to negotiate politically, therefore, it is known who has a majority in the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the political system, which the changes should bring to change the Constitution. That the situation is even more manipulative, the working group that was founded by this body, the Croatian Parliament, from the representatives of the citizens, as parity, because we have two proposals that have the same value constitutionally and politically, did not finish the job, did not address this Parliament and said we cannot go on, we are looking for Parliament's instructions. But once again, according to the political power and political will of the rulings, we will no longer debate because we are no longer being discussed, we are going with the proposal of the Constitution Committee, and by revote they come with a proposal for constitutional change, these are facts. However, it should be noted for the sake of the Croatian public that in the parity working group for the institutes for which they were interested in ruling the requested solution, the working group formed several times under the group that the institutes that were disputed to come to some compromise and that subgroup returned to the working group of the Croatian Parliament. So with the definition of additional voting rights, the public needs to know, so the task force said, okay, we can't define that here, it would be good to consult the Prime Minister and the coalition partner, so the task force said ok the coalition partner from the SDSS and the Prime Minister will find a solution for the additional vote of the national minorities. For the issue of old age, we also had different positions for war profit, and the task force said that the president of the task force and the SDP representative would find a formula that would satisfy the working group and reach consensus. Also, with Article 65, which is unusually important for the SDP, for the SDP policy, the view of the development of Croatia is unusually important, which is to ensure education on the burden of society until the first occupation. So this issue is delegated to the Committee on Education and Science. So when it was wanted and when there was a will to find a compromise and find a solution then it was done. As changes in the Government's proposal or even ideas within the working group have come to the proposal that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia may vote in a referendum on accession to the European Union but those living in the Republic of Croatia decide, the question is what is the question of Article 45. The reaction to this was that this member, i.e. the way elections have been held so far, creates doubts about regularity, creates divisions amongst the Croatian national being, creates divisions among the electoral body, raises doubts about regularity, raises questions about how to resolve this both with the Constitution and the laws. So it was an initiative to vote by letter, to get rid of the interstate agreement, not even from the opposition, that the problem was there that there was also a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend the House Act. It is all part of resolving the issue in order to continue, with a simple dictionary told to poison relations in the Croatian electoral body. What does the opposition want now? It asks for a solution in the name of the future that will be able to satisfy that the process of the Croatian institution and the Croatian state can monitor and control that there is no doubt about the correctness, truthfulness and honesty of the elections made.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52275	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52276	It is a minimum requirement that every smart man in Croatia will support. We're not looking for anything that could benefit any particular wants or strangers. I'll bring the end. I'm saying one more thing. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should address a very important issue, and this is a question of the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Government when Croatia is in the European Union. Some think it's settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52278	I don't think that's settled either. In other words, it is not true that only one issue is disputed among participants who should and should agree to the constitution, several issues have not been resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52279	Thank you very much. And you could've done it once, and you're picking up. First of all, we have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is the representative Leko incorrectly said that it was a prank that someone was trying to lift the right to vote, to be precise to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia outside of Croatia or who do not have a residence in the territory of Croatia. It's simply incorrect. Because here I am reading and I have in my hand a proposal for a group of 52 MPs, of which about 85% of the SDPs who say they propose to add words in the Republic of Croatia at the end of the 45th, and item 2 is deleted, which means that the amended article would remain that Croatian citizens have a general equal voting right of 18 years of age and that they hold it by direct elections, a secret vote in the Republic of Croatia. Paragraph 2 which now speaks in the Constitution about any way of voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52281	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52282	I would have deleted that proposal, so I read the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52283	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52284	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague corrects what I didn't say, even states what I said to interpret him wrong. In the Republic of Croatia, all that the Republic of Croatia knows is all that is known by a colleague, these really are the representations of the diplomatic and consular Republic of Croatia. She can't manipulate to like it. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52285	Thank you very much. You didn't say which article was injured, so that turned out to be tricky. And it's no violation of the Rules of Procedure. And now we have another replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52286	A fellow Leko in this debate, among other things, and about what the Committee on the Constitution missed at the plenary session, and what he put aside, there was an argument, of course, that the package that had first and foremost to do with joining the European Union and the preconditions had been missed. Later we heard there were exceptions. So we actually got an argument that we can do this anyway, but only when it's directed by the HDZ. I will remind myself that there are 6 questions from the initiative and from the Government or a group of MPs on which the working group has fully agreed and agreed therefore even the text of constitutional articles which have been omitted from this proposal. So, 6 very specific issues, two related to Armed Forces, Public Records, the adoption of a state budget, the election of judges of the Constitutional Court and the vote of minorities. Therefore, these 6 issues, which were by no means controversial between either the two proposings or among the working group members, were deliberately left out. The argument that only those articles concerning the European Union are going on in this story is not standing and we have already heard that, because it is simply two elements that have nothing to do with it. So when it's Wednesday that HDZ interprets it then it can be that argument used, and when we say it, it's no longer worth it. That's not correct. And I'm asking you both as a member of the board and as a member of the task force how you look at that problem that six things we totally agree on don't even see here in these proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52287	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you're a part of the task force as much as I am. The atmosphere you saw, the result you know because it's here. Our desire is to seek inexhaustible strength to reach consensus. It's an interest not only on the left, but on the right and all. The second thing I want to say is manipulation is that it will not adopt the Constitution when it foresees it or wants the ruling to stop entering the European Union. We all know that Minister Shimonovic said at the cabinet's meeting that for the closure of chapters 23, it is not the cause in the legal system or in the judiciary, but in politics and politics. And it remains in politics, in the political sphere. Therefore, it is a pretext for the ruling, an excuse to press for amending the Constitution at their request, not for the European Union to find a solution that suits all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52289	I have to say this because of the correction and the violation of the Rules of Procedure that the rectification of the replica was something that you didn't say at all, and you're replicating a replica that didn't exist. But good. We're moving on with an individual discussion. One would have read by Shemso Tankovic neither, then one. He's not losing his right to debate. And that's why he has the right to debate on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. A few explanations on the issues presented by my fellow respected representative, Josip Leco, in his discussion. If we are already going back to the genealogy of constitutional changes that he has returned to and reminded MP Leko with one thesis, which is actually going through his entire performance that selectively according to some criteria is exclusively in line with the interests of the ruling, that the whole constitutional change and process is taking place, that certain constitutional changes towards the moods in this time series are about two years towards the political interests of the ruling, and not the interests of society as a whole should be said a few things. When in early 2008 it was very mature and for a time that it would open wide the door to open accession negotiations, the opening of chapters, when it was very convenient then all attention focused on the change of the Constitution to ensure the necessary lower amount of votes given for the referendum. Therefore, it was all focused on the issue of amendments to the Constitution for Article 141(4), as one very, very difficult majority for the validity of the referendum and for the success of the referendum is required in this article. As part of this, I called on all political parties, all of them, the whole public to propose their proposals and their view of possible constitutional changes, as well as the political order of the ruling coalition. A number of proposals have come in writing at the Committee on the Constitution's meeting to present these ideas and initiatives. Many who proposed these initiatives and ideas and proposed them orally and then came to the conclusion that the members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system were invited to propose constitutional law experts who would be set up in one working group on their call, which would make one draft constitutional changes taking into account all the initiatives that were given. On several occasions, as chairman of that committee, I called on all members of the Committee on the Constitution and all parties who, on the part of the Committee on the Constitution to propose to me one of the experts to form a working group that would explain all possible proposals and initiatives and translate them into some draft constitutional changes, into some template. Despite multiple calls, none of the parties to the position or parties to the opposition proposed anyone. And that initiative was then and then further work on constitutional change died. By the way, something else happened, that the ideas that were being presented to the public about the change of the constitutional powers of the President of the Republic had turned into that a good part of the political public and the media had suddenly updated and channelled and put it into focus, as if HDZ now, with these constitutional changes, wants to take down the powers of the current President of the Republic of Stjepan Mesic and therefore wants to cut his powers and turn it into a figurine. It was so much an ominous and malignant platform that began, which began to impregnate the entire public. On the other hand, no one suggested anyone in that task force. And the work died. It came in 2009 when it was likely that there was a chance that a faster pace would begin to open certain chapters and even these negotiations. It was expected to take off with Slovenia and then the government established a working group. All experts, professors of constitutional law from all over Croatia, from the Office of Presidents, from the main negotiating headquarters, the Constitutional Court, are working on making a proposal for a change to the Constitution concerning Croatia's accession to the European Union. That's what this task force does. It's an expert task force, and the boss was me, but that operational chief who was the boss... He was a professor at the Rodin Constitutional Law Department and they put together, so they give a ton of these amendments to the Constitution concerning the accession of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is handed over to the government and the government on this basis, on this basis the template goes with a proposal for a change of constitution. In accordance with the Constitution, the Government is proposing and going to change the Constitution. Then part of the opposition says you won't do it yourself. You must transfer the weight in the Assembly and there should be a nuke from where activities will take place where consensus will be sought around the Constitution. You can't do it yourself, the government can't do it alone. Although the government can, although the government is authorized under the Constitution as is authorised and one-fifth of MPs to launch initiatives to change the constitution. And then we in the House are waiting on the basis of a political agreement to put your opposition to the Constitution's amendment proposal on the table, we are also discussing it to the Committee on the Constitution and the Parliament, and then we are setting up this parity working group on which we are trying to find a joint proposal to amend the Constitution. We have come, now I have to finish, so in the final review, I will look back at the part why and how, for what reasons, what happened, what happened after work, during work and after the completion of work, and the parity working group to provide an explanation that is important as the key to understanding and the current problems that have arisen. But I'm going to say something about that in the final word. But just in the end, what I want to say to my colleague, Lek, is why in 2008, there was no establishment of this working group that would draft the Constitution on the basis of all initiatives lies equally on all sides of this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52291	Thank you. And the last individual debate announced, the distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52292	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would say in my introduction that I agree with all parliamentary representatives and representatives of clubs who, through today's debate, spoke of the importance of the Constitution, of privilege, if I may say so, of a particular call or of a representative that during their term of office, I can decide on the Constitution and constitutional changes. I do, therefore, estimate myself that the most important legal act in the Republic of Croatia is to participate in this debate and therefore the debate on the adoption of the Constitution then requires a toleranceal debate because both constitutional changes are practically neither possible nor can they be reached unless there is an agreement, an agreement by all important Croatian political parties. When I applied for the debate, I was convinced that on this very trail and today's debate we would complete and that we would talk about all the important, crucial things that these constitutional changes entail, which would allow Croatia to complete negotiations for full membership in the EU, but on the other hand no less important which constitutional changes would legitimise Croatia as a state, a rule of law, in which the judiciary would be completely independent, in which the full independence of the CNB, the State Office for Audit, would be allowed. So, and all the major constitutional changes that have been made to this decision to initiate the amendments to the Constitution and to be drawn up. But the whole debate, or almost, to be precise, most of the debate comes down to the question of art. 45. A constitution that speaks of the right to vote Croatian citizens outside the country. I must say that this morning at the beginning of the session itself, the government was showing itself about it in a way that the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia said two important things. And that is, firstly, that because of the urgency of the process and the process of negotiations on Croatia's accession to full EU membership it is necessary to bring the Constitution now into this scope of constitutional changes proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And on the other hand that the agreement, a compromise on all other issues and disputes arising from the agreement or attempt of the agreement over 2 years since the amendments to the Constitution can also be resolved through this debate or subsequent amendment of the Constitution. In addition, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure said in paragraph 2 of the proposal for a decision where it was said that it was in accordance with the provisions of the Article. Article 57(1), point (b) of the first subparagraph The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System will, on the basis of the proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia referred to in point 1 of this Decision and what is now very important, the debates which have been held in the Croatian Parliament, bring forward a proposal for the establishment of a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In this way both the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system say that the door is open when it comes to full consensus on the adoption of constitutional changes. And from the speech of the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, we heard and no doubt that an agreement was reached to the greatest extent between the government's proposal or the majority proposal in the Croatian Parliament and the proposal of 52 parliamentary deputies who clearly submitted their proposal for constitutional changes to the Constitution. Therefore, I cannot agree with Mr Lek when he says this proposal, which was euthanised by a large number of constitutional changes proposed by a group of 52 parliamentary deputies. That's why I believe that if we're already talking about the need for an agreement on an article. 45th, then, to be perfectly clear and completely honest. So, Art. 45th is prescribed the right to vote by all Croatian citizens, the right to vote by Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia. As the team article does not describe in more detail either the way or the model of the election for all Croatian citizens living in the Republic of Croatia, I do not see why through these constitutional changes we would now insist on determining the model, the way Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia vote. The more through this constitutional change, the more we introduce the additional right to vote through these constitutional changes, the model of this additional voting right, or the model of exercising the additional voting right, but when it comes to the electoral right to vote and the electoral right to vote by Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia, then it is proposed that through these constitutional changes, we resolve this model relating to the right to vote by Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia. This right must be resolved and can be resolved by the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and should not be if we are aware that otherwise we cannot disable or modify the model of vote of citizens outside the state, resolve the Constitution. I therefore assess that at this point the opposition parties are aware, and fully aware that they are aware that this proposal they propose can be resolved by law, however, this law is passed by a half-way majority of all MPs, trying to make it through the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution that the Republic of Croatia needs to be entered into the full membership of the European Union, in a certain way to get through the amendments to the Constitution where there is a brake, there is a commitment, there is ultimately a constitutional category that these constitutional changes cannot be adopted without the consent of all parties in the Parliament. Therefore, I think it is a crucial moment when we talk about who and how the blackmail method tries to vote constitutional changes in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that this proposal for constitutional changes can be jointly supported and the way and resolution of the vote of Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia can be dealt with by a special law, as has been decided for all other Croatian citizens. Therefore, I will certainly support this draft law, constitutional amendments, and I agree that the talks continue and, in the context of these constitutional changes, agreements concerning the right to vote of Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia but this cannot be a condition for us to make such constitutional changes. Therefore, it is in this sense that the Government's proposal not to resolve the Constitution in these possible amendments, but, if possible, the Law on the Selection of Representatives, by that very act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52293	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, I listened very carefully, you have agreed several times to continue the talks in order to reach an agreement. I must say, I'm surprised to find such a request because there's a discrepancy in the proposal. You say I advocate continuing the arrangements, negotiations to reach consensus and accept constitutional changes, and I suggest that the government's proposal be accepted. The honesty of your efforts cannot be on the political power of the parliamentary majority, but on the acceptance of amendments proposed by the parliamentary minority so that we can put the change equally into agreements. And you as a public, as I urge you to talk, but accept the government's position, it's simply a disrepair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52295	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Then, Mr. Leco, I'm in favour of continuing the discussions on the definition of that model. However, we all know that I didn't have time in 10 minutes to say what I can now answer. And the fact that through the talks on the exercise of the right to vote of Croatian citizens there were more proposals. One of them is a correspondence vote as a possibility, another proposal was the determination of quotas, therefore, remains and I advocate, remains the possibility that through the debate on constitutional changes, or which I think is better and for what I stand for, and I have mentioned it several times, so that this model, as well as in what way, in the world of Croats living outside Croatia can be resolved by law and not by the Constitution. Why? Because no one in the Croatian Parliament and all Croatian citizens guarantees that such election laws will welcome another 10 future elections for MPs. Then shall we approach that right of the vote differently? If, for example, the 11th electoral unit is not organised in this way. I think we should think about it, I think the amendments to the Constitution, change whenever we change if we change the electoral law in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52297	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52298	As one of the more powerful arguments of support for this proposal, you said that the Constitutional Committee will prepare a draft draft amendments to the Constitution on the basis of the debate. What it looks like in practice, I'll illustrate to you the following. You were talking about wanting a deal, so you mentioned blackmail, which is a little contradictory doesn't matter. I repeat three times in my debate that I believe that the essence of the change in the Constitution is such that citizens have to decide on it in a referendum. I heard someone say today, so whatever you want, we're elected representatives from the people, so we're right, that's what the citizens gave us, to change the Constitution, but when those citizens were in the elections, they knew some people might not know, that in Article 86. The Constitution states that the Croatian Parliament on the amendment of the Constitution can call a referendum. And the citizens of this country are blackmailing that when there is no agreement in Parliament, and the threat of not obtaining the agreement of 102 votes to change the Constitution, and Europe is the only reason why we need to change it, you keep saying, that then those who have blamed this situation in Parliament will give the word to the citizens, and we have exactly that situation. You claim that Europe is the reason for the amendments to the Constitution, there is no agreement because the opposition claims that you failed to comply with most of their demands, you seek consensus and you reject any thought of calling a referendum and you are not in favour of agreement. And who? You need to deal with the citizens now because the other side is telling you that the deal won't be made. That's what this is about. Therefore, if you really believe that the debate will affect the content of constitutional changes, then say in the motion for a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52299	Thank you. Time's up. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Lesar, I quoted point 2 of the decision on the accession of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and it says what is expected and what can be expected from the debate itself. It is not true, and I have never said or thought that we are changing the Constitution just because of the entry into the European Union that is one of the important reasons, but I have said that such a change in the Constitution has legitimateized us as a state of rule of law, independence of the judiciary and all that I have just said. As for the referendum, I think the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has already spoken to you today. So, the constitutional obligation is to bring constitutional changes to the Assembly and that responsibility is given to us to the parliamentary deputies. And as for the referendum, it's true. There will be a referendum exactly and in the largest part about what we will do with these constitutional changes if we adopt them in this context... and it is our obligation to declare in the referendum our Croatian citizens what we will hope for and I am sure of these constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52301	Thank you. It is the third replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I congratulate my colleague Bačić on your open, rational and clear speech, and I am encouraged to respond or add that the interest of Croatians is above all good in Croatia. So what's good for Croatia is the interest of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to open the question of how Croats vote outside the Republic of Croatia, then let us be sure that we can all be absolutely open the issue. But let's not lie, let's not deceive ourselves. So the opposition, the opposition when the right says it allows, and then everything does to deny it is at least pardon but hypocritical. On the other hand, I heard the allegations here this morning that this question is being challenged because there are some manipulations, some frauds. So if it's so embarrassing for all of us. However, if there were no such fraud in either the last presidential or parliamentary elections and if the Election Commission had no such case, so what we are insinuating is what we are lying about. After all, we can't cheat anymore, thank God that's the way it is and that someone can't. If it is declared on one side, it cannot vote on the other side, etc. So let's stay away from that. On the other hand, we have a European model, and the European model is to give people the right to vote, and the European model is to give them a letter vote. So because we don't trust ourselves, we don't live in the last century. Why don't we use these methods and give people a normal approach? If we enable them to do so, be assured that they will also vote for those who allow them no matter who they are, and they will not experience them for others. So let's not share.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52303	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the government, distinguished Ivan Shimonovic, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52304	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. At the beginning of today's debate, I highlighted two dimensions. One dimension is urgency, and the other is a need for agreement. As for the urgency of adopting constitutional changes, they say in favour of both technical and political reasons. As for technical reasons, without constitutional changes, and without the adoption of some laws that constitutional changes presuppose us to Croatia's accession to the European Union. As far as the political dimension is concerned, we are at a time when negotiations are being broken and if Croatia will end negotiations by the end of this year or not. The adoption of constitutional changes sends a clear message of Croatia's readiness and maturity that, with compromises, it manages to realise its key foreign-political objectives. This also leads me to another fundamental thesis, which is the need to achieve consensus. Just as speed means a message to the European Union on the maturity of Croatia, the same consensus in achieving constitutional changes sends the same message. Listening to today's discussions with attention, I find that all of them gave rise to concern and concern for Croatian national interests. And I am quite sure that respected MPs and MPs will take the same care and understanding for the wider picture into account in their efforts to reach agreement on constitutional changes. Once again, I would just like to mention, please do everything you can to achieve the agreement as soon as possible, as this strengthens the negotiating position of the Government in relation to the European Union or the possibility of a timely conclusion of negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52305	Thank you. And a final word on behalf of the motionary, distinguished Vice-President of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am honored to be able to address this House once again and try in some way to present a final position right now after this debate of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which, according to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, is appropriate to prepare proposals for appropriate acts relating to the amendments to the Constitution. Now I would immediately return to that part of the debate that I started but I had to break up in the debate or controversy with my colleague Vice-President of the Committee, Mr. Lek, which was happening with the explained things about what happened after our parity task force of 10 of us who my colleague Mimica and I were some co-chairs or co-ordinators when she started her work and when she had 7 sessions and several subsessions. So we went where no proposals or joint proposals were agreed, the same proposals from the government's proposal to change the Constitution and from the proposal of a group of MPs, article by article. And then after 6 or 7 sessions of that working group, we came up with a series of solutions that we proposed, which we've been finely systematized and established where the proposals differ, where they're identical, and where there's no proposal for one, and where there's no proposal for the other. And we are really in this work that was in front of the whole public, but clearly journalists and the media were only interested in some other details that were out of the key and main strategic amendments so that very little of it was published in the media apart from the heels of some. We've solved a series of dilemmas. Moreover, we found certain formulations and certain solutions that were different both in the government's proposal and those that were in the proposal of a group of MPs. We have delegated certain topics, the most complicated topics such as one on the resolution of the non-depreciation of the criminal part prescribed by law during the Homeland War, aggression in Croatia, peaceful reintegration, the threat of the Republic of Croatia in conversion and privatisation and war profiting. It was a proposal from a group of MPs. He was initiated by Ivo Josipovic even earlier when he was a parliamentary representative. And my colleague Leco and I have found in a series of discussions between our mutuals in four eyes we have found this solution that the promoters have accepted. We've found a number of other solutions. We found solutions that were related to the crossing of the Armed Forces across the border of Croatia, the need for most, the interpretation of the President of the Republic, the Government, the Parliament. All of us found solutions that were different from those that were both in the government's proposal and in the proposal of a group of MPs. And then we realized in the end that we couldn't, and we only solved with consensus that we didn't come to an agreement on some solutions. It was one thing to do with the amendment of Article 65. The constitution where a working group was also working, where within that working group they were delegated as its representatives were also Mr Leko and Mrs Lugaric, and this was passed on to the committee for the relevant committee where the joint proposal was sought. Because the government had a proposal to amend Article 65. The proposer and groups of MPs had their proposal, a proposal aimed at ensuring free education until the first call. On this meaningful part, the Government had a different formula to ensure a mandatory and free general education and not in this trace, because if it is being blackmailed that the Constitution guarantees the right and duty to the state to pay for education until the first call, then it is related to the budget, etc. So there was, there was no way to find a solution and there was no way to find a solution to the key part, and that was the article of the 45th Amendment of the Constitution. You see, in its proposal to amend the Constitution, that is, a group of MPs proposed the following, I quote from the reasoning. "The addition of this article provides for Croatian citizens to exercise their general and equal voting right in the elections held in the Republic of Croatia. This abolishs the vote at special polling stations abroad. The right to vote remains for all Croatian citizens, but all Croatian citizens residing abroad exercise that right in the election seats in the Republic of Croatia." This is explained by the proposal of a group of representatives to amend the Constitution in accordance with Article 8 of the amendment proposal. And there it is, we on the working group have delegated it to specifically address this problem at the level of the Prime Minister, the party's president, so on behalf of the ruling coalition together with the presidents of the three SDP parties, the HNS and IDS. And after that, several meetings were held in the government building with the presidents of these designated parties of position and opposition and theirs, with them we were certainly several more at the SDP, was a colleague of Milanovic, was a colleague of Mimica, a colleague of Leko, a colleague of Ingrid, was a colleague of Richembergh if I am not wrong with Mr. Cacic, Mrs. Pusic, of the IDS was. They were very rare that it was hard to remember them. And there were a few of us from HDZ. And now we've discussed how to resolve that question. It was easy to come up with questions about the referendum. There we have already agreed in the working group that the referendum, for the success of the referendum, is sufficient for the majority of those who approach the referendum regardless of the number that approaches and to extend it to the national referendum, the one from Art. 86th on all issues and to introduce the Institute of Consultative Referendum. Only in these discussions were the dilemmas and differences on the number of voters needed to call the referendum. Now it's 10%, it's really very hard to collect, it's 430, 450 thousand voters to call a referendum. And there were different suggestions for it to be about 3%, about 5%. Some have advocated to remain an existing state, and so when I say what we have concluded in the end that we did not agree on it, about the referendum, we did not agree on just that it remained open whether a number or a percentage would be needed to call the referendum 10% as in the positive constitutional text or 3% or 5%? And it started, but the key debate was, everything else was, and about art. In 65, we've all held on to it, it's going to be easy to solve by one convenient formula to keep everyone satisfied, but there's only one key question left, and so is the article. In the 15th century, 3rd century, which means that MPs, that national minorities have, in addition to general, the right to vote, can also have a special electoral right, so-called Colloquial double right to vote. Here we have already agreed at the position of opposition and rulings that this issue is not resolved by the amendment of the Constitution but by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and by the Consequential Law. I see today that you are already in your amendment to the proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution, these 3 clubs of SDP, HNS and IDS dropped an article. Article 15(3) I assume that you agreed to keep it in the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities to deal with it there because it is not in the proposal of the Committee, there is no proposal of the Government, no change. 15, and you're not proposing it specifically. I hope not, I didn't warn you that you dropped it. I assume you've rationally left it to be settled by constitutional law. And now all sorts of ideas have come up, and now there's been all sorts of ideas about how to get out of it on the one hand, the government didn't propose any change of art. 45. The constitution, which was left to remain an existing norm that said the law could also determine where and how Croatian citizens who have residence abroad would vote. And so it was the election laws of '99. Parliament's elections under the Election Law were also held in 2000 and 2003 and 2007. At that time, there was already one change in direction where some of those who were from a group of MPs, who were as I put it firmly initially, at the hard starting position to dodicate, as it was written in the context of the proposal for a change of the Constitution, to do away with the right of Croatian citizens to vote only at polling stations outside Croatia, and now they have broken through and launched the thesis that this could be extended to polling stations, but in embassies and consulates. Because it is considered Croatia's territory, too. So there has already been one retardation or one particular explanation. Let us also accept that it was one explanation that it was thought that the polling stations in the embassies and consulates should be held that they are the polling stations on Croatia's territory and in Croatia's territory. We couldn't agree on those discussions. It was one idea, the first one to come, which is to settle the double citizenship contracts, to regulate dual citizenship with an important second idea that was behind that basic idea, which is to resolve it with those contracts in a way that those citizens who have double, people who have dual citizenship vote there and for those bodies, state bodies, where they have a residence. That idea, it wasn't an idea, I brought it up as an idea, that idea came from one of the other expert legal circles. I gave that idea at that meeting, you were a colleague of Leco's, a colleague of Mimica's, too, there, and we said with that idea let's go to our coalition partners to see, to listen to what they think of that idea. When we discussed it with them then we came to the realization that there are a number of very difficult, almost impossible conditions, that this idea is realised in practice because it was only enough that one or two or three countries that are crucial and important to refuse to conclude such citizenship contracts, and that was particularly, it was burdensome whether such contracts were made with both BiH and Serbia. So if such a contract didn't work out, it would be lame legal transactions, incomplete. And so we said we couldn't do it, that the idea couldn't be realized. Then we went out with the idea of additional voting rights. Although there is an idea, we have a growing one in many European countries, the lettering right to vote is realized that in the presidential parliamentary elections, as well as in the referendum, this idea is unfortunately welcomed by the main opposition party and its president, especially with one explanation that we are not a nation that is at such a level of cultural and social development, so that this institute of correspondence would change, because that we are prone to malfeasance, fraud and that it is a dominant one feature, which was a very unpleasant illustration for it, but that Alimino refused to discuss it at all. I was hurt badly by some representatives who left the hall because they wouldn't listen to it, that they couldn't see it, that they couldn't listen, one of them pulled the other one out of the debate hall. In vain, the Prime Minister urged them to show at least a little respect for someone else's opinion and other people's position, but that was rejected. After that, the idea came back from the line of opposition on the fixed quota. To consider a fixed quota, which means that now the application of a non-fixed quota for the 11th constituency unit, and according to that non-fixed quota were in the two previous parliamentary elections in 2003 and in 2. if I am not mistaken four MPs were elected, the truth was chosen from one political option, from the party. And now there's been a proposal, let's say, a fixed quota, now we've started to discuss within the ruling coalition, which is a fixed quota, and then the president of HNS is Mrs Pusic, and then I don't know whether the president or not she said she could be a fixed quota anymore, but it could be 1 or 2. So we said one or two. We clearly conveyed this idea in 1 or 2 to our coalition partners who said thank you very much for such an offer, and there was still some contacts in so-called. The silent diplomacy between the bosses or the chiefs or the party heads and one and the other options to try to find out about that article in 45th, and there was no longer any almost pathetic position we all dug in in either position and there was nothing. After that, the SDP president suddenly went out at a press conference and said that HDZ had stopped discussions on constitutional changes and that it would be responsible if constitutional changes did not occur and constitutional changes were a prerequisite for the conclusion of the negotiations and negotiations were a prerequisite for Croatia's entry into the European Union and that the HDZ and the ruling coalition would therefore be responsible for why the change of the Constitution did not take place. So we at the press conference said, wait a minute, we're not responsible, we're stopped because we're both dug up we can't go back, we won't be responsible, we'll all be responsible together if there isn't a change of constitution, but we can't be responsible for accepting 100% of everything that's accepted from one side and by accepting 100% that we accept the willingness to change the Constitution, we're all responsible says Peter Shegedin, we're all responsible but we're not like in... the farm, we're all responsible just some more responsible. And after that, we had a working group where we should have just found out, on February 15th, I call on that task force and I say: I could conclude that a very high degree of agreement has been reached on the fact that there is no agreement on these four solutions, and therefore I propose the following conclusion: the working group on the draft amendment proposal for the Republic of Croatia did not reach an agreement on the establishment of a joint draft amendment of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution on Article 45, which is correct. With regard to Article 15, which is the same because it remained in the air to propose a group of opposition deputies, I see today that through these amendments it has been removed from the agenda, unless it is a mistake, Articles 141(4) and 86 of the referendum. Because we did not agree only on the part related to the referendum relating to the percentage of voters needed to call the referendum and Article 65. The constitution because the other two formulations were one of yours, one of them remained from the government, and they couldn't move either one of them. And so, we agreed that we didn't agree on these four solutions, but when you look at it numerically, it's actually about 5, and if the referendum is 4, 86 and 141, then there's a total of four. This is why we did not, we agreed on what we did not agree on, after which we were called to block constitutional changes, we responded, the Prime Minister on behalf of the ruling coalition announced on the day before the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution that we only want constitutional changes in that section relating to the introduction of national minorities other than those already found in the original foundations other than those for the European Union, and under the European Union we also mean what is related to the referendum and what is relevant behind 86 referendums. And what we have explicitly held is that it is about the accession of the European Union, and in connection with Chapter 23. – The judiciary and fundamental rights to combat corruption and organised crime, which is that constitutional and legal grounds are given to combat organised crime and corruption, so to avoid the ageing of war crimes, crimes in the process of conversion and privatisation in a certain time frame. And that a constitutional foundation is given to take away any benefit that has been achieved by the execution of these crimes to lose any hope that they will ever retain, even when they are 150 years old, that they will retain the fruits of their criminal work. This is what we wanted by constitutional basis, and there we were in agreement with the SDP and with its original proposal, which is the original of President Josipovic, on which he was largely based his election campaign on new justice and was given what was largely due to the election and that part of his campaign, that he was elected President of the Republic. So that's where we agreed to fellow Richemberg, that's exactly what we agreed to. We didn't select anything. This therefore applies exclusively to the accession of the European Union to the opening and closing of certain chapters and to the rapid entry into and accession of Croatia to the European Union. The exception is only this one, which is the introduction into the original foundations of all national minorities. Now and on the Committee on the Constitution in line with this position of the ruling coalition and the government simply discussed and voted we are going towards those constitutional changes for which there is a consensus. And indeed, when you look at these constitutional changes that are in the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution that the Government has accepted as its own when you see that there is exactly what the full consensus has been reached about and only one part that needs to be particularly addressed, and that is about most of it necessary for the referendum to be called. This would be resolved in a further discussion and would be resolved by establishing a draft proposal for a Constitution in the Committee on the Constitution. Therefore, I strongly suggest that you accept your colleagues and colleagues this proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution, and as regards these amendments that you have issued that I have just seen, we will still be manifested. Although these amendments are a good part and those who have already been where all the solutions have been harmonised. There are now some new ones about Article 38 that are old and that will be further discussed by the committee's proposer along with the ruling coalition and will then be evident when we vote on these amendments on Friday as well as on the amendment of representatives of Lesar who propose that the amendments to the Constitution be adopted in a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52307	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52308	The esteemed colleague, Shakespeare, was not exactly unable to find a solution to the statement of Article 65. The Constitution, since the delegated working subgroup you even mentioned in your presentation, has come up with a consensus solution which unfortunately has been rejected by one person. you who, by the way, have not even forwarded this consensual solution to this parity group which has decided on changes to the Constitution. Of course, these facts do not change anything about things that actually there is a general consensus of all parties and the public that should be amended Article 65. The Constitution in terms of extending the duration of compulsory education, which is not only for the public, but also for us in the SDP, one of the key policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52309	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52310	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament and President Shakespeare said he's having sex with me. That's not true and it's just not possible. He's practicing the same model of the constitution as he's doing with me. He's talking, and I have to keep my mouth shut, and I don't have any business opportunities to do business with him. So that's really impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52311	But please, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote if he's speaking, and you have to keep your mouth shut. We've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52312	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. I ask the representative of Mr. Zoran Milanovic's proposed club to take his word because he asked for a break on behalf of the club. Here you go. And if they could hear you better, maybe it would be nice if you came right here. Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52313	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We will and you will decide to ask to vote on the rejected part of the amendment. One more time. So there are procedures for amending the Croatian Constitution. The decision proposed by the Constitution Committee, which today should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament, contains the essential framework and defines the articles discussed. It doesn't define their final content. We insist, seek, propose and vote accordingly today to fully all proposals enter, including Article 45, which should be agreed for the first time in the 20 years of Croatia by a compromise, consensually, reasonablely for a longer number of years as it is voted in Croatia, as it is voted outside Croatia. Our proposal is to make it a compromise way. I repeat that word many times, to vote where the Croatian state is, and these are the Croatian embassies and consulates both in BiH, both in Australia and Germany, and this is the topic of conversation. We owe it to the Croatian public. We want a clean, transparent and modern European process. That is also the subject of the European Parliament's Resolution. Why don't you just want it to come to a decision on the subject? So, as a topic, as an article 45. We do not define what one of these articles will look like today if you adopt a decision. We're just saying instead at this point we'll talk about it. You don't want it in a decision which is a form, and the form is important, but you are offering a special conclusion. You give me your word. I respect your word, but I repeat whether European negotiators take their word or wish for a little stronger commitment when we close certain chapters on the European Union. This is a strictly formal process right now. I'm afraid that's how you send a message that you don't really want to talk about it. We're gonna have to get close to the point of view. We've got enough months ahead of us. I once again appeal on behalf of SDP, HNS, IDS, on behalf of the party's representative, Silvan Hrelje, to formally in the decision, rather than in conclusion, say that we will also discuss the way we vote in Croatia and abroad. We want Croatia to adopt for the first time in 20 years a clear, transparent model, a European model, a model for which we will not have to pass on to each other for a year you have done this, you have done what, you are dishonest, you cheat. A model that will match Croatia, Croatian citizens, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats in Australia, not just part of the political elite of any political party, any political party. So, you're going to make a decision that you're going to collect or you're not going to collect most of it. But this is only the first step in the process that must end in a two-thirds decision in our Croatian Parliament. For that two-thirds decision, one large majority is needed. So, the SDP and HNS club, IDS, and not only needs a large majority but it needs an agreement. Up until now, the Constitution has always been changed in Croatia as well as the bad in the content of the available and force of the technical majority, the two-thirds. This is the first chance that in 20 years, we are in a position to be forced by circumstances to make this decision a result of the agreement. There's no deal without talking. We started talking about the new year. We talked a few times. We offered solutions to the SDP. We were offering some kind of middle road. We stand down from our basic position that the model of voting abroad is bad. And we're offering some sort of environment. We can't agree if you don't want to talk, and if the obligation not to formalize the water talks in this decision. That is why this conclusion makes no sense, and therefore the SDP and partners club, both HNS and IDS, will not vote for this conclusion because it is pointless if that obligation does not stand in the decision. It's the decision that counts. She's formal. It's an honor to have everyone's word of honor, but there are procedures. There is a state, there are institutions, and it's above all else. It's an important thing in this story. And once again I ask you to consider your position and that we are not in a situation that, at the beginning of the formal part of the process, we must oppose this way of working. The constitution doesn't have a deal, and there's no deal without your willingness to talk, a conversation that leads to some reasonable environment. You interrupted him two months ago. I'm inviting you back to the table. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52314	Thank you very much. As I have already pointed out, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System has not accepted the amendment of the SDP, HNS, IDS and Sylvan Hrelje in the section relating to the amendment of Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the exercise of electoral rights, holding that the issue is subject to further harmonisation, and proposing that this issue be discussed in the context of a debate on the proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Milanovic asked for a vote on this. So we vote exclusively on point d). 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia The exercise of electoral rights which the proposer and the Government do not accept. Please include and vote on this amendment, part of this amendment relating to Article. 45. So we're voting on the proposal of clubs of these that we listed in the section relating to art. 45. I'm asking for a result. The proposal was voted by 55, 7 abstentions and 73 against. So this part of the amendment is not accepted. In accordance with Art. 143. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, by majority vote of all MPs, decides whether to approach the amendment of the Constitution. So we need at least 77 votes to make this decision. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which has been established by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and which accepts as its Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please engage and vote on the decision to join the amendments to the Constitution. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposal for a Decision to join the amendments to the Republic of Croatia as established by the Committee and the Government was adopted by 82 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 53 against. What? Thank you very much. So, we have reached a decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as established by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and which accepts as its decision the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, MPs and deputies continue to work on this session and, first of all, we move on to the proposal for a Decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Before we go to this point of the agenda, please engage to check the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. The result? 109 registered, I have the impression that there are more and more of us, so I'm asking them to count themselves, but still because 102 votes are needed for one decision and so, 117. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Change of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed, but please the SDSS club has proposed conclusions. I would like to ask the representative of the proposer, Mr. Milorad Pupovac, to explain the conclusion that has only been addressed and is not reasoned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52316	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As you know, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS held during the parliamentary debate on the Government's proposal for amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that it is necessary for discussions on the possible content of the draft, the draft amendments to the Constitution and, also, in this proposal for a conclusion sent by the SDSS Representatives' Club, the proposal of the Government and the amendment clubs of SDP, HNS, IDS and representatives of Silvan Hrelje from the Croatian Party of pensioners should be considered equal and then the Committee for the Constitution and Rules of Procedure shall consider and turn them into a single proposal for the start of discussions on amendments to the Constitution. As we understand it, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure reached certain conclusions at its session yesterday. First, these conclusions are set out in the following, that the majority of the SDP, HNS, IDS and Silavan Hrelje's amendments are respected and become an integral part of the joint proposal. Except for that amendment relating to the amendment. 45. The Constitution of the And on this amendment, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, in its conclusion, proposes that the remaining disputed moment also be discussed during the debate on the amendment proposal and that some agreed common compromise solution be reached. In this regard, the club of representatives of the SDSS, and I also believe it is similar with the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, which was represented by MP Furio Radin, we believe that the conditions have been met for the opening of the debate in the Croatian Assembly on amendments to the Constitution. By being aware to the end that one of the most important things about amendments to the Constitution is the question of art. In 45th, we leave it for discussion, leave it for discussion, leave it for consent in the way it has been done before, and this process has been interrupted and the government has been involved, and as far as I understand this process would take place in the first row on this side of Mark's square and under this roof, which means within the Croatian Parliament. We believe that such an attitude of course raises a number of questions. Why not right now, why like that? But the Club of Representatives of the SDSS believes that this is a sensitive issue and that to manage a solution to this sensitive issue should be as wise as possible and skilled as possible and that if we are in charge of this kind of goal that, finally, before we reach the proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution, we come to the agreement that this proposal, the conclusion we have proposed, is, in fact, to the greatest extent possible or almost entirely consummated, and we are withdrawing it for this reason, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52317	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. This proposal has been withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out at the same time that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities will be drawn up to regulate the rights in relation to the vote of national minorities with the Draft Amendment of the Constitution. Those acts will at the same time be referred to the parliamentary procedure and the amendments to the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities will be voted before the vote amending the Constitution. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Conclusion: The Croatian Parliament will establish a body that will monitor the work of the competent institutions responsible for detecting and sanctioning the criminal parts committed during the conversion and privatisation, which will submit a report to the Croatian Assembly once a year. I would like to ask the representative of the president of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of Mr Shex to make clear of the proposed conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52318	I believe, without a doubt, that it is not in accordance with the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Croatia to establish such a single special body in the proposed sense, therefore I believe that this conclusion should not be accepted if the applicant does not withdraw it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52319	Thank you. I ask the government's representative, Mr. Shimonovic, to also be shown about the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52320	The government agrees with the Committee's views. The government is in agreement with the position of the Constitutional Committee, as Mr. Vice President Shakespeare has just formulated it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52321	I am voting on a proposal to conclude the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, which is not accepted by the Government or by the Proposer. Please, let's get involved and vote. Please make your statement on the proposal of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, which is not accepted by the Government, or by the President of the Committee on the Constitution. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result was voted in favour of this proposal by 9, abstention 5, v 116, therefore this conclusion was not accepted. The representative of Silvano Hrelja proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt a conclusion which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that within 60 days of the debate in the Croatian Parliament, it shall establish and conduct a public debate on the draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please, the president of the Constitution committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52322	Given that the Constitution and its Rules of Procedure provide for the procedure for amending and supplementing the Constitution, I propose that this conclusion not be accepted by Mr Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52323	Thank you. Representative of the government, Mr. Minister Shimonovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52324	The government also proposes not to accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52325	Thank you very much. Let us please include and vote on the proposal of Mr Silvan Hrelje, who is not accepted by the Government or by the Committee. I'll get you a score. This conclusion was not accepted because it received 18 votes for, 19 abstentions and 85 against. The amendments were submitted by Dragutin Lesar, and joint SDP, HNS and IDS representatives and Silvano Hrelja. So, I would like the representative of the motion, the chairman of the Committee of Mr Vladimir Seks, to make a statement on the amendment tabled by Mr Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52326	At yesterday's session, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System unanimously concluded that it did not accept, that Mr Dragutin Lesar's amendment was not accepted, that the Croatian Parliament on the Proposal for a Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should call a referendum in accordance with Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Committee unanimously concluded that this amendment was not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52327	Thank you. I'd like a representative of the government of Minister Shimonovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52328	The government also proposes not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52329	Thank you. Please, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52330	Thank you, Mr. President. Vice-President Shakespeare has left out another constitutional committee argument stating that the constitutional changes have reached a high degree of consent, which is why they do not consider the referendum necessary. The high degree of consent will be seen during the vote. But secondly, you sent a message to the citizens of this country, when the political elite in the Constitution or in the Law enters a word, as stated in Article 86. The constitution, that the Parliament can call a referendum, it just means that it can, the citizens can get it when they produce grapes on vervain. And I demand a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52331	Thank you very much. I'm putting Mr. Dragutin Lesar's amendment to the vote. Please include and vote on an amendment which the applicant does not accept. The result? This amendment has received two votes for, four abstentions and 115 against. Thank you very much. We have an amendment on the accession of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, the HNS Representatives' Club, the IDS Representatives' Club and the representative of Silvano Hrelja. And I ask that the president of the proposing committee, Mr. Vladimir Seks, be made aware of this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52332	The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System adopted, by a majority of 7 votes in favour and 5 against, in part, the amendment of the SDP, HNS and IDS Club and representatives of Silvan Hrelje, saying: "The proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in point 1 above subparagraph 3 adds new subparagraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. Seven. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments and additions to art. 38. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is entitled to access information. Amendments and additions to art. 65. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia must and free of charge of education. Amendments and additions to art. 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the adoption of a state budget. Amendments and additions to art. 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the Advocate General. And amendments and additions of articles. 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia elects judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia." By becoming sub-point 10 of the present sub-point 4, which means that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has accepted all of these amendments or all of this amendment in the integral part with the proposal to be included in the proposal for a decision on the accession of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. With regard to that part of the amendment or amendment, if it is taken as a separate amendment to these said clubs of representatives and representatives of Silvan Hrelje, in the section relating to the amendment of the Article. 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia took the view that this issue is subject to further harmonisation and suggested that this issue be discussed in the context of a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In this connection, the Committee reached its own conclusion with the majority of votes, which reads: "The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will discuss all the proposals in relation to the proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia". So the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution to the Croatian Parliament is to discuss art. The 45th continues within the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. When setting out the draft draft amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee on the Constitution also adopted all other amendments to the SDP, HDS, IDS and Silvan Hrelje Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52333	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister's representative, Mr. Shimonovic, to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52334	The Government proposes that this amendment be adopted in the amended form, and welcomes the progress made in the agreement process, and welcomes the express willingness of the Committee to discuss all proposals in relation to Article on the occasion of the debate on the draft proposal. 45. The constitution expects the committee to carry out its conclusion consistently and calls for the necessary compromises in order to reach a consensus on the content of the changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52335	Thank you very much. On behalf of the clubs, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52336	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The chairman of the Constitutional Committee said a few minutes ago there was a procedure for amending the Constitution. So we determine the framework for amending the constitution and define which articles are. What the Committee on the Constitution of our amendment has adopted has long been agreed solutions that are completely unproblemable and that have been agreed upon long ago. However, Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. 45. is not included, but is offered to regulate the Committee's special conclusion, not by decision, not by defining the framework, but by a special conclusion. It's a promise or even a word of honor. So I'd like to ask if we're closing chapters in our talks with Bruxella either by giving an honorary word or by the procedure that you were talking about earlier, we're defining things in advance. In this regard, we ask for a vote on our amendment as proposed and we call once again for a real conversation, on the matter of compromise and respect for procedures. And the procedure is such that all points of conversation are determined in the decision, not in the conclusion. The conclusion is an honorary word. I believe you, but I'm asking you, do they accept the word of honor or the formal document in Burxelles? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52337	Thank you very much. On these amendments listed other than as regards Article 45, the Committee did not accept the SDP, HNS, IDS and Sylvan Hrelje in the section relating to the amendment of Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the exercise of electoral rights, holding that this issue is subject to further harmonisation and proposing that this issue be discussed in the context of the debate on the proposal to establish a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we will only vote on the part relating to the article. 45th which the applicant does not accept. The others are accepted. Here you go. ... We'll continue the session at 11.45 a.m. until then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52338	I suggest we still try to do point two, three, four. There's very little and almost nothing reported, so we could do it. We move to item 2 of the agenda - Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the present and the appointment of a new member of the Competition Protection Council. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government has proposed all decisions pursuant to Article 31. The law on the protection of competition. You received the proposal by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Protection of Competition has been established that the President and members of the Competition Protection Council shall appoint and resolve the duties of the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the light of the provision of Article 32(2) of the Act, the President and the members of the Competition Protection Council shall be appointed for a period of five years and may be re-appointed. As so far a member of the Competition Protection Council, Mr Mladen Cerovac, expires five years from the date of 13 April 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for a decision to resolve a member of the Competition Protection Council for the expiry of the term of office at the meeting on 18 March 2010. At the same meeting, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for a decision to appoint a new member of the Competition Protection Council, which proposes a present member of Mr Mladen Cerovac's council by a decision for a new member of the Council. The provisions of Article 32(1) of the act cited are laid down in the conditions for designation, which are met by the proposed member in full. As a magistrate of law with a legal exam and the longest practical and theoretical experience in competition law employed by the Competition Protection Agency since 1997, one of its founders is now acting as vice-president of the Competition Protection Council. He is also a member of the Working Party for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for Chapter 8. I therefore propose adopting the proposal for a decision to resolve the present and appoint a new member of the Competition Protection Council, Mr Mladen Cerovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52340	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52341	Let us move forward, the proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the present and the appointment of a new member of the Competition Protection Council. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a Decision authorising a member of the Competition Protection Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This decision was taken by the majority of votes, 125 votes for, 1 abstention, nothing against. I am also voting on the proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Competition Protection Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by most votes, 119 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against, the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52342	We move to the third item of the agenda - Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council Proposer: The Committee for Justice of the Justice Committee has submitted this proposal on the basis of Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the materials by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one's reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52343	We move on to the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council, the Proposer is the Committee on Justice, the debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The resolution decision was adopted by a majority of 116 votes to, 1 abstention nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52344	We move to item four - Final draft law on the approval of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ballast Waters and Casualties of 2004, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 533 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Mario Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52345	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Even in the days of sailing boats, rocks and sand that served to improve ship's stability and the possibility of weather steering. At that time, in these Croatian areas, the ballast was called sovrnja, places in the harbor where the ballast was laid down were called saunas, and all parts of the port were built in the ports, harbors, rocks, which the ships landed as ballast. In the beginning of the construction of iron ships, the ballast no longer moved like a stiff ballast, stone and sand but began to install special tanks in which the sea ballast boarded. At that very time, there is a great danger of sea ballast pollution. In fact, ships are plowing ballasts in various ports, oceans where various aggressive organisms live that when they change the medium, when they change the sea in which they live then become aggressive, extremely dangerous so that today's ballast is one of the world's largest polluters of the world's seas. The Republic of Croatia is highly interested in signing the Balast Convention, as Croatia is extremely and threatened by sea ballast. I would like to stress that in the northern Adriatic ports over 50 million tonnes of dangerous cargo is manipulated annually, and out of these 50 million tonnes of dangerous cargo, only 10 to 20% are manipulated in Croatian ports. However, ships carrying this dangerous burden, ships that sift that dangerous ballast 70% sail to the Adriatic Sea, spend sailing through our territorial sea and through our ZERP. And that's why we're very much in favour of settling the issue of convening the ballast and for the convention to be ratified. It is precisely because of the engagement of the Croatian government and the Ministry of the Sea that the International Maritime Organisation has declared the Republic of Croatia a leading partner in the world's global ballast system. What has the Republic of Croatia done? First of all, in 2006, with the help of... A study has been carried out by the Institute and the Norwegian Government proposing that the Adriatic Sea become a particularly sensitive area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the framework of the project, we proposed that any ballast whose origin was outside the Adriatic be prohibited in the Adriatic Sea. We contacted, agreed with all the Adriatic states, and at the initial stage we received exceptional support. However, when we started discussing the restrictions that would mean it then the support went a little low, although in recent months we expect that our neighbouring countries will support us and that we will succeed in declaring the Adriatic a particularly sensitive area. Another measure we've taken compared to the ballast is that in 2007, the Minister passed a rule on the management of ballast waters in our territorial sea in the inner sea waters. This regulation has required all ships to provide data on the quantity, type and place of boarding ballast, and we have authorized port captains to conduct examinations and sampling of ballasts on ships that sail into our territorial sea. I think we've had an extraordinary success in that, because the fewer ships that have been hoarding ballast in the Venetian lagoons, we've landed in our ports, no longer landing that ballast in our territorial sea. Following the honourable MPs, we ask you to support this bill because it will be one contribution to the protection of the Adriatic Sea according to the Convention and our Croatian ships will have to invest additionally in the equipment, but it will be a far greater benefit for us to protect our sea. The great world states that have strong tanker fleets, developed industry, they slow the signing of the convention because they are not interested, but the Republic of Croatia as a coastal state, as a state living off the sea, is absolutely interested in signing the convention. So, once again, I ask you to support the signing of the convention, the passing of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52346	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. First clubs, we have two clubs. First, the distinguished representative Branko Bacic is on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52347	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ships and Ballast Waters and Casualties of 2004. A short time ago, a respected colleague of state, Mr. Mario Babic, told history since it has been practically sailing that there is a ballast that simply contributes to the safety and stability of the ship. But the real ballast problem has been clear since when there are steel ships, since when ships use sea or ballast water that clearly contributes to the safety of navigation itself. The real problem with ballast waters arises in the 1980s when, otherwise, awareness is raised about the protection of the marine environment and it has been found that the great danger to the marine environment due to change and diversity must be threatened by ballast waters that bring ships to certain ports. And so from then on, all the way up to here 6 years ago when the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ballast Waters and Casualties was signed, talks about the possibility of treating ballast waters that come to certain ports properly. The signed convention, which is important, implies 2 standards in the treatment of ballast waters. The first standard is that ships are required at a certain distance and at a certain depth to change ballast waters, so it can be called the standard of method. And the second is, the standard of quality, that is the standard that implies that ships are built a treatment device that would release a relatively acceptable amount of organisms to the sea prior to the release of ballast waters to the sea that will not contribute to further pollution. We are signatories of this Convention in Croatia, we clearly ratify it, but regardless of the fact that the Convention itself did not come into force, the Secretary of State, the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has already said earlier, with the consent of the Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, which has laid down the rules for all ships flying to Croatian ports prohibiting the changes of ballast waters in the Adriatic. Clearly, therefore, if only one Adriatic state, a coastal state such as Croatia, does not bring such a rule, and the other states, primarily Italy, whose ports are mostly the largest number of ships carrying ballast, then that rule cannot achieve the purpose for which it has been adopted. Therefore, the right solution may only be when this Convention enters into force and when it commits all States that are the Adriatic coastal states, that in the same way as provided for by the regulation adopted by the Minister and which imposes ships in their ports to treat ballast waters in the same way. The problem of ballast waters in Croatia is particularly expressed in the decision-making process of the Republic of Croatia on the "Adria Society" project. And it was practically right through the study that affected the environment which was established and adopted in the project "The Association of Adria", the Republic of Croatia declared the status of the project "The Association of Adria". The project itself can function on the moment when this second standard I mentioned earlier, which is a standard of quality that will be imposed on ships that before the landing of ballast waters are required to clean up then this project would be fully from the ecological aspect, not to mention the economic aspect of the Republic of Croatia would be fully acceptable. What is important is that in this process of treatment of ballast waters, in the decision-making process against the possibility of landing ballast waters in the Adriatic and how to approach the treatment of ballast waters of the Republic of Croatia is a regional leader in this part of Europe. So everything we do in Croatia is just on track, and I would say, I would dare say, in front of the convention itself, because, as I said, we have taken a series of measures to preserve the marine environment when it comes to preserving the marine environment. And another important thing, I think Mr. Secretary of State has mentioned, and that is that Croatia is the organizer and the leading state in the section relating to the submission of the declaration to the International Maritime Organisation of a document on the declaration of the Adriatic Sea in particular. For many years, we have been trying to convince all other states, the Adriatic coastal states, that almost all countries accept everything that we have meant that this declaration should mean and that it should bind both ports and ships that sail to these ports as well as how to treat ballast waters in order to preserve the cleanest sea in the world, which is therefore the Adriatic Sea. Therefore, from what the Convention itself has adopted, and for the reason that we as a state in this regard are implementing clearly that the HDZ will therefore accept and support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52348	Thank you. HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52349	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We have before us a proposal that the Croatian People's Party Club of Liberal Democrats will, of course, accept and advocate that the Croatian Parliament as a legislator does everything in its power to regulate this area and protect itself as much as possible in time, i.e. before the possible expansion of tanker traffic that is most directly threatened by the Adriatic because all tankers that go not only to our ports, but also to the ports of Copra, Pirana and Trieste are actually a potential danger to the existing diversity of the Adriatic and the indigenousity of its species. The fact is that in this story, in the story of the international convention, Croatia is far more on the side of the victims' countries than on the side of the polluters' countries. Because when we look at the actual ratification process, then it's clear, until now, the convention has been ratified by only 20 countries, mostly small, those whose territorial waters are directly exposed to ballast waters, and the great players of the country in which large maritime transport systems are registered, so large shipping companies on the one hand and countries that make significant profits from their ports, such as our neighbouring Italy, are still being held aside from this Convention, and the fact is that they will practically enter into force when they join at least 20 countries. In 2007, we passed an appropriate regulation that we are trying to protect our part of the Adriatic and what counterpart Bacic says, as long as Italy doesn't do the same hard we can talk about doing business for the whole Adriatic, however, happiness in accidents is so-called. The sea currents that always go to the harm of our neighbours, so whenever they pollute the Adriatic in one way or another, whether by their industry in northern Italy or because of other ballast waters, they first feel it, just as they feel their tourism and their coast on the other side of the Adriatic. Whether the logic of capital and profit logic will continue to dominate the logic of common sense and environmental protection, it will likely continue to be strong and dominant, unfortunately, because I would dare to tell a politician in my mind because they are making decisions like this type still does not touch enough of the danger it carries with it among other things and this type of pollution. In the world, 12 billion tons of ballast waters are transported worldwide and more than 4.5 thousand different species of organisms and some 3,000 different plankton species. If we look at how the Mediterranean went, without the Adriatic, we will see in fact what are the real possible scales of the ecological threat brought by intensive shipping, primarily tanking traffic, when we talk about it, first of all, in the maritime directions that go from Gibraltar to Dardanel, or that enters the Mediterranean via the Suez Channel. The Adriatic is part of the Mediterranean and will hardly be excluded from the overall story of its ecological stability, but it is a fact that thanks to God still belongs to those seas that are on average clean and under average threatened. If all those who care about making political decisions of this type, which are based on science, knowledge and awareness of the environment, were to do their job and raise standards above all in the treatment technology of ballast waters, it would be assumed that the quality of the sea around us would be higher and longer. And without further ado, I will only repeat that the HNS Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Boat Ballast Waters and Casualties adopted in 2004 with the Final Proposal for Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52350	Thank you. An individual debate, Mr. Agent Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52351	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. I am particularly pleased and will certainly support the 2004 Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ballast Waters and Casualties with the Final Proposal of the Law on the grounds that it is visible in the materials that Croatia is very much giving meaning to such certificates of law. If we know that 90% of the world's trade is taking place in the sea, which is ultimately one of the most environmentally acceptable forms of transport, then we know how many ships pass and drop ballast waters into the sea. The Secretary of State himself mentioned some information that is certainly interesting but we also need to know that in the Adriatic Sea, and especially in the area, you yourself have indicated in Sibenik area because of the transport of stone to Italy all ships come with ballast waters and we know what it means for that part of the Adriatic, but we also know what it means for the upper part of the northern Adriatic where the tankers pass through to Trieste and part of Slovenia. IF the question of ballast waters was of great importance discussed by the American Congress, he considered a law that would require vessels to install sterilization systems that would kill all foreign plants and animals. This was discussed very seriously in the American Congress, so one of the proposals that studied on ships of 32,000 tons [32,000 tons] of capacity, in relations from North America to Northern Europe, came to an conclusion even in order to save about $150,000 on such a one - trip. Not only is this discussed seriously in a way that is viewed as pollution in a way but rather as savings that would be carried out in such a way. So more models are proposed, it is certainly good that Croatia confirms this Convention which will be confirmed, of course, when the number of countries needed is expensive, and 12 months later there would be confirmation. Although Croatia itself has approached problem-solving through a series of activities, the primary adoption of the Regulation on the management and control of water ballast, which has been in place since 1 September 2004, due to the sensitivity of the topics being developed by the Republic of Croatia by ratification of this Convention, gives a clear sign of its commitment to the development of maritime development, on the basis of environmental protection and sustainable conservation of natural habitats. Also, when we talk about it, we can get information that the Adriatic is passing cca 5 thousand tankers, and by the statistics on them a thousand, let's say, one accident happens. Most of these tankers have ballast water and plus the accidents that are happening on them, so now we need to know and be aware of what we want and how important the confirmation of this convention is. Also in the Adriatic Sea, about 2.5 thousand tons of ballast waters are released annually. So when we look at it all and consider this convention, there's no reason why it shouldn't be accepted by an emergency procedure. So I'm going to repeat once again that I'm going to be as well as a person who comes from the sea and knows what life at sea means and how important it is that there is no invasion if we can say so these harmful substances that could happen on our sea and happen. And we said these data that are visible and can do it. So I accept and will, however, support this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52352	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52353	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. In the beginning, I will say that I will support this proposal of the Law to confirm the international convention on the control and management of ship's ballast waters and deposits because this seems to be extremely important. In fact, at times when the ship and the ballast were made of rock and sand, there could be no idea what kind of ballast would become a threat in these times for the world's seas. But the development of world trade has conditioned and increased sea traffic with positive effects has also brought serious threats to different forms of marine pollution. Ballast waters are a problem when they are uncontrollably released into new eco systems unprepared to receive and absorb them. It is estimated that some 3,000 different living organisms are transported daily with ballast waters. Therefore, aware of the dangers caused by increased shipping to the Adriatic Sea and in 2004, the Republic of Croatia took part in solving these problems by making a study to consider for the first time the problem of the introduction of harmful organisms into the Adriatic Sea. A rule has also been adopted in a number of these, recognising the real danger but also reducing the risks arising from the transfer of marine organisms and the International Maritime Community organises a Conference on Ballast Water Management in London in 2004 where the Convention on the Control and Management of Ballastic Waters was adopted and adopted. For the first time in a clear and complete way, the Convention has arranged the management of ballast waters as the largest transporter of harmful organisms. So the forecasts are that the convention will meet its entry into force during this year. In order for it to meet the requirements, it is necessary to sign and access at least 30 countries with over 35% of the total gross volume of weight. Chapters provide for a plan for the management of ballast waters so that each ship has to be located and a plan for the management of ballast waters shall be applied, a journal kept for two years. It is also prescribed when to make a change of ballast waters. It is said that the best way to change ballast waters is when the ship is 200 sea miles from the nearest land. The management of the way we want to achieve this Convention aims to reduce and finally stop the transfer from harmful aquatic organisms. Given that the Adriatic Sea is a particularly sensitive sea, and the richness of the Adriatic Ecosystem is remarkable, the Republic of Croatia should certainly be preceded by initiatives to preserve this wealth. And this convention is a step in that direction and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52354	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a proposal for a resolution on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan. So then the proposal for a resolution on the modification and addition of the list of companies of special state interest. Proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the State Judicial Council, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-28-0.u52355	We move on to the final proposal of the 2004 Act on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ballast Waters and Casualties, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 533. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the approval of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Boat Ballast Waters and Casualties of 2004. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 124 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
