ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63348	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The pension insurance law is aligned with economic developments, with their current value being changed twice a year on the basis of half of salary growth and half of the consumer price growth rate in the previous half-year. Although harmonisation in practice meant a steady increase in pensions, this was because economic indicators of wage growth and consumer prices were on the rise, however, in the case of negative movements of these indicators, harmonisation would lead to a reduction of pensions because those provisions of the Pension Insurance Act speak of harmonisation rather than an increase in pensions. The terms of the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia with the Law on Special Taxation of Salaries, Pensions and Other Retirements were suspended in 2010. It should also be said that in May 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia presented a programme of economic recovery and began its implementation. In line with this programme at its extraordinary session of 26 and 30 August 2010, and in view of the rebalance of the national budget for 2010, the Croatian Parliament decided that the total level of expenditure of the state budget in 2011 and 2012 will not increase compared to the total level of expenditure determined by the changes and additions of the national budget for 2010, and that the total level of expenditure of the financial plans of the non-profit beneficiaries of the state budget in 2011, I had previously misread in 2011 and 2012. Therefore, in 2011 and 2012, it will not increase compared to the total level of expenditure determined by the financial plans and out-of- budget beneficiaries of the state budget. Following these restrictions, it is necessary to continue, among other things, to suspend pension harmonisation and in 2011. This temporary suspension of the harmonisation of pensions on the one hand, in accordance with the decision of the Croatian Parliament, ensures that there is no increase in the expenditure of the state budget, and on the other hand in the case of negative, possible negative wage trends and consumer prices for pensioners is guaranteed to keep pensions at the existing level. The proposed law would not apply the provisions of Article 81(2) and (3) and Article 86. Pension Insurance Act, with the consequences of suspending pension harmonisation with economic developments in 2011. The temporary harmonisation of pensions would cover all pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act, and special provisions in pension insurance paid by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The temporary non-coordination of pensions in 2011 will result in certain savings in the state budget for the amount that would be spent on harmonising pensions in that year, if this were to occur, or should be said more precisely, so there would be no increased costs in the state budget from the foundation of that item, and, on the other hand, as I mentioned in the case of negative wage trends and consumer prices for pensioners, guaranteeing the retention of pensions at the existing level. In this regard, I would like to mention the situation in 2010, so that there was no Law on Special Tax on Salary and Pensions and Other Receipts, which also suspended the harmonisation of pensions this year, what would happen? So in 1.1.2010, according to data from the Croatian Institute of Statistics, gross salary fell 0.5% and consumer prices dropped 0.2%, resulting in a pension drop of 0.35%. So not a large amount, but a fall. 1.7. If there were a second alignment, if it hadn't been for that law, so the decline in gross earnings according to the Croatian Statistics Institute data was 0.4% and the growth in consumer prices was 1%, resulting in a rise in pensions of 0.3%. But in total, we had minus 0.35 and plus 0.30. So, in 2010 according to the National Statistics Institute, there was a decline in the indicator, and there would have been a drop in pensions for a small amount, but this would have been a drop of 0.05%, so there was no Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts. Finally, it should be said that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the state budget, and also since this law proposes temporary harmonisation of pensions from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 for the implementation of the Government's economic recovery programme, i.e. for particularly justified state reasons, as well as for the implementation of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the limitation of budgetary resources in 2011 and 2012, it is proposed to adopt this law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63349	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Vice-President of the House of Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we begin by discussing a law that clearly and drastically indicates the situation in Croatia today. Croatia is in a situation today that due to drastically poor indicators, all indicators of growth, creation of new values, employment, etc., one restrictive law and that law relating to almost the poorest population in the Republic of Croatia. In other words, the Government of the Republic of Croatia brought us at a time or brought us into a situation where we must start saving on poverty. These words of mine are not too harsh compared to what this law regulates. It regulates, or suspends, possible growth or harmonisation of pensions that average for the Republic of Croatia or pensioners in the Republic of Croatia amount to 2 thousand 162 kuna. It's about an amount that can't really ensure the survival of a normal family. And not even to a two-member family, a family that has to settle its obligations neatly, which has to pay for water, electricity, transportation, which must pay for housing, which has to pay for heating, which may not have been done for 40 or 45 years, as is often said when it comes to the retirement population, but which has done 25, 30, 35 years, filled state budgets, filled funds, provided that the pensions are paid to many today burn on these 2,000 kunas and a minimum survival option from 1 to 31st. Of course, that the country is in crisis, of course that pension funds are in crisis, but as usual, apart from the measures that point to the current savings, the ongoing savings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or in the pension insurance system, and neither in the budget system nor in some other economic and development policies shows no intention of having a real impact on the crisis management in the pension system. To ensure that pensions are paid properly, as well as the growth of those pensions. I must admit that I am now listening to the opening words of the motionary of the State Secretary on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that they have angered me. It seems to me, not that it seems to me, but it is definitely hypocritical to explain this law by pointing out that there were no such exceptional rules that additionally burdened salaries and even some pensions, that pensions would be reduced and that such restrictions actually save our pensioners from falling. Well, if that's the case, then we in the SDP have a different proposition. Let it remain within the law the possibility of harmonising with the growth of wages and the rise of prices in retail trade, but let a special provision be introduced in that law which does not reduce pensions in the event of a price drop or a fall in wages. We believe that this is a much more humane, much more appropriate solution than this. We cannot accept that the state budget, that the state, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is saving and implementing economic recovery measures on pensioners. It's really not acceptable, it can't be explained and it can't stand. The government has already implemented one austerity or pension cuts on pensioners. You know that a law has been passed on the reduction of pensions laid down under special regulations. And there is everything, and there are special regulations or pensions according to special regulations that often include those pensions that have been made under full retirement training, but which may have been entered for some time or some years that you are calculating to defenders according to special regulations. It's about that period of participation in a war that then counts under special regulations and which is why some or many, it's hard for me to tell which number of pensioners are involved, a reduced pension by 10%. Many people ask and do not fully understand why their pension has been reduced if they have completed their full period of service. Restriction to restrictions. But there are no restrictions on the country's attitude towards many non-priority costs. There are no restrictions on voter vote buying, but that's why, without any problem, he's threatening and trying to save on pensioners. Indeed, on the category that generates the least income and which survives most heavily in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we would like to tell the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this is not a good measure, that this is not the right measure to launch economic growth, development and employment. Because all these restrictive laws that are passed without a problem are referred to the Programme of Economic Recovery of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, they also call for these measures to be taken by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Well, since he's already calling for the Parliament, then we'll make it loud and clear in front of everyone in the Republic of Croatia that it wasn't brought by the entire Parliament, that it was brought by most in the Parliament. That one third of the MPs that's falling out of the SDP Club thinks exactly the opposite, thinks differently. He thinks that the problems are being tackled by measures in the area of the economy, measures in the field of tax policy, employment measures, and measures that will encourage the activity of our citizens, in measures that will enable the creation of new entrepreneurship initiatives, measures that will allow for greater employment, thus achieving greater revenue in budgets and funds, and thus not only the stability and security of pensions and pension payments but also in the perspective of the growth of these pensions. It's the only thing that's acceptable to us at the SDP Club, that's the only reason we'd be able to reach a consensus and raise your hand for support. For these measures, for such a defensive policy in relation to the crisis and overcoming this crisis, we cannot agree. We are very sorry that this problem is approached in such a way, we are very sorry that all spoken words, that all the legal proposals we put into the procedure, which we have been making for years in the procedure, are going without any influence on thinking, on the government's views, we are sorry to have decided by revote, we are sorry that in this crisis we are not trying to overcome political animosity, which is not trying to overcome the fear of losing power and accept responsibility and accept the proposals that come from the other side, which in this crisis situation could provide positive steps. Indeed, it cannot sit and wait for something to happen on its own, but from sitting and waiting, it seems to me that worse such proposals are no result other than an additional reduction in the possible reduction of real wages, the increasingly difficult lives of people and the halting of a pro-active policy which will then solve the situation of pensioners and the situation of pension funds but also economic development. Since we are discussing a law relating to the pension system and the situation of the pensioners, I do not want to miss this opportunity on behalf of the SDP Club once again to warn of a huge space, a huge problem that remains open at 2. The Peace Pillar, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been completely ignoring and neglecting since 2004. It's a problem that will collapse on the head of any future government, a problem that will seriously endanger the existence of future pensioners, and not those in 20 years, because it's already been 10 years since the introduction of 2. The pillar, and already come the first generations to make pensions after that. We all know how much we had to intervene, and how much it cost the country all of a sudden, and how much it cost the state to make such a balance and to ensure such normal pensions to that group of pensioners, and you can imagine what would happen when a new wave of retirement takes place. Another important note. It is not clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not see what essentially threatens the stability of the pension system, so it is not the amount of pensions that is further restricted by this law, they say temporarily but for the next year, it is an extremely large inflow of new pensioners above all. A large number of these new pensioners, an average of 1,000 new pensioners, we have monthly, a wave is about people who do not want to work, but either have no place to work or their companies fail, or their jobs are abolished, and by force they go to early retirements that are definitely not favourable to them. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not recognise that the problem is not at the level of pensions that is limited by this law, but that the problem lies in the absence, not the existence of an active, useful, effective developmental economic policy, which will address this problem, and, note, the open problem of the second pension pillar, which will soon be passed on to everyone and for which we in the SDP Club and for this Law do not want to take responsibility. We will vote against this law and we are looking for entirely other proactive development measures as a means of stabilising and ensuring pension payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63351	Thank you. 5 corrections. First Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Antunovic said the government does not provide a proper way to pay and grow pensions and that the government is saving on pensioners. On the contrary, this government has ensured after 2004 that your government did not have the courage and knowledge to do so, this government has ensured the payment of pensions to all Croatian pensioners, this government also provides the budget for 2011 for the regular and regular payment of pension pension rights to Croatian pensioners, and I remind myself once again on time from 2000 to 2004 when the Government was unable to secure the payment of debt to pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63353	The next correction by Mrs. Representative Gjurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63354	Thank you, Mr. President. A series of incorrect allegations and I will correct the incorrect allegations of Ms. Anticevic's representative in the section that says that this government is arrogant and Yeah. [[Intruder Vladimir Seks: Antunović, not Antičević.]] So, the SDP and the SDP coalition continue to be ignoring. They ignore the times in which we live, and that's why they can say it's about the haughtiness of this government and that it's about buying votes. Well, the series is the fact that we could really convince you of that, but this last rebalancing, and the budget of no government has ever said so honestly and courageously what times we are in. It's one thing if you understand it and you want it, and the other doesn't, because you're saying one thing, you're doing the other, and you're thinking the other. So this shows the example of the city of Zagreb and the budgeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63355	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63356	Let me just say the biggest cut is 18% in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63357	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63358	Well, here's a colleague who incorrectly states that the government buys unnecessary things, that the government buys voters, which is what the draft budget itself is, and that's exactly what it's debate is, buying voters without cover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63359	Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of Antunovic's on behalf of the club I'll quote her for saying one sentence incorrectly. With the surprise that the government does not recognise that pensions are not the problem of economic recovery. My colleague Antunović, you are so surprised. It is not true that you are so surprised because the government is absolutely not based on the level of pensions in economic recovery and the entire economic recovery programme. If you looked at the situation a little bit better and more realistic, you wouldn't talk like that. Just yesterday, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was a very valuable project, which was a 66 million-dollar open-air node on the Rijeka-Zagreb highway point of Zdenčina. This is a very important project for economic recovery not only in the area of employment but also in the absolute economic and any other development of this area. And you're saying three days ago that pensions should be reduced, and today you're saying you can't touch them. Well, if the government were to listen to you, you wouldn't know how to solve these problems that they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63361	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majedenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct Mrs. Antunovic's incorrect allegations that the government is ignoring the problems of the pension second pillar, which is really not true. This government doesn't ignore anything about pensions. So you can't say that. But I'm going to remind you that she introduced that second pillar of your government, not asking questions, but simply one piece of them could have been defined, and another part of the insurance company was forced to do so. You didn't make that law right at all. And now you're saying that the government has been ignoring the second pillar since 2004, so this is really amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63363	The club of MPs IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63364	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. One road node is commendable, but it's 66 million kuna. That's one hall. Now let's let it go. I should now return to the Final Proposal of the Rescheduling and Harmonisation Act for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2011. This law only has two articles. I'll quote them not so much for you, but for the public. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Pension Insurance Act, National Journal." Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). "This law will be published in the National The IDS Club has submitted two amendments. Amendments stating that Article 1 is deleted and that Article 2 is also deleted. One word to put this whole law out of force. First why? This argument I'd say is childish. At the conclusion level, I'd say the Istrian police that a gun shot from a professionally designed silencer is not an assassination attempt, but a intimidation. But I'm not going to talk about it, I'm going to talk about this law and this argument. What does the promoter say? After all government oaths during the 2011 budget debate and that salaries and pensions will not be touched. Here it is literally said in the assessment of the state of the bill, that "the peace is in line with economic developments, by changing their current value twice a year. On the basis of half of the wage growth rate and half of the consumer price growth in the previous half-year, although in practice harmonisation means a steady increase in pension. This was because economic indicators of wage growth and consumer prices were on the rise. However, in the case of negative movements of these indicators, harmonisation would lead to a reduction in pensions. Because those provisions of the Pension Insurance Act speak of harmonisation rather than an increase in pensions." So you yourself admit about what the economic flows will be during the period ahead of us. I agree, it pays hardly to grow in the country, but what will happen with consumer prices, it remains to be seen. They will certainly grow if, for example, Rohatinski does not defend the euro's money course, he if he does not defend that course they will simply explode. But you know what can happen to us in this country of absurdity? That I might even be able to raise my wages. How will they grow? How will wages rise during this recession and crisis period when the day is run out of work? Yes indeed how, when the tenants here in the House wear these badges and oppose me I will call it renting or privatizing the kitchen, the rolling stock or whatever. How can they grow? By continuing discharge in the real sector, which is actually Croatia's biggest tragedy. The fewer jobs in the real sector, the higher the pay average. And it's this tragic Croatian paradox. Trade unions in Istria are constantly calling it the average wage in Istria, for example. Less than the average Croatian salary. And then a man asks himself a question, is that possible? Well, it's possible. And why is that possible? Be careful, in Croatia, the proportion of workers retired came to the historic lowest level of 1.25 workers per 1 pensioner. In Istria it's 1.7 to 1.8 to 1. And it turns out where more is done, where there are more employees means where the real sector that feeds the public sector is stronger, that average wages are also lower. And that is indeed true, it is not normal but in one country paradoxes such as Croatia and it is possible. There, next to the City of Zagreb where all monopolies are approximately concentrated, not counting the TDR, and who are all more or less state-owned, for example. one HEP, Croatian water, INA, well Telekom is privatized, Pliva privatized. There are ministries, so logically higher salaries, a large university, the headquarters of all banks are right here in the City of Zagreb, there are embassies, Croatian radiotelevision, national institutions, so there are average salaries higher. There are large importers, hospitals, etc. There's a Vukovar County somewhere behind them. Why, because there de facto only works in this public sector, in public institutions, from border police, courts, state administration, local self-government, hospitals, etc., and where there are some industries left, and in Istria industry is still the first economic branch, I hope it will remain that way for the growth of the export economy. You see, here we come to the fact that the salaries are below the average of the Republic, that the average worker is opposite the pensioner in favour of these others and the average in Istria would certainly be higher. So the more you do, the more opportunities you get in the middle of it, the more you take care of the state budget, the less your salary, the less normal it comes back to you, etc., etc. Of course it's always better that you have more jobs, especially in the real sector, that you have less unemployment. There's about 8% in Istria, there's going to be 10, so it's always better than if it's the other way around, but it's absurd that the higher unemployment, the more public-sector pay. Why, because everyone works like I said in that public sector and vice versa, where something of that real economy stays there and wages are generally less. And it is certainly another thing, that nowhere is better at this moment of recession than it is in the public sector, and that is why it is necessary to understand the managers of this Croatian Parliament who clearly want to stay under the hat of the state and pay and for collective contracts, I do not know if they have any severances, etc., etc. On the other hand, the more people are employed in the real sector, the more clearly they are, the less you rely on the state, unfortunately, your wages are on average less. This should also be discussed in the context of some announcements about some new visions of regionalization, but perhaps some other occasion. But I'm afraid the next day the abolition of the county will lead to another form of centralism coming to life at some lower levels. In the light of this bill, respected gentlemen are also quoted as saying: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia presented the Economic Recovery Programme in May 2010", which I am stressing, an economic recovery, "and began with its application. In accordance with this programme, at its extraordinary session of 26 and 30 August 2010, and on the Rebalancing of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 The Croatian Parliament has decided," there I agree with Mrs Antunovic, not the opposition but the majority, "that the total level of expenditure of the state budget in '11. and '12. the year will not increase" etc., etc. So the emphasis in this part of the argument concerns precisely economic recovery. If there's something in this government, we don't need to switch, but let's be objective, if something this government hasn't done, then it's economic recovery. And now it's supposed to be going even into the government's reconstruction, okay, let's go, based on the destroyed and burned countries, don't go unfortunately to the elections and the elections should go. But, gentlemen, I can't have this team in power with that law on freezing expenses tied their hands since the Parliament's seditions, I took it in the boxes, I haven't read it, I have to admit it, but I've heard that it's supposed to change the 2/3 majority. Well, you can't fool around like that. I'd say with my own credibility and our own. Gentlemen, speaking of recovery, the emphasis of this argument has been reduced from August 2009 to August 2010 by 102 thousand. I also read, in three years from 2008 to 2010, 80,000 jobs were lost in the industry. The credit rating houses of Croatia here are correcting clearly to worse credit ratings. The President of the European Central Bank, do not correct me, correct him, orders that Croatia crashes into disaster, which we know without it. And the question is how will it be there in the 4th, 5th month, will we be able to get to the exchanges and how it will be with the payment of the loans due? Apparently, I'm reading, the government's advisors have no influence on her. I don't know if that's true. And now let's let it all go, but in such circumstances, I'm afraid it will really be no more theoretically than unfortunately lower and wages, and it's obvious from this proposal that there will be lower pensions, even though I said and explain that theoretically they can and will grow. The only happiness for the employees at this point is that they are in the public sector. I'm sure nothing will change, but elsewhere I'm afraid, especially in industry, trade, crafts, there will be a battle for naked survival. And happiness is also that at this point Mr. Rohatinski manages to hold a course of kuna at 7.4. To get back to my pensions. Mrs Antunovic said the average pension is 2164 kuna. Whoever's been working for 40 years has over 60% compared to the average salary. In 2009, the number of pensioners was 55% higher than those over 65. In 1988 let go of that time we had 585179 pensioners. Today, almost a million 180, or then the ratio of 3.6 workers, one pensioner. It's one to one today. I don't know a million or 450,000 employees. Planned expenditure for 2010 The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute 34.61 billion kuna contributes to 20 billion kuna waste. The old pension is received at 29 years and one month, defenders 18, HVO 8 years and 5 months, privileged pensions of the president etc. MPs, ministers' 36 years, 505 people are here. Exactly, there was also an absurdity mentioned by Mrs Antunovic. For example, NOB fighters who went up 5% when they retired. Now, with a correction under the allegations of preferential pensions, they have lost or have been stripped of 10%. It's not fair, but it is. The issue of contributions is also the reason for the pension, but larger contributions may add to the economy. No one would stand for it, and that is why I do not stand for it, although sooner or later we are likely to engage in this reform. Croatia's first pillar stands out 15%, second pillar 5%. That's 20%. Slovenia total 24.35%. Slovakia less than 18%, Czech Republic 28%, Hungary 33.5%. So less than Croatia stand out Slovakia and Poland, and all others more or less. It's a conclusion. I'm sure the pay's going to fall. Prices will rise. It's enough to mention gasoline, but good thing I'm supposed to be cynical, pensioners still driving cars. Gas jumps up. What are they supposed to be heating up? Cigarettes have already gathered. What they should smoke when they cause cancer. Today, Mr. Kukurin said that the County of Istria should be more cancer-stricken. I absolutely agree with him, but he didn't mention that the most cancer is caused by cigarettes, and that there's a monopoly...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63365	Thank you very much, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63366	... andextreme profit, so you might as well take part in solving these adverse consequences yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63367	Comrade Cain, thank you very much. Get off the phone. Correction of incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinković. Let's stick to the line. You can't do this anymore! [[Invader Cain: I'm just about to finish.]] Well, God's people!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to correct the quote of fellow Caine who says that the reason for this law is childish. It's incorrect, the explanation is justified, justified, consistent moment. But it's interesting that in your explanation, you're referring to some kind of weapon, and it's cold. Well, you're the one who shoots at everything and everything, and you don't give God collateral sacrifices. Otherwise, there is one saying of the people that anyone can criticize, and only an expert can boast. I don't want you in any category, because you're my fellow advocate who shoots flat and without silencer with the fact that the difference in decibels before noon is as low as I've noticed, and the evening is a little higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63369	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in this sub-region of Caine's incorrect allegations, I'd like to correct a few. In fact, he was talking about NOB fighters increasing 5%, and then reducing 10%, but also in the Croatian budget, the item for monetary allocations for these needs, so NOB fighters are constantly growing even though it has been 65 years since World War II. Furthermore, when Mr. Cain talks about the Republic average, I don't know what he's talking about. I guess it's a state average, not a republican average. Furthermore, he's talking about Mr. Rohatinski's course. It's a kuna course. Right, Mr. Cain? So, there's more of them, but it's bright red, so I won't go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63371	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63372	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. This bill proposes a temporary one, and I stress the temporary suspension of pension harmonisation for 2011. Given that, in accordance with the Pension Insurance Act, pensions are brought into line with economic developments, and this should be repeated once more. I think that's what the secretary of state said by changing their current value twice a year, based on half the rate of salary growth and half the rate of consumer prices for the previous half-year. In practice, the coordination in general also meant an increase in pensions. However, there have been negative developments and indicators this year, so in both the first and the second part of 2010, gross wages fell for example for the first six months 0.5% and in this second part around 0.4%. It was also in this first part and consumer prices dropped by 0.2% so that for the first half of 2010 pensions would fall by 0.35% while in the second half consumer prices increased by 1%, which would normally lower pensions and would fall by 0.05%. As the suspension of pension harmonisation for 2010 was established by the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, it was precisely such a delay that pensions were prevented from being reduced, their reduction for these percentages that I was talking about. The temporary suspension of pension harmonisation concerns two reasons. The first decision of the Croatian Parliament is that there is no increase in the expenditure of the state budget and such a decision has been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this Parliament has accepted it. And normally this is to implement Croatia's economic recovery programme to keep the expenditure of the state budget at the level of 2010. The second reason is that in the case of negative wage and consumer price trends, what I was talking about just before it was in practice this year, pensioners will not be reduced but will remain at the same level as the suspension of pensions are covered by all pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act and special pension insurance regulations, meaning all those paid by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. This delay is of temporary character, I will point out once more, and it is only valid for 2011, and it will achieve certain savings in the state budget. In the end, I think it should be pointed out once again, that according to the 2011 state budget, there will be no reduction in pensions, and no salary, as well as other social contributions as we have had the opportunity to hear here from those who are about to know what will be, if they will be. But I think there is one more thing to stress, that in the year of the biggest economic and financial crisis, which has caused global social unrest and that, even in our neighbouring countries, but also beyond, in France, and in Spain, and in Latvia, Belgium, and in Slovenia at the end, etc., in Croatia at no time have the wages or pensions been reduced and paid in time. Therefore, this government should not stress the creation of false illusions, but it is not even a disasterer, as some MPs aimly do, which will spread pessimism and scare citizens, but has been responsible for dealing with social and economic problems and therefore brings such temporary measures, but which are normally not popular for a short time, but will therefore give positive results in the long term. The government should also say that no matter how many individuals there were named, it did not scurry either with the International Monetary Fund or with the World Bank, so on the trail, it did not cut the wages, nor cut the social benefits, as the government at the head was unilaterally implementing, the coalition government headed by the SDP when they were in power. They cut salaries, frozen salaries then, then disrespected the social rights of workers at the time of 2002, when inflation was 4% in Croatia. And it should also be pointed out that this particular government did not sell the state silver that the government was doing, and I don't need to recapture the businesses are working on, but I think that this and the birds on the branch know how many times we've repeated it from this pay phone, just to finance that deficit of the state budget and spending. And so, you know those pensioners that you're so sorry about today, you could pay back the debt of that money for selling that silver, but you didn't do it, that's what this government liked to spend. That's why gentlemen of the former dignitaries, I think you're too early to wear masks, because the costumeball hasn't started yet, and be what you were when you were in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63373	Thank you. One correction, Vice-President of House Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63374	I only wish to correct the incorrect claim on the results and purpose of the application of the Special Tax Act. It has been repeatedly repeated that the Special Tax Act has saved pensions from reductions. It is true that the Special Tax Act has reached between 4 and 6% of the salaries of those lucky people who have a job and who make it with decent employers who pay them salaries that are not rich at all. He covered their salaries, reduced their standard of living and living opportunities, and for the sole reason to patch up the gaps, the long-standing continuing failures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has led to a significant crisis by the state budget, the country and the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63375	For the club of independent representatives, Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Now whenever it comes to harmonisation, it's always meant to grow, or increase in pensions, because they were economic indicators, where we think of the rise in wages and consumer prices on the rise, although I don't remember a very big increase in pensions so far, I remember cuts, I remember freezing, now we're a little bit more surprised, and it's a pity that this debate in the pre-election period in the year before the election, when we think too much about our points, and too little about how we get out of all of this. Unfortunately, the forecasts for economic recovery which are very much the basis of this law for next year are quite different, so I will repeat some more little information that says what the economic crisis means for pensions and pension systems. At the Croatian Pension Insurance Office in September, million 517 thousand 737 insurance companies, million 192,000 921 pensioners. Relation of the number of pensioners and insurance companies 1:1,27. And the average pension of 2 thousand 162 kuna 63 June, if we took from that number those high and privileged then this data would be even harder. In most European Union countries, employment and pensioner ratios are more favourable. In Germany, at 100 pensioners, there are 380 insurance companies, in Italy 100 pensioners 210 insurance companies, in Hungary 100 pensioners per 250 insurance companies. Even in less developed countries than our ratio, it is more favourable, which means of course for payment and easier. I'm going to remind you of a PULS survey, although all of them as advocates who meet with their citizens very well, and we know very well, 60% of the pensioners live exclusively from their pensions, 12% of them are doing part-time jobs or the most fortunate of them have some savings from the bank, and a quarter of them have to rely on the help of children or relatives, which is, of course, extremely difficult, and in this time, extremely insecure, and last year, the highest number of users of premature retirement pensions has increased as much as 20%, and in the first half of this year another 12%. Looks like it's a way of solving extra workers. The crisis therefore reduces the number of insurance companies, and the number of pensioners increases. A large number of unemployment, the dependence of the older population on the working population, is therefore increasing. Risks are also increasing, and analysts from the Economic Institute point out significant risks to future economic developments due to extremely weak investments, relatively low export growth that points to a competitive problem, and a lack of measures to boost competitiveness. In such a situation, future growth primarily relies on the growth of personal consumption, which can prove problematic in the conditions of high uncertainty about the future movement of unemployment and the adverse economic climate. I have to say it's not about something that's only worth Croatia. Many critics warn that Croatia is more slowly coming out of the crisis than some country in our neighbourhood, our environment. However, I remind you that Croatia entered the crisis a little later. Of course, the best thing most European countries have is compliance with the cost of living, according to prices, and less rarely with wages. I'll draw attention to some more calculations. When we count what the average pension rate in the average net salary was, I'll go to the calculation from August 2010 when it was 5,391 kuna, so the pension was about 40%. Of the countries in the region and the neighbourhood are the most pensions in Slovenia, followed by Croatia and Montenegro, Serbia and ultimately Bosnia and Herzegovina. And when it comes to the ratio of wages and pensions, then Croatia stands worse than BiH. In the Federation of BiH, pensions account for 43% of the average wage of workers, in Croatia 2% less. According to such a calculation, pensioners in Serbia are in the most favourable position where pensioners reach 60% of the average wage of workers. Following Slovenia 61%, Montenegro with 54%. With Serbia on 100 pensioners of 136 insurance and BiH on 100 pensioners, 133 insurance workers. So a significantly better share. We will, of course, support this law because there is no other way to keep the budget. And I don't want to be ironic, but we're lucky that under these terms, pensions don't fall, we don't have to take them off, and we don't have a major budget crisis. The hardest of course will be those who have the least pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63377	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, and Mr. Mirovinski. They say this is a temporary decision, that this is a proposal for a Law on the Suspension of Retirement of Pensions for 2011 with the final bill of law, in fact a brief statement is the proposal for a law on the freezing of amounts, i.e. the amount of pensions in 2011. It is interesting how the Republic of Croatia with almost the same population or even greater than before the war, so 600,000 had pensioners at 4.5 million people who lived here today to have almost a million and 200 thousand pensioners. And if that relationship were employees, the number of persons employed by the number of pensioners I would say is disastrous and difficult to endure for any budget and any government of the Republic of Croatia. What contributed to this was that we had this number of pensioners, and we were still able to disburse the pension fund, move the disabled workers to another category, actually put them in an unequal position, and they were together before, so in retirement, so the calculation was done in the Peace Fund, that's a question that would require, I would say, a whole day's debate. I have warned from this pay phone before about the payment of non-retirement pensions in the Republic of Croatia. I also have several counties of Slavonian lists, so one significant number of people who receive non-retirement pensions, and that amount at the level of the state of Croatia is the amount, the cash amount of non-retired pensions is more than 100 million kuna. So somewhere around 120 million kuna. And from year to year, as the Peace Fund report is submitted, that item of over 100 million kuna is almost not being reduced. They say this is a temporary decision, I would almost say that given the entry into the EU, in the provisional state, because we Croats win the war, and somehow losers do not know in peace, it seems we do not know how to manage our country well, which we have acquired in blood and created. Let's just remember to mark the memory of Vukovar three days ago. So in such a situation where pension funds are being filled, and it amounts to 35 million kunas, so 20 billion out of contributions, and 15 billion out of the budget. This item of 15 billion kuna from the Republic of Croatia budget is slightly climbing and increasing. This means that pension funds are filling up less than would be expected. It is clear that what was, but only partly, said Mr. Cain when he talked about the situation in the real sector, in production, in creating added value which would then clearly fill, that the better situation, was filling and pension funds. However, this government has decided to freeze, thus spending on €122 billion, and in doing so, retaining almost all rights and social benefits, so in the same ratio, even though it was possible to find, as I said, non-performing pensions that might have avoided such a measure or a law on freezing pensions for 2011. Namely, by a certain control, by revising some social rights, there would be a lot of reasons for the elements that also certain social rights do not belong. So if such an audit and control were to add all this together without talking about the money that went missing in crime and corruption, we shouldn't, so if we were to use it to supplement the pension fund, then we shouldn't pass a bill like this. It is constantly stressed here that such a decision was made by the Croatian Parliament. That's not true. The Croatian Parliament has not made such a decision he has decided to keep the expenditure at the same height but has not made a decision to freeze pensions at the same height. Therefore, a certain redistribution in that expenditure party, a certain control and revision could have avoided such a decision and the law could have been avoided. In this material, therefore, which we have on the benches clearly states that pensions are determined, that their current value is changed twice a year based on half the rate of salary growth and half the rate of consumer prices growth, or how it is liked to say consumer baskets in the previous half-year, so twice a year, the calculation of pensions is done. Immediately thereafter, in this same paper, in the case of negative movements of these indicators, coordination would lead to a reduction in pensions. Because those provisions of the Pension Insurance Act speak of harmonisation, not an increase in pensions. Does this really mean that the government doesn't count on the increase in gross social product, that the government doesn't count on a rise in wage growth and whether that means it and that consumer prices or baskets will remain at the same height even though none of us here and not in the general public believe, because we know from day to day how prices move, and they move in the upward path. Since this proposal for a law has two articles that are more than clear that the applicant has decided to freeze the level of pensions that are for 50% of the pensioners in the Republic of Croatia below the social minimum below 2200 kuna, and given the expected inflation and price increase, the stagnation of the economy and the overall crisis with that corruption that destroys this society and the state, the HDSB Club cannot accept and will not accept such a legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63379	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63380	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. What is the difference between this bill and 1993 and the government regulation. As a consequence of the pensioners in Croatia, the only difference is that in 1993 the government froze pensions by a regulation, and this government came before us to the Parliament to do so instead of us. And because of that regulation in 1993, there was this huge debt that we've been dealing with for the past 10 years how to repay billions and billions of kuna to Croatian pensioners. Since the same procedure will be applied this time for 2011, but this time by Law, the Constitutional Court will not be able to decide that pensioners whose pensions are 2.5 years old and possibly longer will be frozen power at any time will be compensated. That's the only difference. The explanation of this bill that was extremely brief impressed me, I must admit that this clear explanation, "rarely" when we can see it in the bill. First, the government explained that the freezing of pensions would result in certain savings in the State budget, quote certain savings. It is amazing that no one in the Ministry of Finance, the economy, could even calculate the amount of those savings. Prognosis, as has often been the case so far. So the government doesn't know how many pensioners will be deprived of their pension rights under the General Peace Act. But that wasn't enough. It further states that, on the other hand, in the case of negative wage trends and consumer prices, pensions are guaranteed at the existing level. What message is that? Now, look, we're actually protecting you by freezing your pensions, it says here that this bill on freezing pension growth, the government actually protects the pensioners, because it could happen, according to the government's interpretation, that prices on a little bit of a decline and wages fall so much that they should cut pensions. Smart enough. We heard from Minister Shuker last week, as well as the prime minister, who kept saying that the government, and I am correcting the taxpayers, from the State budget this year, and next year they have to give 15 billion kuna to the pension system so that pensions can be paid. Who's to blame for missing 15 billion kunas in the pension system? Is this the fault of those who went into full - time retirement or may it be the blame of those who went to early age with a 39 - year - old average as the official data shows? Who bit into the foundation of retirement insurance? Who put hundreds and hundreds of thousands of pensioners into the pension system, which are not the result of the paid contribution? I heard the government formed a task force with the task of making drafts of order in the pension system. I would love to at least at one session of that task force to be, to listen to how much consent there is in that it is necessary to finally apply the rule that nothing paid out of retirement insurance cannot be unless it is based on years of insurance and paid contributions. Or that the Croatian state must finally admit to itself first, that in the pension system we have too many of those and too many of those who exercise their rights without therefore paying for insurance. Such a bill certainly sends a second message, that in the next year there will be nothing to discuss seriously the problems of the second pillar of pension insurance. The problem of the second pillar's pensioners, as a cracked balloon, will appear in 2012 and 2013, and then again some assembly of the Parliament and some government will have to invent how to damage them, so we'll have Appendix 2, I guess, because this Appendix number 1 that we introduced to pensions was a patching up the gaps of a terribly large number of pension system failures adopted back in 1998. Or may someone in that public group dare say that in Croatia there are also citizens who work and receive full pay and half a pension. They are a special category allowed by someone, even employed by the state administration in the ministries at the functions of state secretaries, assistant state secretaries, chiefs of service and different resolutions, working for the salaries of 15, 16 thousand kuna and earning and receiving at least 50% of pensions. They receive salaries from the state budget and receive pensions, and the state has to patch up the pension system. And nothing to anyone. And then they say the government has to give 15 billion to pay for pensions. The government does not give taxpayers, and the government has to redistribute that money from the budget to the pension system, because for 7 years, it has not listened to a warning that we can neither politics nor elections, nor the pension system leads in a way that when a problem arises, invents new pensions users, and even when it does not matter with pensions. And I hear we're about to discuss another interesting proposal that the government will refer to in the Parliament, according to which public deputies will be leased in outsourcing, to be cheap, the state will reduce the artificial number of employees and private repairers will collect cream from the money. So if that bill is already written somewhere in the government along with state-run deputies who are planning to put in the outsourcing then it would be good for Mr. Secretary of State to add two more paragraphs. To give these privileged categories from the pension system in outsourcing and perhaps to consider item 2 that all ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be in the outsourcing programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63381	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63382	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, you wondered who was to blame for the sudden retirement of so many people. You tried to transfer the main guilt to the government. You know who I think is most responsible for such a process? In Croatia, employers, entrepreneurs and quasi entrepreneurs have. Entrepreneurs engage their capital and try to fertilize it, and quasi entrepreneurs acquire other people's capital, devastate it and try to destroy everything that comes under their hands. Quasi entrepreneurs led to this process. They took thousands and thousands of companies into bankruptcy, devastated companies, stopped manufacturing, sold property, transferred money to a jury account abroad, took companies into bankruptcy, employees on the road, and that led to the sudden retirement. They ignored a man, those of profit and money don't see a human face at all. They don't care. And the pumpkins brought Croatia into this state and so many thousands of people brought to the stock market prematurely. As for the second pension stake, the best way to go was to manage pension funds that earned nearly 2 billion kunas. And the only thing they did was keep the same value they got 27 billion kuna in 8.9 years or maybe a little fell. And it is time for their compensation to be changed and reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63383	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63384	Comrade Maric, I must admit that I have long sought the name of such entrepreneurs. You called them quasi entrepreneurs. I usually prefer to call entrepreneurs capitalists, because it is the right expression and it is positive that we have in Croatia and that word and as many honest and rich capitalists as possible. But I wouldn't call these others quasi entrepreneurs. It's such a pretty name for them. These are criminals who used different situations, positions and relationships actually really made a fortune at the expense of workers but also of the state, because in the end they would have to pay for the social and pension system and you're right there. However, this has been going on for almost 18 years, and in this Economic Recovery Programme, I haven't found any proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to stop them, you've called them Quasi-entrepreneurs, and I'm going to tell the true criminals who really come into possession of huge assets, the workers are fired, first of all theft, fired and then they're on the burden of the state. And with the second pillar of pension insurance, I agree with you, the only ones who have benefited from the second pension pillar are pension insurance administrations with enormous profits, salaries and credits, and the total value of the second pillar is not actually preserved but has fallen. I just want to correct that for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63385	At 11.39, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63386	Now, will the pensioners, when HDZ and coalition partners vote this bill, be it easier or harder? Will they get better or worse? The coordination has been carried out so far and is still in the existing law, according to the Swiss formula. So half to the price rise, half to the cost of living. It is cynical to now argue here in the reason that in the case of negative indicators of wage growth and consumer prices harmonisation would lead to a reduction in pensions because those provisions of the Pension Insurance Act speak of harmonisation rather than an increase in pensions. This concern is touching for pensioners that the government is expressing, so it is afraid that if wages fall and prices fall so that pensions can fall. Well, you could have protected the pensioners from that danger in a way that changed the Pension Insurance Act and said pensions would be harmonised if the price and salary rises and will not be reduced if prices and wages fall. If that's why you're here, why haven't you changed the Pension Insurance Act? Who's defending you. So, definitely, the pensioner's position is gonna get tough, but why don't you say so? Why, the pensioners are now, as many as 11.52 are not working, probably watching this transfer of Parliament, why don't you go out to those pensioners and tell the people, it'll be harder for you. Because will the pensioner be able to buy the same amount of goods as today in a year's November 21st, 2011 when you freeze them? He won't, because he collects everything. They have to be warmed up, and the gas accumulates. So they have to pay for those heating bills if they're gonna heat up. And pensions are frozen. So what's it gonna be? But why don't you go out there, instead of spinning these two articles of the law and talking like a colleague of Kunst about Racan's government, why don't you go out and honestly tell those people while HDZ is in power, that's at least this year as you plan to be, the pensioners will be harder because that's what the HDZ government wants. Maybe he won't, but he doesn't know any other orphans. He can't do anything else, so he freezes his pension. This is actually a continuation, an extension of the harrassors because this Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, which the people rightly called the Harraser, has suspended the harmonisation of pensions. Harac has been abolished, so a new replacement law is being passed for the harac that will continue to put an end to harmonisation. There's no alignment. You know, one number of pensioners voted for HDZ, we all know that. Today, they too experience the achievement of their ideals for the second time. Once upon a time, they had lived in '93. when it was when you had already frozen your pensions once and created a debt to the pensioners. Now, as a victory of hope for experience, they have voted for HDZ again and are experiencing the same thing again. It is unfortunate that those pensioners who did not vote for HDZ must share their fate. And their pensions will be frozen, and they will live harder, and they will have less, and their purchasing power will be less. And they didn't choose you, they didn't give you a mandate to play so cruelly with their lives. 90% of the pensioners have pensions below the poverty line, and now they have this miserable coordination that monitors the cost of their lives now and you end it. What are these people going to live on, how they're going to live on, is that what you're wondering at all? Do you not find savings in the budget on anything else or on anyone else, but on them the poorest? So you have to live off those miserable pensions of 2600 kunas from 1st to 1st. How are these people gonna live? So ask yourselves that instead of talking about Racan's government. At the time of the Racan government, Minister Vidovic knows better than I do, pensions have increased, 30% realistically, and you pensioners know that. They don't need Boris Kunst to explain it to them, they know who were then retired how much their pensions increased. And that no statement by Boris Kunst or anyone else in HDZ can undo it because people know it, as they will now know, that because of you, because of this government all year, another year in a row, they will lose their pensions. They will remain at last year's level, despite rising prices. You know, pensioners may not even care if it's a salary increase, God forbid it is, but they have to go to the store every day, they have to pay the directories, they have to, and now you're denying them that minimum increase, minimum, so much to follow the cost of life. Minimumly, to stay, realistically to stay at this level of poverty they are at. No, now they're pushing themselves deeper into that poverty. So they're pushing themselves into total misery. Now, there's probably going to be a big title, and maybe even photos of all the MPs, so they're going to write an article and these are people who have made life difficult for the pensioners, so I'm saying no because of the public. Let our photographs in this article not be published because we are against this Law, we are against this Law, we will not vote for it. If the SDP were in power, pensioners, if the SDP were in power, such a law would never come into the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63387	Thank you. Three corrections. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst first.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63388	Thank you very much. Well it's incorrect what counterpart Stazic said, he says while HDZ's governments will be harder for pensioners. Well, fellow Stazic when you are already so socially sensitive to pensioners why at least those poor people or at least those pensioners who voted for the SDP if you share them that some have voted for HDZ, and you have good connections don't allow these people to be poor with their humble pensions that are not measured by your salary flying under the same conditions as you on Brijuni for 7 kuna a day because they can't afford it from their pensions as you can from your salary. So, come on, give these people a summer with you seven kunas on Brijuni in Vangica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63389	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63390	Thank you, Mr. President. I haven't heard such a hypocritical debate in a long time, but every time a fellow Stazic shows up, we get a chance to hear it again. I'll make it right, but I can't make it all complete, and why can I say one thing, that you speak one thing, the other you think, and the third you do. As long as this government and this HDZ say they're not doing well, they're worried and socially sensitive, you're going to order in the Kuk tomorrow, there in your Kastava tracks, this government will pay for it, yes. It's fortunate that this people know and recognize. Luckily, the pensioners who live know what it's all about, they know about the rebalancing, they know about the budget. Luckily because they know who didn't vote for it, they know who's calling the IMF, and they know what that means. Well, you guys just have fun tomorrow, enjoy yourselves. It's very nice there. You live on from their commercials. Say one thing, think the other, and you'll be working for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63391	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63392	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I join these corrections which my colleagues said, that my colleague Stazic had said while HDZ in power to the pensioners would be more difficult. Falsely, while HDZ is in power, pensioners will receive pensions regularly and in time as they get. It's a responsible approach as well. And it's also surprising your approach a short time ago when we talked in this House about a sustainable pension system. You were against it again. So this is too serious a subject to have arguments, but there should be coverage, and HDZ in that part behaves responsibly. In addition to that, he tells the pensioners and everyone else where the problem is being considered properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63393	Mr. Representative Stjepan Mršić. Here you go. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Zvonimir Mristic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63394	If you meant me then, did you mean me? Well, thank you very much. [[Intruder Shakespeare: you.]] Okay. So here today we are really talking about one of the most sensitive topics for the citizens of Croatia. It is the largest population in Croatia. So almost a million and 200 thousand Croatian citizens are retired. These were the people who worked, worked from a few years to a full-time job and over 40 years, who paid taxes in their working life so that public needs could be met in the Pension Fund so that pensions could be paid, which were built by factories so that they could be privatised, which created other public goods so that we could use these public goods today. Unfortunately, nearly 80,000 of our fellow citizens cannot live on their contribution to local or national communities. Nearly 800,000 of our citizens each day must think very seriously about how they will redistribute their modest pension. And retirement is something that the community should pay back to those same people who paid taxes and contributions during their working life. And now of course we hear here on the one hand that there's no money, and on the other hand we're saying that we need to have sensitivity and understanding for these people. But let's look at what the state budget looks like next year, so let's see if there's any money in that state budget for what we're talking about and what we stand for. So, almost as a mantra, we have a statement that pensioners don't need to worry because they'll get paid pensions like it's some kind of special credit. Well, I guess the state exists to meet its citizens' obligations. So how could it even occur to someone that pensions should not be paid or that those same pensions should not be paid in time? And if that's something we exist for, then I think we're on the wrong track. But you see, if we could guarantee those pensioners or at least part of them that next year their pensions are going to rise by 3%, that's about a billion and 150 million kuna. Just as much will be paid more for the interest next year than it was paid this year. So instead of raising pensions to the pensioners by 3%, we're going to have a fat geese called the bank spread their necks for another billion 150 million kuna or 7%. And it should also be said openly that you see pensioners in order to pay off your pensions we have to raise a loan and on that loan we have to pay the banks interest from 6 and a half to 7% and we don't have for your 3% to increase your pension, but we're going to freeze your pension, and what we should give you as an increase in your pension we're going to give your banks to increase their profits. With next year's budget, many rub their hands, some have golden hands, and banks and pensioners rub their hands. Banks rub their handles because they will receive a billion 150 million extra profits, and pensioners will have to rub their hands in order to warm up, as counterpart Stazic said absolutely certain they will collect gas, it is almost certain that they will collect electricity during the following year. You know to freeze something, we here now propose to freeze pensions, it needs electricity. She'll obviously pick it up next year. And now, in order not to just exhaust ourselves in criticism, I strongly propose to the Croatian government, okay, there is no money, and for the current pensions we need to raise a loan, but let's at least make life easier for our pensioners. Croatian electricity is owned by the Republic of Croatia, let's share the pensioners' vouchers that part of their electricity bill next year can pay them with these securities. This does not mean the government's spending next year, because we can date these vouchers to 2012, 2013 or I don't know which year, and... We can pay for this from the future hep owned by the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Therefore, we can make life easier for pensioners, and we will not at the same time increase the expenditure from the state budget for this pension increase, it will not be nominal in money, it will be in some rights or opportunities for more quality pensioners to live. It doesn't even have to be that voucher as big as we gave the voucher to TLM when we bought him the electricity we bought 100 and I don't know how much dollars we sold half as cheap. But if TLM was important to us strategically, nationalally, because of the preservation of a number of jobs, then I think that we as the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are also important pensioners, at least 800 thousand living on the poverty threshold, and that at least as much as we were willing to give to TLM, for example, in the following year we can achieve and provide rights to pensioners who I repeat are not the expenditure of the state budget, but can be charged from future income, i.e. profits that will achieve this same HEP. Here's a very concrete proposal, and I would really like it if the government were to refer to it, so let's see if that proposal will not be accepted, which will be spent by the government next year, or spent the next years on the profits that the HEP will achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63395	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mrs. Representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63396	Thank you, Mr. President. This is a brilliant pre-election speech was, excellent, but I don't know how you didn't think of it before, Mršić. But I'd like you to do something else, and I'd like to correct you in your section of government and government, why the government isn't. The city of Zagreb has about 900 thousand inhabitants, I think the largest number of pensioners. So why don't you ask the SDP is in power 100% have collected municipal fees, so Holding, that I don't again speak the salaries of Holding raised etc., why don't you ask yourself that the highest cut, why don't you think about the pensioners and their parents that they are grandparents whose children can't go to kindergartens anymore, because in the budget of the city of Zagreb don't have any more money for that. I mean, why aren't you so inventive, so smart when you were supposed to solve the problems of the city of Zagreb, which certainly have the most residents, the most pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63397	Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63398	Your colleague Mršić said, quote: The government has decided we will not increase pensions because we will increase bank profits for this amount. You put into correlation two variables as if it were a ratio of supply and price, which is an offer higher price lower, which are pensions less profit banks. The variable to obtain the banks and the variable of pension levels are not in the same correlation that directly affect each other or have such an addiction as some other variables, it simply cannot have a foothold of any kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63399	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. So here is actually in line with the strategic plan of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the vision of the Pension Insurance Office is among other things the organisation of work and the continuous improvement of the quality of services of users. In doing so, professional and ethical rules apply, with a reduction in the overall cost of business, with a view to proper, meaningful, efficient and economic availability of budgetary resources. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has drawn up a expenditure plan for 2011-2013, which is in line with the established limits of total expenditure. The total expenditure of the Pension Insurance Institute for 2011 was planned at 35 billion and 722 million kuna and increased by 136 million kuna compared to the 2010 plan. Therefore, the new pensioners will in no way be threatened or eventually abolished for their acquired rights. It is also important to say that the expenditures for 2012, that the planned funds are higher by 204 million kuna, and for 2013 are higher by slightly less than 6 hundred and 90 million kuna. Last week, the 2011 budget was discussed and all of this was entered into the budget, and tomorrow we will accept it. It should also be said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia presented the Economic Recovery Programme in May of this year and started implementing it, and in line with the programme, the Croatian Parliament decided to increase the overall level of expenditure for 2011 and 2012 at an extraordinary session in August for the rebalancing of the State budget for 2010, not to increase the total expenditure for 2011 and 2012. The proposal of the Rescheduling of Pensions Act refers to the following year as we had the opportunity to hear. It, once again, guarantees the safety of our pensioners that their pensions will not be reduced. In practice, harmonisation meant a steady increase because economic indicators were on the rise, but at the moment of negative economic indicators, harmonisation would lead to a reduction in pensions because the provisions of the law speak of harmonisation rather than an increase in pensions. Therefore, this postponement of pension harmonisation also in 2011 ensures that there is no increase in the expenditure of the state budget and guarantees for pensioners the stability of their pensions. In the case of negative wage trends and consumer prices, our pensioners will not receive less pensions than they will remain at the same level. During this morning's debate, we could hear a lot of replaced thesis. But I didn't want to engage in a way to correct incorrect allegations. However, one thing I actually have to comment on because she presented a huge surprise for a guy who would have thought to interpret that pensions would not be late, that they would be paid regularly? I hope and I am convinced that both Croatian citizens and our pensioners as well as socially threatened have not forgotten that in 2001 during the coalition government of the late Mr Racan there were huge delays in payments and pensions, social aid, maternity benefits and for more than 20 days a month. This proposal concerns all pensions made by the basis of the law, which is paid by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. It contributes to the social security of pensioners and pensioners in Croatia and also guarantees the stability of the state budget, and all of these are reasons why I will support the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63401	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63402	My colleagues and colleagues, I will look back when it comes to this law on what is stated here as a consequence or effect of the adoption of this law, and I hope to show, at the very least, that it is very dubious, and that it is certainly hypocritical to give an explanation such as is given in the proposal for the adoption of this law. Here, let me tell you what this is about. First, the financial effects of this law are nothing. In your explanation, you say that the suspension of pension coordination will result in certain savings in the state budget. You don't even say how much savings, you say certain savings. This particular savings means that so much less will be incomed into the budget because any lip that pensioners receive is not spared, is not put aside because they have nothing to save from but goes into consumption. In a country whose budgets, whose GDP is actually dependent on spending, canceling this legal obligation to pensioners means leaving a budget without income to be alimony from increased consumption, the VAT means. In other words, the people say, "He gets on the bridge." He takes on the chalice. You'll take it here, but you won't get what you'd get by spending. Therefore, the financial effects will certainly be none when it comes to this bill. In that sense, he is completely unnecessary and the real question is why are you proposing him? Obviously, that effect will not be achieved, so any more written economist and layman can calculate that the savings will not happen to you. Didn't you have an example of the crisis tax that showed you that you were what was taken from the salary that you didn't get from the other side into the budget? Wrong argument, wrong approach. Social effects are taken away from the poor, for those who are poor, so that they may continue to be poor. The pensioners represent the risk group for poverty in the Croatian state. Eight hundred thousand pensioners are receiving a pension under three thousand kuna. To leave them 3 years without matching it means to take their real 10% worth of their pension. That's about how much less they're going to make than what the law guarantees them. It is mentioned here, gentlemen, in the '90s when laws were passed that did not comply with pensions led to the Constitutional Court having to rule, and then in a few laws, three even laws, to resolve the issue of debt. The difference between those and you is that they only did it without writing any law, changing it, and you're changing it. And nothing else. You're just legalizing what led to the creation of debt to pensioners in the '90s. But something in favor of those. In the '90s, Croatia was arming itself, it was at war, and the pensioners agreed to give up for a while what belonged to them by law because they saw the purpose of that denial. This time there's no point. The effect is that we will make this vulnerable social group even more vulnerable. However, there is one group of effects that I may not need to talk about because I should not be too concerned but it is very interesting and interesting. It's about the political effects of this Law. Please, it seems to me that you have inherited this law obviously within the party's struggle against Mrs. Kosor from the legacy of Eve Sanader, he is deeply against this authority. Why? First because Mrs. Kosor claims and promises that we're on our way out of the crisis, that the VAT will increase, that the wages will rise, and you say here, no, that's not going to happen. Why don't you believe Mrs. Kosor I can't understand it and trust her sincere beliefs and efforts to make things better, why you're working against her. Yours within a party conflict should be left for the party. The effect of this law, you know who it will be. This power is irresponsible, at a time when we had a coalition partner from HSU among the representatives of the pensioners, then we are..., now that we don't really care about the pensioners, it's a message that goes to the pensioners. Would you like it to be a political message from this government? It's not smart. This government is hypocritical, you say here first that you'll save, so then you say it's not up to us to save, it's up to us to preserve the pensioner's position. Which one of these arguments is worth it? Are you doing this to save the budget or are you doing it to protect the pensioners? Well, no one's half-witted enough to recognize hypocrisy in one of these reasons. The real effect and effect is the devastating political effect is the devastating transmission of an extremely bad picture of this government and I think that this mine that you've now planted on Mrs. Kosor with this law because you're not going to produce anything, it's not good to go over the back of the pensioners. I care less about the HDZ and your government as it will make an impression, which is the least of my worries, but I am concerned that you are carrying out your inner bickerings and attack on Mrs. Kosor through this law and across the back of the pensioners. This is not good, and that is why we will not and cannot support it primarily from these two groups, because there are no financial effects and because it has severe social consequences and an additional deterioration in the situation of pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63403	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this law, we have to be particularly sensitive because it's a group of people who have the least. A million and 200 thousand users who receive an average of 2162 kunas or translated 72 kunas a day and always have to ask the question why and how can there be an explanation that we want to save something on the continent of these people? On the continuum of people who have 72 kuna a day, this HDZ government saves and saves in the budget but does not save on other things when certain coalition needs need to be met, so sometimes MPs boast that they have won for their own sake as many or as many millions of kunas. It is commendable for these MPs, but when it comes to raising your hand to pay the pensioners for what the Law belongs to them, it is difficult to raise that hand. Then we'll say no to them they don't need 'cause 72 kunas a day is enough. We can't agree to that, and the SDP will never agree to that. And to tell you that Croatian pensioners and how they live in these last seven years, it is enough to see how much the percentage of the average pension rate of the average salary has fallen. In 2003, when a colleague Kunst likes to remember this ratio was 44.20% today, 40.12%, and since we don't have any data before the crisis tax was abolished, the percentage is probably still below 40%. So it's over 4% points or other words of the HDZ government that she held that trend took an average pensioner every month for about 250 kuna. She took them four days that now have to cover their monthly expenses. So, according to HDZ, the pensioner should not live 30 days a month but 26 days, and this 4 days he should stand in stand by mode and live off the air and that is what HDZ obviously says to Croatian pensioners. Unfortunately, this will continue as long as the policy is guided by how much time it takes for the budget and how many billions it takes for someone to subsidize here and how long it takes to satisfy a certain representative in any city or county. This should be put to the end and should be clearly told to these people that the savings in last year's budget or the next budget were made through their backs. Croatian pensioners will continue to pay what Croatian citizens have stopped paying crisis taxes, this law is a new form of crisis tax or pensioners will continue to pay. And as much money as it is, I'm sorry we didn't get such a projection from the Ministry of Economy, it's an average of 70 kuna per month, as much as it would be if that pension was coordinated next year with an assumed increase in wages, cost of life or around 850 to 900 million kuna per year, which would have to pay more to Croatian pensioners. A truly huge amount, for a million and 200 thousand people and I say some MP can boast how he earned 50 or 100 million kuna for his own hand. So a million and 200 thousand people aren't worth anything, but one hand is worth what it's worth. And that's what we clearly have to say here. It is not a problem for the HDZ government in two years, on interest, to pay about a billion and 600 million kuna in debts, and in 2011 another billion to that, it means 2012. 2.5 billion kunas more, it's not a problem for the HDZ government but 800 million kunas to coordinate pensions, millions and 200 thousand pensioners is a problem. So the priorities that you gentlemen in HDZ and coalition partners have chosen are absolutely guilty and I am convinced that all Croatian citizens see it. Because if that weren't the case, we'd be taking more care of these people. Unfortunately, it all comes down to paying for the ones he has the most, and the hardest ones live, and it is expected that next year he will not live well. But here the message is very clear, for Croatian pensioners and all others who live hard from their work, who do not get paid, and who work, whose wages are not enough to live, that such a situation and such injustice will soon begin to correct and that the pensioners will not be the ones when this government leaves who will bear the burden of saving in a kept budget that can be found in other paragraphs. So, of course, like other colleagues from the SDP club, they can't support this law. And I can only say that it is embarrassing that the people who have the least in this Croatia bear the greatest burden of crisis and ultimately live from day to day more difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63405	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. First Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63406	Mr. Vice President, it is an absolutely incorrect assumption that a colleague of Maras is worth 30, 40, 50 million kuna. It is clear as a day that Mrs Adlesic was not absolutely communicating on the value of her hand, but on the value of the project she nominated to help the Government of the Republic of Croatia determine this project. Projects are very important for every politician and they have their own nominal entire for which they will be implemented. Since you are alluding to pensioners with this aspect of the price of hands, I would ask you how much you used budget kunas when you were shopping in certain municipalities, cities and also in the Assembly for support in the past term?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63407	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63408	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The part was corrected by my colleague Djakic, and I would only continue with the fact that all MPs have taken up other election units, not just a colleague. And secondly, I would like to correct your statement that the priorities of this government are not citizens' priorities. On the contrary. With this budget, the government has shown that its priorities are for citizens to be provided in the following year for both salaries and pensions and social benefits. And when you were when you had a deficit of 5.2%, then what were you doing? During your government, you reduced your wages by 20%, and this government then had to pay six billion kuna after the verdicts that were set, because you were illegally working. And don't be hypocritical with these statements you're taking part in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63409	Replica Madam Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am listening to all morning my colleagues from the SDP decided to give me a replica of my colleague Maras and some questions to answer. Today's SDP debate in the assembly for me, and I think for the entire Croatian public, is nothing more than an advocacy to those who in this recession year are the hardest. So, those pensioners who have little pensions, those people who have lost their jobs, etc. I don't want to pick it up. It's nothing but courtship. And why is that? I will now support that it is all so as to claim and speak, then you fellow Maras as head of the SDP in the city of Zagreb, would not in this situation and in this recession time collect children's kindergartens up to 2 thousand kuna. It would not be for the pensioners because today you are full of the mouths of pensioners and pensioners who would not be deprived of their free transportation in the city of Zagreb, a colleague Maras is your jurisdiction and you should answer that. Today, pensioners in the city of Zagreb. And so are you when you were in power, and I must repeat that it is not forgotten, you have persistently denied the debt of the pensioners, headed by then Prime Minister Davorko Vidovic. You said there was no debt to the pensioners, that this perception was created in the Croatian public. But the HDZ government took responsibility and took it seriously that it was a debt to the pensioners, and the government respected and paid back the debt to the pensioners. I also need to speak to my colleague Maras on your griefs, so why don't you cut the cut 18% in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63411	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63412	To ease those who have low wages. Do so, then I will take you more seriously as a representative from the city of Zagreb, and I will take you seriously. All of this before this is unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63413	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63414	Thank you very much. Mrs. Solic, who created the debt to the pensioners knows everyone. It was created by HDZ governments in the '90s. But when you asked me about Zagreb, I can tell you here, I collect kindergartens in Zagreb want a candidate for the president of the Republic of Croatia who supported HDZ in the second round and the SDP of the city of Zagreb. Can you get some order in between your colleagues there?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63415	Sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63416	Use a little bell.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63417	Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63418	It'll ring soon, though. As for the SDP, be sure and we can tell all citizens here that the gatherings of kindergartens in the city of Zagreb will not be, while the SDP makes a decision in the town hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63419	Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go. Peace, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is after this interesting dialogue a few words about the Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2011 which I repeat and I will immediately say, so the law is proposed and passed for a certain period of time with the duration until 31 December 2011. It doesn't mean to scare the pensioners that he'll last forever. The current value of pensions has changed twice a year so far and has been aligned with the growth of wages and consumer prices. Until this year, it was exclusively about the possibility of increasing pensions. And as we heard from the Secretary of State's argument, if it had remained in force this way of harmonising pensions during 2010 due to the fall of indicators, changes in indicators on the bottom and wages and consumer pension prices would have been reduced by 0.05%. So it's not only the possibility of an increase, but in the case of changes in indicators and the possibility of a reduction in pensions, which has not occurred in 2010 due to legal changes. The coordination was suspended in 2010 and this law continues in 2011, with all the foundations of the Economic Recovery Programme, the restrictions on expenditure growth in the state budget and budgetary users. The suspension of pension growth coordination provides for the possibility of certain savings in the state budget in the event that pension growth indicators, the harmonisation of pensions experience growth, and this means wages and consumer prices. There is no fall in the case of wage decline, there is no pension drop in 2011 in the case of consumer prices, and the government has provided in the 2011 budget sufficient funds to continue regular pension payments to Croatian pensioners. It is incorrect that the government is saving in this way in the most vulnerable categories of our population, because we saw from the 2010 indicator that there are harmonisations and... no savings in the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, it should be said and reiterated what is seen from the debate, that the government has a socially sensitive view of the pensioners and has shown this already there in 2004 that it was bold to move beyond the SDP government to go ahead with the debt recovery of pensioners and successfully continue the programme. This is what Croatian pensioners know very well, and the message SDP sends to Croatian pensioners back several months is precisely the next SDP will make painful cuts for which this government does not have the strength, which means either reducing pensions and salaries or coming to the International Monetary Fund in Croatia. That's what Croatian citizens listen to, that's what Croatian citizens know, and we all know very well what would happen if the SDP came to power, to withdraw these painful cuts, and painful cuts are possible in such a way only by reducing pensions, reducing salaries or by arriving the International Monetary Fund. The Croatian Democratic Community and this government send a completely different message to Croatian pensioners, will continue to pay their pensions on a regular basis both so far and in the future for which funds have been secured in the 2011 budget and fully paid back to pensioners. Here are two completely different messages, and we will see which message Croatian pensioners will accept for the year when regular parliamentary elections are held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63421	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63422	Well, here's a colleague, it's true that the government is giving as much to pensioners as it can in view of the number of employees and the number of pensioners. And all the stories about keeping or increasing pensions, so first of all the pension increases are really adolescence to the pensioners and that's true. So, pure pre-election policy, that's clear. Even those who advocated the arrival of the IMF until the other day, the International Monetary Fund is now giving it up. It is not true that we are calling on them, and if calling on the IMF means denying rights and pensioners, so are the employees. So lower wages, lower pensions, lower social benefits and maximum savings. Well, we already have, and here I am listening today and unionists who clearly demagogue claim the same thing that should lower urgent taxes because tax cuts actually increase the competitiveness and pay increases of employees. So, if we cut taxes, it's going to be a normal payout problem that's getting bigger and bigger, and nobody's worried about it because everyone who talks is extremely well paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63423	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're 100% right. Today in Croatia, almost every other resident is a top economic expert, and this is what we are listening to today from the ranks of some so-called. experts in increasing income, reducing costs in the state budget, but the facts speak completely differently. Tomorrow we will vote on a budget that ensures the full regular payment of pensions to Croatian pensioners, tomorrow we will vote on a budget that fully provides the means for payment of salaries. Tomorrow, a budget will be voted upon that fully all social needs of Croatian citizens, of children, of births, of all other categories of those most sensitive satisfys, provides enough means for the very most vulnerable categories of the population of the Republic of Croatia. The expected economic growth, the expected implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, gives us the opportunity to think in the coming year about increasing certain expenditures in the state budget precisely for those most sensitive categories of population, and God forbid what we believe on this side at least. There can certainly be changes to this law and re-harmonisation of pensions to Croatian pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63425	Mr. Representative Luke Denon, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63426	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have been having a discussion for some time and we are sending messages about a law that has touched the most sensitive population of our citizens in a way that makes it impossible for them to coordinate pension growth with the cost of living, to short the story. Obviously, the explanation that we have for this law would be the assumption that in the coming days we will have a few more laws in this Croatian Assembly that will then limit or freeze the growth of wages that this does not happen and that, of course, will freeze consumer prices that do not rise either. Because if that's the case, then it should really make this government convincing. But we also sent a few messages. We have sent a message that, these days, we are reading, listening to justified or unwarranted optimism in how at least I understood in the post-crisis period, which means that in 2011 the HDZ government will obviously be better. And since the Government doesn't trust itself that it will be better, then there's a way for pensioners to have at least those costs of living and rising consumer prices, which is evident, that at least in that part, a little bit of it to be reconciled so that they can survive there in 2011. It's obvious that the HDZ government isn't on board either. But that's why we're sending them a message from this side of the assembly that it's social sensitivity, so here's the pensioners who are looking at us today to make sure that it's the social sensitivity of a ruling coalition that doesn't want to, that they don't want to reconcile their pensions with the price hike I'm asking the pensioners who are watching us now know that they've grown prices? Well, of course they know, they go to the store every day and they know the prices are up and their pensions aren't and they won't even up with that price hike. Who's to blame? So here we hear again from this side of the assembly that for such a situation there's about Racan's government. So, it turns out that the two mandates of the HDZ government are incapable of providing pensioners with a decent pension in such a way that they can live on that pension. What's he gonna get with this bill now? Well, it will be given in an explanation, it says, in practice is the harmonisation of a population increase in pension, and that would be because economic indicators, wage growth and consumer prices were on the rise. But since it is obviously not good for pensioners to be brought into line then it is argued that the postponement of this harmonisation in 2011 will result in certain savings in the state budget, which means that the HDZ Government is hypocritically saying that there will still be a price increase, that this part of the money that was due to this law should not be paid to our pensioners and that this will then be a savings in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Well, really, if in times like this, we're saving on pensioners, then you call it social sensitivity. I wouldn't call it that. I would say that this is extremely hypocritical, and that for that little money that the pensioners needed to coordinate their pensions this country would certainly not have failed and some funds would have been found elsewhere to make it happen. We hear, of course, that the budget provides both pensions and pensions and salaries. Of course, small pensions and less pay. There won't be a pension increase. So that's what your pensioners are provided with this budget. It's got a million and 250, a million and 300,000 pensioners as many as we have. About 250,000 civil servants have been secured as many as we have. But the other one, or I don't know how many real sector employees this government hasn't secured. So this government only cares about one third of its citizens, and it doesn't care about all its citizens. I assumed this government was all citizens, not just one citizen. And of course, in order for these pensions to be made or paid, so that the pensioners can hear it, and we know that the budget provides for a term of credit, bonding, a loan that someone has to repay. Well, in addition to the pensioners, we will give you certain pensions, even if they were small, even if you can't live well or you can't survive because we won't coordinate those pensions with the cost increase, we're sending another message. We place a burden on these parents and our grandparents, burdening them to have a guilty conscience. Because that debt has to be paid back. That debt will have to be paid back by their grandkids and we're putting that remorse on their shoulders, to tell their grandchildren that you're going to have to pay it back, because we're going to get it today. This means that we are eating our future, and this is not exactly some perspective for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And of course we heard about the debt, so I wouldn't say about the debt who created it, so who brought it back and who should have paid it back. But we've heard that there's a disproportionateity between pensioners and workers, as it is, that he's of course not good and that because few people do, and there's too many pensioners, and that's why the situation is the way it is, so pensions are small, they are. Now the question is, whose job was it to change this relationship? Racan's government. Two consecutive HDZ authorities should have found ways and opened up space to offer some new employment, to have more employees in the Republic of Croatia who would then pay their contributions and taxes in the way that this exists in all countries of the world. But he's looking at miracles and these little employees who work, we've heard they don't pay taxes, they don't contribute. Who made it possible for these employers not to pay this country on behalf of these citizens and that there is less money in pension and other systems. I'm sure it's Racan's government's fault that she did what this government and she government were unable to fix the system in a way that entrepreneurs who don't comply with the rules, the law and don't pay contributions and don't pay VAT to be simply shut down, that we're simply being prosecuted for it. But here's the HDZ government thinks it's not so good, because in any case, the easiest thing to do is to blame those who are gone, and we won't forget the two mandates so easily. And, finally, the question arises whether this law will do everything for the benefit of its citizens, as well as pensioners and pensioners. Is this Retirement Law going to make it better? Of course not, even though the HDZ wants you well, you won't be better off.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63427	Thank you. I invite MPs and deputies who are not in the hall to enter the hall because at 13.00 we will complete the agenda of this session, so I ask the MPs and MPs to start entering the hall. Four corrections to an incorrect quote. First Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63428	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the quote of a colleague who said that the HDZ government doesn't trust itself that it will be better. It's completely incorrect. This government really believes it will be better, and besides that, it has indicators. Here I will tell you, on Saturday I was with the Prime Minister in the Great Zdenci where production was seen to have increased, that increased exports to Slovenia 50%, to Macedonia, Serbia, to the east, that she had received the number for increasing exports to European Union countries, and other than that, if you saw in the wood industry, the trade balance increased to $170 million, last year was 30 million, exports were increased by 12% of furniture, etc., etc. And in addition, you have a statement from the IMF Head of Mission that you are so much invited to, Mrs Mulgas, who welcomed the freezing of budgetary expenditures over the next two years, welcomed the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, also supported the economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, noting that some of the effects of the measures implemented have already been seen and added that it should persist in its implementation as it is indicated that the government is going in a good direction. So this government really has hope, there's a program, and it's gonna get better.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63429	Thank you. We have a correction to Mrs. Sunday's Claric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63430	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's an incorrect quote from a colleague who says if we save on pensioners it's hypocritical. This is incorrect because a fellow budget for 2011 provides for our pensioners and pensioners 136 million kuna more than in 2010, and the number of new, newly arrived pensioners will be slightly higher, are estimated to be all for about 2,000. The 2012 budget is higher by 204 million kuna and for 2013 for slightly less than 690 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63431	Also a correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63432	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Denon said the government only cares about one third of its citizens, and the other two thirds do not care. That's absolutely incorrect. So this government takes care of everyone to get available and quality health care. Remember just a short time ago in big America how much problems were in organising health care for everyone. Of course, this government is also concerned with those at risk, so the budget for next year in the social position has not been reduced. Of course, she also cared for the pensioners and cared for them, when he returned to the pensioners, but this people remember those times when the salaries and nurses and doctors were cut, both teachers and all others. You should always question your conscience a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63433	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63434	Thank you, Mr. President. Says counterpart Denon, on this side, probably thinks of us blaming those who are gone, referring to the late Prime Minister Racan. That's not true, pal. We're not blaming anyone, we're talking about what happened during the SDP rule, we're talking about that time that you haven't had the strength or the way to repay your debt to the pensioners, we're talking about the SDP who's advocated painful cuts until yesterday, and today it doesn't remember any more, and that would mean automatically reducing pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63435	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we've asked the clubs to organise themselves in order to complete the agenda at 13 o'clock. We have 7 points proposed, so please the clubs make sure that at least we have the necessary quorum to expand the agenda. That's why I'm going to do it now, and we're going to continue to discuss this point until the quorum is shown, and then we're going to interrupt and complete the agenda. Here, please, Mrs. Nadica Jelash, come in for a discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63436	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try to make my discussion of this legislative proposal as much as possible, given the addition of the agenda. So this legislative proposal to postpone pension harmonisation in 2011 is in fact the most direct compromise of Government's assurances that the economic recovery programme is being achieved and that we will have economic growth in 2011. Tomorrow, the 2011 state budget, which is just based on estimated economic growth of 1 and a half percent, will also be voted on. So the government put the optimism of economic growth into the budget, assured us that both salaries and pensions are safe, while putting into the process a legal proposal that goes towards pensions not to be coordinated, so they do not grow. Because if there is going to be economic growth in the first half of 2011, it means that there should be growth and wages, and then it would be under Articles 81 and 86. The Pension Insurance Act should in any way harmonize pensions. According to the above mentioned Articles 81 and 86, pensions are in line with economic developments, in a way that changes their value twice a year, and by the formula half of gross salary growth and half of consumer price growth, with consumer prices being a measure of inflation, and all of this is divided by two. Unfortunately, this legislative proposal prevents the harmonisation of pensions with salary growth, with an explanation, and I would say on the pretext that it ensures that pensions do not fall. So under the cover of keeping an existing level of pension, this bill actually makes two things. First, the government admits that it does not believe what it is saying, hence economic recovery and economic growth, and the second reduces pensions. Why am I saying that pensions are shrinking despite the fact that this law is trying to protect them from being reduced? Because in the meantime it will certainly increase both electricity prices and heating prices, it will certainly no longer be able to prevent or prolong, and this will generate a total increase in cost of life, so if there is no increase in gross wages, it will certainly be consumer price growth, and as pensions are adjusted by two variables, so by the growth of wages and a half, other consumer prices, pensions should be harmonised at least according to that one variable, so based on the growth of consumer prices, in order to preserve their real value at today's or existing level. Can it actually be guaranteed that there will be no power growth and there will be no gas growth, because only in that case would this legislative proposal make sense. And to conclude, by not harmonising pensions for three years in a row, the average pension that is now about 40% of the average wage, could fall to 39% of the workers' salary, even lower. And I remind you that in 2004, it was this government that promised that the average pension would reach 50% of the average employee's pension, and in the perspective of 70%.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63437	Thank you very much. Here, we'll break up for a while. Thank you very much, let's move on. We still have one discussion in the framework of this exact pension alignment agenda. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, Mr. Crescent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63439	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would not engage in this previous debate, accusing one side of the other because it does not really make sense, but the fact is that no pension system in the world can swallow the verse that Croatia had on the labour market and all bankruptcy and all the failures and impacts of course of the global crisis, which affect Croatia's economy. The current situation in the pension system is very dramatic, namely, up to 2000 kuna pension receives 564 thousand 282 pensioners, which is 51% of all pensioners and their average pension is 1266 kuna or 23.48% of the average salary. Up to 3,000 kuna pensions receive 871 thousand 806 pensioners, which is 78.86% of all pensioners and their average pension is 1683 kuna, which is 31.2% of the average salary. I would like to remind you that, according to the World Bank, the poverty threshold in the Republic of Croatia is less than 22,000 146 kuna per year, i.e. 1845 kuna per month. At a time like this, in a situation like this in the pension system because this is a very fresh data from October 2010 ahead of us in the Croatian Parliament comes the Proposal for a Law on the postponement of pension coordination in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2011 which says in its explanation that in the event of negative trends, salaries and consumer prices are guaranteed to pensioners at an existing level. It cannot just go beyond such a finding without saying that in the past 10 years, thanks to the Swiss formula, wages have increased by 10% more than pensions, i.e. salary growth from January 1st 1999 to December 31st 2009, so for 10 years the salary growth has been 61.30%, pension growth is 51.40%, so that Swiss formula has created a lagging of pensions for full 10%. Therefore, of course that Swiss formula is very unfavourable for pensioners, because there is no weighted index of cost growth, consumer price growth, as it means a reduction in car prices or some luxury goods for pensioners. The fact is that over the past year oil and fat prices have increased by 12.7%, fruit has increased by 8.6%, vegetables by 7%, rents have increased by 5.6%, maintenance of flats and houses by 2.1%, water and various utility services by 3.7%, fuel and energy, electricity, gas etc. 8.9%, healthcare, pharmaceutical products 2.1%, dental services 4%. Therefore, this part focuses on the maximum consumption of pensioners and consumer price growth should be weighted according to the structure of the consumption of pensioners. What I would refer to is that the fact that this law applies is not what it says. This law postpones the adjustment of pensions for a full 18 months. However, pension coordination takes place in the spring so in March and September for the previous 6 months, which means that the alignments in March according to the provisions of this law and the Pension Insurance Act, the alignment in March 2012 will not be but only in September 2012 will be the first harmonisation. That is why the HNS and HSU Club proposed an amendment to prevent greater damage to pensioners, that the period of validity of this law be from 1 January 2011 to 30 June 2011, because then the pensioners would have the first alignment in March 2012. That would then fit the name of this law. Furthermore, the government argues that it has provided more money in the budget, and this little more money means it has provided more than 200 million kuna in the 2011 budget compared to 2010. But distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I assure you that it actually means less. How's that? Namely, these are the funds provided for the annual increase in pensioners, which means the beneficiary of pensions, which is not at the level my colleague Neda says 2,000 a year. It's on a slightly higher level, that level is somewhere between 15 and 25 pensioners a year, it's the growth of pensioners in the Mirovinski Fund by speaking roughly in these figures. We have 50 to 65 thousand new pensioners depending on the year, depending on what happens in the pension system, and somewhere between 35 and 40,000 pensioners die annually. With new pensioners in the system carrying fewer pensions, this automatically means that pensions at the annual level will fall without this harmonisation for somewhere between 10 and 15 kuna in the average pension. Mistakes are when they say the share of pensions in average wages is growing. Yeah. It's growing because it's falling. They say the cost is large, the share of pensions in the gross social product is growing. Yeah, but it's not because there's a pension growing, it's because the gross social product is falling. And it's a very interesting fact, the government is giving as much as it can right now. I'm not sure, because if there was an indexation at the level of last year it would be between 0.5 or 1%, and that's between 200 to 350 million kuna at the level of the year, and that's not such a terrible money that the government can't find, because it finds a lot more harmless things than the retirement standard, therefore HSU or the CNS will not support this law, and I would strongly recommend that, despite the fact that we won't support this bill, that you adopt this amendment that exactly says that the freezing of pensions will take place for a year, because otherwise it will be 18 months. And if that's true, that's what the alignment of September 2009 says, because the Undercover Tax Act came into force in July. However, the coordination had to take place because the alignment relates to the previous period of 6 months, so the previous half-year period. That is why I strongly recommend that in order for the name of the law to correspond to the truth, you accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63440	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63441	Mr. Representative, you mentioned these price adjustments for more. And this is how you listed them in order, diet 12, 13, fruit 8, vegetables I don't know how much, rents, houses, fuel, etc. But to be cynical, why worry? Why should we worry about the electricity, the TV subscription? What's it gonna do to the pensioners, so they're just watching Fazlinović and out of it almost nothing anyway. Why worry about picking up gas? Well, they don't need to get warmed up. Why worry about picking up bread, rent? No, she won't, that's where Tito saved them, built them 400 thousand apartments they could buy during Tudjman. Why would they drive when, say, gasoline will collect, etc. They'll collect everything clearly, but if they will, and they will, and we're aware of that, then let the ruling majority stop misleading the public that it's the opposition that would correct the pensions down there and they seem like everything that doesn't happen. The truth is, I dare even say, in far greater trouble than the pensioners themselves, however ungrateful their position is, today it is those who work in the real sector. We had a million 524 thousand 360 a year ago who were in labor. Today, a million 422 thousand 536 or, in a year, this country has lost 101 thousand 824 workers. So that's the problem that generates later and the position of people who receive salaries in the public sector, which generates the standard of individual institutions, as well as the mass of 1 million 180 thousand pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63442	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63443	Dear fellow Cain, of course I share your opinion, you've shown it a little cynically, that's quite all right. I mean, it's not right that way to joke with our pensioners who really have a hard time living. But you know, in the last 10 years, pensioners have only had two retirement periods in 2004 and in the first half of 2005, good adjustments because then pensions were followed by salary growth, and there was a good wage growth. Everything else didn't follow the salary growth, and the pensioners in that section were always down. That you shouldn't trust your promises, that's where I totally agree with you because eventually I felt it on my skin. In 2003, when we signed a coalition agreement, the prime minister's candidate for prime minister, Mr Sanader, generously offered the pensioners that we would come to an average pension in the long term, which will be 75% of the average salary. However, that seems to be what we'll see when the willow gives birth to the music. Therefore, it is inappropriate for pensioners to promise from both future authorities and the current authorities that they will take steps overnight and that the standard will be so easily increased. You know as well as I do that the only good, stable pension policy is full-employment policy, and right here in new employment I see the slightest shifts in our dear Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63444	Thank you. And in the name of the promoter, State Secretary Mr. Kresimir Rogman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63445	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. I'll just look back at two things. Therefore, this law ends, its application ends on 31 December of the following year, in 2011, so in 2012, it is no longer in application of the articles of the Pension Insurance Act and I see no obstacles to the fact that it would not be possible to coordinate pensions under the Pension Insurance Act at that time, after this provisional law ceases to apply on 31 December 2012. And another thing I'd like to mention, the constitutionality issue that was mentioned. This is about the law, a special law with a provisional validity, and therefore no constitutional issue can be questioned because, as it is one law, it is the Law on Pensions, some right given by that law is the right to change the law. This isn't about acquired rights. And finally, I would say this is one tough law, an unpopular law, but that's why one responsible law is to be passed and I suggest that it be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63446	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63447	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I only know what it was like in 2009 when the Crisis Tax Act was passed, which also had a delay in harmonisation, as it applied. As taught by this experience, we have put forward a proposal for an amendment. If you claim it will be as you said I ask you to enter it in the final provisions of this law by amendment to the Government and we will withdraw our amendment. But let it be written by the explicits in this law that the first alignment will be in March 2012. If not, everyone will interpret, no matter what authority they will then be, everyone will interpret as the Pension Insurance Act says, and he is coordinating for a period of 6 months back, and in that time there is no harmonisation of pensions. So, you have time, think again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63448	Thank you. We have another correction, Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63449	On the trail of what Hrelja's colleague says, please, we have passed the State Budget Act, which plans and expenditures for 2012 where these funds are not available. Rather, it will be concluded that this will continue to apply this law and in the year after that. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Absolutely, that's why this amendment or some thinking on this trail would certainly be desirable and welcome. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63450	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Suspension of Retirement of Pensions from 1 January to 31 December 2011, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 644, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the IDS Representatives' Club and the HNS's Club of Representatives, HSU. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. The Minister of Drinks. ... /The noise in the hall./... Amendments to the gentleman...... /The noise in the hall./... We have an amendment to the IDS Representative Club on Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63452	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63453	The amendment is not accepted. IDS counseling club, no one's here. Who is for this amendment to the IDS Representatives Club please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the second amendment to Article 2 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63454	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63455	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU, Amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63456	Also, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63457	Thank you. On behalf of the club? Voting?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63458	When it's said that it's not accepted, I guess there's some kind of rule to say why.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63459	I'm sorry, I didn't see you come back. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63460	We'll buy you glasses, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63461	Here's the minister to complete his...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63462	So you're basically your amendment in one part and you've passed this law, but you've predicted a deadline cut. For the reason that in this context, the law itself would not have received the intended effects we propose that the amendment not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63463	Thank you. Mr. Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63464	Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63465	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Minister. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Suspension of Retirement of Pensions from 1 January to 31 December 2011. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposed final bill. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 34 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63466	We continue with the afternoon session, and I ask you to accept one necessary change, which is that first we start with points 6, 7 and 8, and then we'll go with 4, 5 and 9. So if that's what we agreed on, then we're starting with a point - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 648 - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 649 - Final proposal for a law on the termination of the health insurance law on health protection at work, emergency procedure, first and long reading, P.Z. No.650 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that these legislative regulations be discussed in an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Drazen Jurkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs. Allow me with a few words to explain the proposals of these laws. Namely, the proposals and the adoption of these amendments to the Health Protection Act are intended to implement the Anti-Recession Programme of the Government of Croatia, namely the conclusions of 23 July 2010 on the reorganisation of agencies, institutes and funds and, consequently, in the proposal to amend and supplement this law, propose to extend the activities of the Croatian Institute for Toxicology, since it is proposed that the Croatian Anti-Doping Agency in Sport be attached to the Croatian Toxicology Institute. The proposal for this law also provides for the merger of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and also for emergency medical units of regional self-government to take over workers, take up space and equipment that have been used by emergency medical teams in units of regional or regional self-government. Namely, you know that one of the essential parts of the reform of the health system and emergency medical care where the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the World Bank is to be completed, and until the end of 2011, all counties, i.e. each county should have an established emergency medicine office. Thus, 20 emergency medical institutions are formed, emergency medical assistance aimed at equating emergency medical care standards in the territory of the Republic of Croatia because organisational forms are today quite uneven. In the large cities of Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek and Split we have emergency medical facilities. In the vast majority of counties we also have teams performing emergency medical care, and in the rest of the Republic of Croatia we have primary health care doctors who perform emergency medical care in the form of preparedness and duty. The proposal also gives powers to the administrations of health homes and local communities to amend and supplement the law to have possible extra space. In particular, it is anticipated that the health care home may be leased to legal and physical persons based on the decision of the Governing Council to carry out health activities in the public health service network. It is also foreseen that, on the basis of the decision of the Governing Council, it may, with the consent of the founders, rent a business space to carry out health activities outside the public health service network, and on the basis of the decision of the Governing Council, with the consent of the Founder and the consent of the Minister, renting a business space to legal and physical persons to carry out non-health activities. In addition, this law defines that a network of contracted subjects of medical work is being edited and defines the number of health institutions needed and a specialist in private practice with which the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance concluded a contract on the implementation of health care. Of course, the network brings a minister with a preliminary opinion from the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work and Competent Chambers. And the last essential element of amending and supplementing this law is that the transitional provision of this legislative proposal regulates that in the event of the termination of the work of all healthcare professionals who have performed pharmaceutical activities in the unit of lease of home health, the pharmaceutical activity continues to carry out a home of health. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, this Law proposes that the single holder of the business of compulsory health insurance and of the one currently implementing the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work as well as the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance be, therefore, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, i.e. on the basis of what I said in the opening part of this exhibition, that the proposals or this package of laws are the most significant amendment to the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Health Protection at Work is attached to the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. What really needs to be pointed out here, so what are the reasons for this attachment. First of all, as I pointed out, this is within the framework of the anti-resion programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, rationalisation of business, i.e. reduction of administration. I would just remind myself that during 2010 the Croatian Health Insurance Office reduced the number of its employees by 124 and by joining this Institute, so during 2011, a reduction is planned for another 50 people. Also, what is key, one of the key goals of bringing these two institutions together is to remove administrative barriers on the occasion of the right to the health care of our users. The separation of these institutions in the implementation itself has shown in health practice that healthcare users have certain problems when exercising their rights, especially when it comes to the exercise of their rights, i.e. health care standards in primary health care and labour medicine. We also believe that since the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance has done these jobs before 2006, therefore health insurance jobs at work will be an additional contribution to the rationalisation of the entire system and unification of these two institutions. So, the use of all those administrative potentials that now have both two institutions in one place, which should certainly contribute both to the level and to raising the level and quality of health care, and above all to the removal of barriers, administrative barriers to the use of health care for our insurance companies. The proposal also provides for the business of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute outside the state budget to start and enter into force in 2012. As you know, so far there has been a decision by the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, so that the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is singled out of the Treasury from 1.1.2011. However, due to objective circumstances, because of the way the budget was adopted and the recession situation that conditioned the creation of such a state budget as it is. The conclusion was also a proposal after all analyses that both for the health system and for the general state budget of the Republic of Croatia will create the conditions for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to be singled out from Riznica not in 1.1.2011 but in 1.1.2012. Also, this Law provides for the introduction of an electronic application as well as the introduction of an electronic health checkout for our insurance companies, and changes the time limit of application for compulsory health insurance from the current 15 to 8 days. And also, as a third point, this bill provides that the Health Insurance Act should cease to apply on the basis of the fact that the Mandatory Health Insurance Act therefore provides for all the specifics contained in this law. And once again, I note at the end of my presentation, that there is no reduction in the right, that there is no reduction in health care standards, that also specific health care, preventive review and all that has been done by the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and Work Insurance will take over fully from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. And therefore, we expect to improve the standards of Croatian insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63468	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with fellow Members, MPs and MPs. As already mentioned in his opening statement, the State Secretary is hereby adopted on the basis of the Programme of Economic Recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the conclusion made by the Government, as a result of which a single holder of the tasks of compulsory health insurance is proposed and that carried out by the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance in accordance with the Law on Obligatory Health Insurance as well as the jobs of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Health Protection at Work carried out in accordance with the Law on Health Insurance of Health at Work. And according to the proposed law of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, health protection at work will be taken over by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute on 1 January 2011. Therefore, in principle these amendments to the Law will cease to apply the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act at work. I just have to point out in the opening statement that here by 2006 until we actually didn't have one law a year there were 20,000 injuries to work. Only 10% of the workers had specific protection by 2006, in some professions, unfortunately no one, and those who had had were workers the employer was obliged to provide them with medical examinations. It was rare for workers to pay for these checks themselves, and they only provided the employer with a document to prove that they were able to work at their workplace. The causes of the disease have also been very rarely analysed by 2006. We had a large number of prematurely retired workers, or disabled, in the health insurance system no costs were recorded and no injuries were reported and there was no disease register. So, after 2006, certainly through the legislative regulation and the establishment of a more efficient system, many things change. Just comparisons, I'd like to mention that according to the world's statistics, it loses 112 thousand working days per year to 100,000 employees, and even three times more days is lost due to diagnostics, treatment, and compensation costs. The proposal for a Law on the termination of the Act on Health Insurance and Health Protection at Work, regulates that health care activities are carried out by health institutions, companies and private health workers under conditions and in a manner prescribed by the Law on Health Protection, the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, the Law on Institutions and the Law on Commercial Society, and the Law on concessions. Accordingly, the work of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Health at Work is abolished, and a series of regulations providing specific health care for workers, explaining that they will be implemented in accordance with the basic Health Protection Act. The law I mentioned in 2006 provided workers with medical work services, as well as the implementation of technical protection measures at work, the obligation to assess hazards and risks in the working environment, and preventive action to create a safe job and environment by employers. We must also say that the law was in line with a series of EU directives and accompanying documents, which the European Union adopted from 1989 to 2003, with the purpose of implementing an effective health protection strategy at work, to reduce the cost of injury caused by injury, hazard and job effort, or from the working environment. Guidelines of the European Union were given in 1996 on the application of the European Union Directives under national conditions. A document concerning candidate countries and improving working conditions in accession countries was adopted in the European Union in 2003. The reason for the adoption of these directives in the European Union was based on data showing that 4% of GDP per year is spent in the world for detecting, treating and paying occupational sickness benefits, including the cost of premature retirement of workers due to these diseases, and injuries. Work-related disease studies have shown that more than 50% of all costs are indirectly or directly caused by workplace damages. The strategy included recommendations to increase prevention activities at the workplace, training of workers and employers, and special attention is paid to reducing the number of working days lost due to sick leave. All these documents were incorporated into the law and the accompanying regulations were laid down by law adopted in 2006 in the Republic of Croatia. Also in the Republic of Croatia, only 10% of workers were included in the specific health care of workers in 2006 and we had no data on the right proportions of occupational and occupational diseases. By law and by accompanying implementing rules, this situation has been significantly improved, and employers have recognised that investment in prevention benefits in the long term, and based on the revision of the hazard assessment of the workplace, the overall safety at work and the number of preventive activities has been increased. So, according to us at the HSS Club, it is not disputed that health care, i.e. treatment, should also be carried out for workers in the primary health care system, as proposed by the law today, we at the HSS Club also feel that it must not be questionable that specific preventive measures on health protection will be implemented, for which the current law was in charge of a team of experts at the head of medical work specialists who are also the most competent for this activity. In order to ensure, in any event, that the implementation of the Directives and accompanying documents of the European Union, adopted by the Republic of Croatia in the process of harmonising its legal solutions in the field of health protection at work, since in the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act with the final proposal of the law, we only speak of health protection in general, not specifically and in line with European legislation and practice, we propose five amendments in the HSS club, so that we give weight to this law, to clarify it and that all those who are in some way within these specific preventive measures of health protection of work should be particularly interested in using their rights, so that these rights can be used without delay, and that they of course are in charge to ensure that those rights really know what they should be taken. I will briefly present here the five amendments that the Club of Representatives of the HSS has submitted to this law, I believe that the Proposer will consider these amendments and accept them. Article 1 of the Compulsory Health Insurance Act, Article 1 which adds a new paragraph 3 to Article 2 of the existing law, at the end of that paragraph, shall be deleted, the following words shall be added, which shall include measures to implement the specific health care of workers and diagnostic procedures in the event of suspicion of a professional disease, in accordance with the Health Protection Act and the specific laws, and rules adopted under those laws. So why are we proposing this? The bill does not show anywhere that compulsory health insurance also provides means to prevent occupational illnesses, thus not ensuring the current level of protection and implementation of the EU Directive, the Labour Convention, which is the Republic of Croatia's signatories. The second amendment to Article 3 of Appendix 13b is proposed to add a new paragraph 3 to the insurance undertakings referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article under compulsory health insurance rights and medical checks shall also be provided after termination of work in the event of exposure to fibrogenic dust or carcinogens. The next explanation is for this amendment. According to the European Union directives, the worker is entitled to health care and after the end of exposure to fibrogenic dust or carcinogens, without its participation in costs and health care. Since diseases occur and after the end of exposure, permanent healthcare supervision, which should be provided by HZZO under mandatory health insurance rights, is essential. I will only set an example here, because later on we will discuss a package of laws concerning workers who have suffered from asbestos, or who have worked under such conditions that they have serious consequences today, unless we fix these articles that we are now talking about in the HSS club and we are putting the amendment on the table, we are afraid that certain activities and preventive checks will be questioned by those workers. In fact, if someone worked at Salonita or Plovsto, both companies were in bankruptcy and, of course, after 20, 30 years of experience the consequences of this work and went to preventive and diagnostic checks, so far the law has found that such costs will be covered by HZZO. We at the HSS Club advocate to keep it that way and that is why we propose these amendments because in such cases the disease can occur after a long time and have serious consequences. When that employee is no longer employed in his company, and especially when it comes to bankrupt companies, it is a question of who would settle such checks. Amendment 3 is submitted to Article 4, Appendix 14a of the Law – we propose an amendment to paragraph 1 of Article 14 of the added Article 1 so that it reads as follows: "The specific health care measures of workers in accordance with the Health Protection Act and the specific laws and rules adopted under these laws". In the context of the expenditure on compulsory health insurance rights, resources for the implementation of prevention measures in the specific health care of workers are also provided, and the same is the reason for the amendment to Article 19, which is amended in accordance with Article 54 of the Law, where we propose an amendment to point 4, so that it reads as follows: "the law on compulsory health insurance referred to in Article 14a of this Law". We also submit the fifth amendment to Article 21 in a way that adds a new paragraph 2 of Article 68 of the Law to the new paragraph 3 which reads: "For the implementation of specific health care of workers, the Institute has exceptionally concluded contracts with both the State Health Institutes and health institutions involved in the network of public health services when certain diagnostic procedures are carried out only in the diagnostic laboratories of those institutions". The reason is that, in conducting a review of medical work specialists, psychologists who are not healthcare professionals are involved, but healthcare associates, who are to be mentioned in the law because otherwise HZZO will not be able to make contracts with them without breaking the law. Therefore, all these 5 amendments submitted by the HSS Representatives Club are aimed at making the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance clearer and more concrete on the EU's trail of the directive, but also on the trail of positive practices. We congratulate on all these shifts that have been made so far, of course, on the reform that results. We believe that this package of laws, which is passed with such proposed amendments, will also give very quickly concrete results, and of course to the satisfaction of all those who need health care and of course all those who have the right to this health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63470	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63471	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ Club supports the Programme of Economic Recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore supports all those measures and changes of the Public Administration, including the redesign of existing agencies, institutions and other parts of the state administration as well as existing bodies belonging to them. Laws and sublegal acts. Accordingly, the HDZ Club supports and mentions the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, after a full review of the reconstructions and the system of compulsory health insurance and health care as a whole. The HDZ Club also supports a full reform of the health system that is fully in line with the mentioned conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the Economic Recovery Programme of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Health Protection Act with the final draft of the law, then we support the introduction of concessions at the level of primary and health care to carry out health care, as well as the accession of the Croatian Anti-Doping Agency to sport, the Institute for Toxicology and the extension of the activities of the Croatian Institute for Toxicology in a way that the Croatian Institute for Toxicology takes over the activities of the Antidoping Office. We also keep it important that the Emergency Medicine Institute at the level of units of regional and regional self-government undertakes to take over workers who have worked in emergency medical care activities at home level as well as their premises and equipment. We think it is good that the administrative councils of the health homes, with the consent of the founders, and with the consent of the additional minister, can rent space for unhealthy activity within the health homes. The law also provides that healthcare institutions can provide welfare measures in accordance with social welfare regulations. It is important that it is regulated within the transitional provisions that, in the event of the termination of the work of healthcare professionals who have performed a pharmaceutical activity in the unit of lease of the House of Health, and on the basis of the relevant regulations, that this activity is actually taken over by health homes. When it comes to health care measures, I think it is important to note that, therefore, in this case, Article 1 has now intervened in the existing Article 21 of the Law in such a way that specific health care will no longer be implemented in accordance with the Health Insurance Act on Health at Work but in accordance with the uniform law on compulsory health insurance. In the section of health activities, the existing Article 33 extends to the activities of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and Anti-doping, which I have already talked about. In the case of facilities and organisational forms of health activities, the existing Article 35 shall regulate entities carrying out health activities as well as the law governing them. This proposal understandably withdraws the Health Safety Insurance Act at work, and Article 4 of the Network of Contracting Subjects of Medical Work is determined by the number of health institutions and medical specialists in private practice with which HZZO will conclude a contract. When it comes to the segment of the law governing the issue of health institutions at the primary level and health activities, i.e. When it comes to the House of Health, it is important to stress that the existing Article 80 is completely changed and a new one is added to allow the Governing Council, with the consent of the founders, to issue therefore a business space in the home of health in the lease of private and physical persons to carry out health activities as I have already said. I have already mentioned health institutions and it is important that Article 7 of the anti-doping activity is agreed to extend the activities of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology as a regular activity within the mentioned Croatian Institute of Toxicology and Anti-doping, and this Law also states that it will be new in the future, so to say the old Croatian Institute of Toxicology and Anti-doping. The following article extends the activities of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and, given that the mentioned anti-doping agency is being shut down, the power of the Croatian Toxology Institute is then clearly extended, the HDZ Club holds that this is a good solution and supports it. In the case of a health segment of the law governing the issue of healthcare professionals or Article 10, this Article provides that a healthcare professional may, with the approval of an employer, enter into an employment contract only in a healthcare institution or only in a private employer who does not have a contract for the conduct of health care with HZZO and in Article 210 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, it is regulated that emergency medical services in units of the area, regional self-government may be taken over by workers who carry out emergency medical or other tasks in order to carry out emergency medical assistance in homes of the area and regional self-government. In the transitional provisions, that article regulates the case for the termination of the work of healthcare professionals who carry out medical activities in the unit of lease of home health and under the rules. In short, I would like to refer to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law, and I would like to stress that the HDZ Club also supports decisions. a proposal that provides for a single holder of compulsory health insurance services, which will provide for compulsory health insurance and health protection operations at work so far carried out by the competent Institute, i.e. Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work assumes responsibility as a whole. HZZO will take full responsibility on 1 January 2011 and the HZZO will also be singled out from the 2012 state budget, which we believe is significant progress and important that this step has taken place when it comes to independent planning and providing health care. When it comes to individual amendments and additions to certain articles of the Law, then I think it is important to mention that the rights of compulsory health insurance for labour injuries and occupational diseases are extended and this applies to the general provisions of the law. And that part of the chapter of the insured persons, i.e. insurance and other insured persons, it is important to say that categories of insurance companies exercising compulsory health insurance rights in case of work injury and occupational diseases are determined. Additional articles, in this case 13a. and 13b. the categories of insurance undertakings are listed and new articles of Article 14a, b, c are added within the compulsory health insurance rights under mandatory health insurance rights in case of occupational injury and occupational diseases, and defined and injuries to work and occupational disease are defined. It is also important to supplement Article 16 in a way that HZZO will ensure the payment of health services and for the treatment of all those consequences of work injuries and occupational diseases. In the case of payment entitlements, Article 24 of the existing Law is added to Article 24a. which also regulates the right to cash compensation in case of injury or professional illness. Article 11 of this proposal intervenes in Article 33 of the existing Law in a way that controls sick leave with the aim of removing obstacles directly to investment in the Republic of Croatia. Article 12 The proposal is intervened in the existing law in such a way as to ensure that the insurance undertaking is entitled to compensation for work or occupational illness injuries. In the Chapter of the right to health care from compulsory health insurance, Article 16 of the supplement of Article 69 of the existing Law recognises the right of insurance undertakings to be compensated for the costs of transport for the use of health care resulting from a recognised injury to the work or occupational disease. No matter how far. We consider this very important, so that, in fact, accessibility or access to human health care regardless of the problems facing both injury or professional illness would be covered in a certain way, by covering the costs. Article 17 also lays down the right to funeral expenses if death occurs as a consequence of a recognised injury or occupational disease. We are very important to evaluate this segment which regulates the financing of compulsory health insurance and Article 18 of this proposal is foreseen in addition to the income of compulsory health insurance and health insurance and health insurance contributions and Article 19 of the same Act are determined with the expenditure on compulsory health insurance and the expenditure of compulsory health insurance in case of work injury or occupational illness. Similarly, the very important HDZ Club assesses the introduction of a special fund for health insurance obligations for occupational injury and occupational disease. When it comes to the relationship between the Institute and health care institutions, i.e. private health workers, the supplier of healthcare aids, we keep significant articles 21 to 24 which regulate the basis for the conclusion of contracts for the implementation of specific health protection of workers and in line with the network of contract teams of labour medicine. Finally, when it comes to the proposal for a law on the termination of the health insurance law at work, the HDZ Club assesses the effectiveness of the health insurance and health care system as a whole that it is good to adopt this proposal, which actually withdraws or ceases the validity of the Health Insurance Act and the termination of the Regulation establishing the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work. I have already noted that the HDZ Club also assesses these laws as part of the health reform package and as such supports all that this does when it comes to reorganising and reorganising, in general, reshuffle when it comes to the hospital healthcare sector and finding new ways of financing and informing primary health care and reforms. redesigning primary healthcare, redesigning emergency medical care, improving oncological activity, strengthening prevention, control and new way of paying medicines, increasing system transparency. And in any case, welcome and establish, first steps, but significant steps to establish quality, quality control of health care, including establishment and accreditation standards through the adoption of standards for hospital health care, then plan and programme of measures to ensure, improve and promote health care. Once again, on behalf of the HDZ Club, support all these bill proposals as a contribution to the health sector reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63472	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63473	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. Here we are today discussing a package of health laws in which I think we are all going to agree on the most interesting part of the termination of the Health Insurance Act at work. Therefore, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work, an institution established three years ago, is abolished in order to significantly improve health prevention at work and reduce the cost of injuries to work and occupational diseases. What we heard in the opening section from the ministry's representatives, somehow it would seem logical that this particular institution was not brought to this government, but to the government that has definitely had continuity for seven years. I'd like to remind you that this office is based on the neck, on the nose, with a lot of skepticism and a lot of objections. The government then stated in its explanation that the implementation of the law in terms of compulsory health insurance and health insurance in case of work injury and occupational diseases will result in a more accurate demonstration of injuries to work and occupational diseases, as well as in connection with the dedicated spending of health insurance funds from this type of risk. I wonder what's going on with this attitude today? Today, there is obviously no argument that the government then called upon. I will remind you that Croatia also received 2 million kunas from the EU for this project. What happened after the law was established? After we barely found a way to find a way, after meetings and meetings, agreeing, trying to get things in order, after three years, everything finally worked out. I have already said on many occasions that the Ministry of Health is unfortunately very often acting on some reverse printing principle better than to prevent, because there is not enough hearing to prevent which is important for citizens, and ultimately financially for society better. This is one of the few examples when the final prevention came on its own. The result was that the number of preventive checks increased by 30% over the period of three years, then in 2008, about 25 thousand 300 injuries at work, i.e. 5 thousand 700 injuries or 22.6% of injuries were lower than in 2009 when 19 thousand 566 injuries occurred. I'm going to point out another fact that this kind of injury trend at work was pretty stable at a far lower level than in those pre-war years. Unfortunately, this was not due to better prevention, due to a systematic HDZ policy that has led to such a good response to labour injuries, but in law as a reflection of HDZ's systematic policy in which industry has been destroyed and the number of workers has been reduced, thus reducing the number of labour injuries. The other day we had a budget debate, so someone here mentioned that Croatia is now at 63% of pre-war production according to the level of industrial production. That sad data also affected some falsely good work injury. As I have already said, the number of injuries was stable, and last year we had for the first time doubtless and clearly had a fall, a steep drop in work injury. This is certainly done by a better organisation of prevention through medical work and the work of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Health Protection of Work. And now that we're finally starting to record a positive trend, we're going back to the way we were. The question arises why do you change what has proved to be finally a positive result? At the very least, it confuses the fact that, in the light of this proposal, we have been written to show the necessary reorganisation of the mandatory health insurance system in the Republic of Croatia after the full analysis has been carried out. None of the medical specialists, nor the unions, nor the employers have seen a letter of this whole analysis. No one knows what her results are. The question is, why couldn't any of the interested parties see that analysis? The only reason that is unfortunately imposed is money. The salaries of employers for work injuries and occupational diseases annually collected 600 to 700 thousand kuna. The Institute has had about half of that money, and now that the merger is going to take place, that is, when everything will be back under HZZO's authority, there is a greater possibility of non-transparent spending of money. So, so far we have no idea where half the money is going, and now it's going to happen that we won't even know where the total amount is going. Association of HZZO institutions has neither the support of the union nor the profession, because everyone is aware that this will reverse the protection of workers' health. It is also said in the explanation that the Institute is abolished because of the implementation of economic recovery measures, we have heard this again today and that there are particularly justified state reasons for the adoption of the laws by emergency procedure. Now when we compare this sentence to everything I said before, so there's been a decrease in the number of injuries at work, that there's a decrease in number, I don't think I mentioned the number of fatal accidents, that there's an increase in the number of preventive checks, then the only word that comes to mind is that it's a shame. What kind of government has the nerve to lift something that shows well-being for society and justifies it to the particularly important interests of the Republic of Croatia? What are particularly important reasons beyond the health and safety of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia? I must say that the Croatian worker is not a laboratory animal over which the minister will conduct his experiments which by the system of attempts of error may show that someone will survive, and someone will not, but is part of a population that unfortunately disappears from the government's systematic measures. In Croatia, one worker works for one pensioner and one unemployed, and that is quite long-term, we are all aware, unsustainable. So today we have to do everything we think will protect the worker, this few workers we have left, to keep them healthy and safe in their workplace. With this proposal, we are obviously going back to the beginning, i.e. we are going to a new uncertainty for workers, employers and doctors who specialize in medical work. Today, I'm going to remind her of 22.11. So there are 40 days until New Year's when we're expected to adapt to a new system that is so far completely unknown. Terms and conditions with HZZO are unknown for doctors specialists in medical work. They don't know if they're gonna have contracts with companies they've worked with anymore. So all together, there's going to be one total chaos like we had three years ago when the institute was introduced. According to the 2009 World Health Organization report in Croatia on the state of health of workers, among other things, the existing National Health and Safety Protection Programme for the period 2009 to 2013 provides a good basis for further development of safety and health at work. In addition to the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act on Health at Work, which, by the same time, is announced today, the programme is a strategic, regulatory and financial setting that sets out the objectives and instruments to achieve them. So what's on drugs and the World Health Organization is today, or when the vote is lifted. One of the health reform objectives was to freeze the resources allocated to health care at 2009 level. It should be said loud and clear, working protection costs, but ultimately it's worth it. If someone came willingly and underlined what was said to the line, it would be realized that the abolition of this law would not save itself but would cost everything, both workers and employers and the state. I note that this is a non-loser institution that was very well covered in funds for its work. The interest of all of us should be moves that will aim to a healthy and secure workplace, and the benefit is multiple. We have a satisfied and healthy worker, a satisfied employer and financial savings. The question arises in whose interest is what is now proposed. The interest of the worker certainly is not, and he should be our first priority. The employer's interest is not, nor is he an expert in medicine work. Therefore common sense imposes a voice against this proposal, this will be done by the SDP, and does not support it when voting in the Croatian Parliament because I am sure that no MP wants to take responsibility for the chaos that will follow if they support such a proposal. So as I said, the SDP will not support these laws, and I call on other colleagues to join us in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63474	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go. Excuse me, we have two corrections. That's right. ... We'll see, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first is the correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Borzan has made several incorrect allegations, and the first of them is that the government doesn't have enough hearing to prevent it. That's absolutely incorrect. Of course, it also shows preventive programs for early detection of breast cancers, colon cancers, and other activities. But you said another inaccuracy, which is that the unions didn't even see it. It's not true, so the health workers' union was positively obvious about this moment. And the third thing, you're still calling yourself a doctor. Well, I didn't realize that the medical work was cut off with this. Well, the 2011 budget envisions 600 million kuna in this position, and so far there have been 345 million kunas. And it was in practice something else entirely, namely overlapping often between a doctor and a general physician. I believe now with this solution the doctors of medical work...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63476	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63477	Have a lot more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63478	Thank you very much. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague and a doctor of medical work, indeed, in her speech, 25 times, she said that the office is being abolished. The Bureau doesn't cancel and that's not true, it's a lie, I won't use another word. It belongs administratively to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. The activities carried out by the work medicine shall be attached, shall not be abolished, shall continue to be carried out, and the labour medicine Regulation shall be adopted together with the chamber. They should be informed and they should know that. Therefore, you cannot claim that something is abolished if the funds will be 100% increased to 600 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63480	Thank you. And now it's the HNS-HSU Club, the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63481	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the ministry, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Again, in 2006, we had this debate about the health care package, and now in 2010, we have a debate about the package again, and we have no analysis of what this new report brought to the Institute on Health Safety of Health at Work, so what are its positive effects. We have estimates that all of this is done, because of the economic measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but some concrete analysis which is the effects in the three-year business of this office we do not have except what the colleague said was a positive business and the question is how far he could progress or improve the health protection system at work. So that's the problem with discussing laws like this. Secondly, we do not really have the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, which was in 2006, all employers gave their opinion on the Health Law package, and at that time this institution was specifically created, except for the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions, which had a separate opinion and all trade unions and all employers' representatives gave their opinion and supported this package of laws. It's worth reminding what Mr. Ljubic here said about this pay phone. He said he thanked everyone because there was an agreement in Croatia to the most possible extent, he said that the five union centres of employers of all the chambers in health care and associations that had participated on workshops had given support and that it had happened, therefore consent, so both the professions and representatives of citizens to the greatest extent possible. It was then said that one of the things that were really, in fact, absolutely strengthened and in such a way that it was actually implemented from the lowest units, from departments, clinics to the head of the department, the head of clinics to the director and the functioning of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is actually a responsibility. I'm talking about paper, I'm talking about the Minister's performance here for this pay phone in 2006. Financial and professional responsibility. And just when I'm talking about financial responsibility and today it's very current as it is today very current, current because right now I'm not running away from it, and that's why we're going to all the changes where we actually have achieved and not the fulfilled obligations of all our hospitals in the health system of Croatia over a billion and a half. That was the main reason. We want to strengthen this responsibility and therefore strengthen the responsibility of the founder for the obligations of health institutions although it is already listed in the Law on Institutions where we are still strengthening it here. We highlight, strengthen and also strengthen the responsibility of the Director and Head of each Financial Business Unit. Surely one of the key issues is whether the leader of a unit must be the most professional person or actually it must be a good organizer, a quality organizer who will be able to function within the means available. I think that, in accordance with the experiences in the world, this is another extraordinary and much more significant than that the leader of some unit might actually be the best surgeon, best intern or best gynecologist. So that was the problem we faced in 2006. And what we wanted to do with the Health Insurance and Health Services. Minister Ljubicic said the following at the time. For the first time in fact, the system of protection, so health insurance, health care at work, has been removed from mandatory health insurance. And if this works practically in all European Union countries, there is no reason not to be in Croatia. Now we're doing the opposite. And in this context, we are setting up a separate institution that will be separated from the existing Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, which we will call, so the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work. This institution will function on the principle of mutuality and solidarity and that is what we all were meant to do. And that's where we got a lot of consent to that law, and I think we're going right now with an extremely high-quality proposal. The establishment of incompetence for work will be by specialists in medical work as a de facto first-degree solution, then the medical board of the Croatian Institute of Medicine while the main, therefore, final solution will be made by the future institute. So, the Croatian Institute for Health Safety at Work. Such action is practically complementary to most of the solutions we also have in the European Union. What I'd like to say is there won't be any additional employment here. Namely, the Croatian Institute will use resources from the existing Croatian Health Insurance Institute. The system must be completely separated. Also, to encourage adequate protection at work, to encourage care for each worker, we also introduce the principle of bonus malasses. What does that mean? This means that anyone who has adequate protection at work, who cares about their workers will practically have a certain bonus, will pay less. So less or less will stand out or rather will no longer stand out in the common fund. Unless it takes care of the workers themselves, unless there is adequate protection at work, it means a large number of those who have professional illnesses or injuries at work then actually they enter this part of the small part, and that means they actually have a criminal point. So they'll pay more. Therefore, and according to these criteria, they will stand out more in the common fund, and we have, in fact, fully aligned with the adequate solutions that we have in the countries of the European Union. Well, first. In order to coordinate in some way, in order to be in the same way as other European Union countries, this part should be governed by health insurance at work by a specialised institution that we have had. We don't have an analysis of how she progressed, whether this bonus malasses is the most significant part and the most significant task this Bureau has accomplished. Because it's not the point that all employers pay the same. The bottom line is that those employers who invest more in the safety and health of workers pay less and who have fewer injuries to pay less, and those who neglect protection at work less invest in the protection of workers' health, pay more. We don't have reports of whether or not this Bureau arranged it, and that was the primary goal of setting it up in three years. What's said here is that the Bureau doesn't disappear. The Institute just disappears as a legal person. The work will continue at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, as the mandatory health insurance law requires that it take place. So part of it was arranged by the Health Insurance Act, and there is no doubt there. But they won't be able to get an epithet of specialists for this area modeled in Germany, Austria, which are extremely strong in these areas. So, therefore, I think this is one mistake, that this is no savings. Croatia will not have any savings on this basis and one area of particular social interest, which is to protect the health of workers at work and health insurance in this respect will be neglected in some way, as the Croatian Health Insurance Office has a number of recent jobs. In order not to stand on this law alone, I also want to say a short word about the Health Insurance Act where, in the opinion of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Pensions Party, this liberalisation of renting space in health homes is suddenly too large. I think it should, however, determine which activities could not be in those areas because this is how it turns out that someone can open an auto-mechanical workshop in the House of Health because they are all non-medical activities classified under one, and I think it should say that some of the activities will take place that are in some way close to the health institution, i.e. very close to that medical spectrum of activity. And what you would pay particular attention to, too, to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, for the second time, we are already delaying the possibility that the Croatian Health Insurance Office will begin to manage the insurance assembly. So you know that we decided with Milinović's 2009 reform that as of 1 January 2010, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute will have its own special account, there are conclusions of the Croatian Parliament on the subject, and that it will be possible to conduct itself in another way, let's say financial discipline in the Croatian Health Insurance Office. We are now postponing for the second time that these dates for opening a special account from all of this will be postponed for the 2012 budget. At the time we discussed, and today we can say that the policy of medicines economicisation in drug policies is possible only if the Croatian Health Insurance Office has the dynamics of paying its obligations. If this depends on Mr. Shucker's discretionary right when he pays for something, then surely because of other obligations, I don't say personal guilt, there's no reason to say it, but because of the other obligations he has in the country, those payment deadlines will surely be moved to the right, and that in the final product and the increase in the price of drugs. So I think we're already postponing this amendment and supplementing the law for the second time, and I don't think it's going in the right direction, but I'm allowing the right of the promoter to do it. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners certainly cannot raise our hand for such bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63482	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And now the honourable representative, Stjepan Milinkovic, is at work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63483	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Health care includes a system of social common individual measures, services and activities for preserving and improving health, disease prevention, early detection of diseases, timely treatment, health care and rehabilitation. The very definition shows exactly how wide the area is covered by healthcare, of course according to this and how much resources are needed to ensure it. Of course, they were also aware of this in the government at the beginning of work, and in this sense two key things are certain, and above all the financial consolidation of the health system and other high levels of quality and availability, because it is unnecessary to say how important a stable health system for the stability of public finances is. In this sense, the results of the excellent in terms of the consolidation of the hospital system at the level of primary protection and many others have certainly been achieved, that I do not now explain one thing at a time, but there are circumstances as well as economic, so in that sense I could say that some things must be accelerated in some way. Therefore, in these circumstances, in order to implement the programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the conclusion of the Government of 23 July 2010 on the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons from the public... with a view to improving the efficiency and economy of work, as well as reducing budgetary costs, there are further changes. [[You don't understand.]] First, it is arranged to expand the activities of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, since the Croatian Anti-doping Agency is attached to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. We do not have to suspect that if the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, the toxicology institute could have been so successful and effective in the war circumstances that it will not respond to this task as well. The second legislative proposal regulates that on the day of the start of work, the Department of Emergency Medicine and Regional Self-Government is obliged to take over workers working in emergency medical care activities at home, as well as the space and equipment used to carry out emergency medical care activities by the day of the start of work. The third proposed law also regulates that a health care centre may, on the basis of a decision by the Public Health Services Network, be leased to legal and physical persons outside the public health service network, on the basis of a decision by the Governing Council, with the consent of the founders of the business space. It is also possible to hire the home of health based on the decision of the Governing Council, with the consent of the Founder and Minister, a business space for legal and physical persons to carry out non-healthy activities. Furthermore, it is arranged that health institutions can provide social care measures, also very important to say. The fifth is thus determined that the network of contracted subjects of medical work determines the number of healthcare institutions and specialist in private practice medicine, in which the Croatian Health Insurance Office concluded a health insurance contract. The Network of Contracting Subjects of Medical Work, with the opinion of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work, and the competent chambers are brought by the Minister responsible for Health. The sixth, transitional provision in the legislative proposal determines that in the event of the termination of the work of all healthcare professionals who have performed a pharmaceutical activity in the unit of lease of home health, the pharmaceutical activity continues to carry out a home of health. So these are the circumstances, in these circumstances, are, of course, amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act are also coming, so it is proposed that the unique holder of the compulsory health insurance business is the one who implements the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, in accordance with the Obligation Health Insurance Act, as well as the business of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work, which is implemented by that institution, in accordance with the Health and Health at Work Act. Under the proposed law of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute would start implementing on 1 January 2011. It is also proposed to reorganise the system of compulsory health insurance by law that the business of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance start with a degree of effect from outside the state budget 2012. The legislative proposal also changes the time limit of application for compulsory health insurance from the current 15 to 8 days, thus equating the time limit of application in compulsory health insurance with the time limit of application in the mandatory pension scheme. So, of course, as well as logical one consequence of all these ordered moments comes the proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on Health Insurance at Work. It was in the thinking of various thinking that this would bring down quality, therefore, health care at work. I think we are in this direction to speak and this data that and 600 million kuna is foreseen in the budget for next year, and unlike the current 345 million kuna, I hold that, as I said in the correction that one part of the job will certainly no longer overlap between the doctor of general medicine and specialists and medicine work. And I hold that he will not tolerate the system and that he will surely remain at the level as he has so far... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63484	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63485	And for that reason, I will also support these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63486	Thank you. Dear Representative Nedjeljko Strikic is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another set of health laws that regulate the area of health care, while contributing to the improvement and recovery of the economy of the Republic of Croatia. That's why three segments are important here that I'm going to mention, it's that these laws, and especially the Law on Health Insurance at Work, primarily fits into the economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because we're all here and colleagues from the SDP and the opposition said that a lot of agencies, institutions have been made lately, and now that we're trying to connect these agencies and seduce them, it's not good to bring down rationalisation again. So it's never good for them. And that all those who are health laws that are being implemented and that we are adopting have both its purpose and its purpose and long-term objectives and plan are seen from the reform of the health system that began about 2.5 years ago. I'm just going to remind the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, which are numbers that don't lie, that at the beginning of health reform debt in health has reached nearly 5 billion kunas, 4 billion 800 million kunas. Yes, today the debt has been halved in terms of both the long hospital and the debt of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. I would also reply here to Mr Hrelja, who said in his debate that the payment of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance depends also on the goodwill of Minister Shuker. That's really not true and he knows it and here's Mr. Director Strizireb. The Croatian Institute of Health Insurance at the moment of its obligation is all at rest throughout the year this year and last year, the Croatian Institute has settled all its obligations to health institutions. Therefore, this information, Mr. Hrelja, either does not know or deliberately distorts it. I would like to remind you that, with the consolidation of the financial system of health care, there has been a lot introduced here, based on the law passed by this House, newspapers, and so is the new way of financing health homes because we know that health homes, especially all in the Republic of Croatia, have been dealing with losses. Now with a new way of funding it won't be like that anymore. Then, an important segment, which is to improve the quality of healthcare and the availability of information in primary health care, will now have an electronic manual so that the primary medicine doctor will refer his patient to specialists and specialists. And by doing so, we will reduce administrations, as well as the wandering of patients. So we contribute to the quality of health care. What is important to emphasise and why these laws are in line and with the aim of further implementing the reform is the reform of emergency medical aid and the World Bank has approved a $20m loan for the implementation of this programme, and all in order for the emergency assistance to be made available to our citizens when necessary, and the aim is that these are European and world standards for that availability to be within an hour so-called. "Golden standard." We should also note here that when a list of expensive medicines was introduced that are directly paid by the Croatian Institute that do not charge both hospitals and health homes, or patients most importantly, its budget amounted to 4 or 5 years ago 26 million kuna. Today, or this year it will be almost 500 million kuna. This is what this health reform, this government, has made health care available in the most difficult patients, regardless of the financial power of the individual. And we all have to admit that, those are the figures they're looking for. I, too, am very sorry as a health care professional when some colleagues say health care and the highest levels will only be available to the rich. It's really not true, and the people who say it like that or the MPs who say it, I think they're aware they've told the lie themselves, that they've told the truth because it really doesn't work that way. And now I'm going to tell you about the Health Protection Institute at work, and I think it was the most respected colleague, Petir, that we were supposed to discuss today, and say that specialists in medical work in the past three years have really done a great job in handling the health of workers. That this office worked well, that every dime or every money spent in health care at work was well spent. We need to know that medical work is done partly and preventively, and partly curatively. So far, we had practice until the institute began to function that individual employers had to pay for their employees’ checks themselves did not refer them to periodic or annual checks when they had to, so they avoided praying to God that the inspection would not come. With the functioning of this way of funding and the Institute for Health Protection at Work, it is now gone and today all workers with special working conditions are those who need an annual review, this review and get the burden of the employer’s office, which is a redundancy of the economy, and above all contributes to the protection of workers. In the end, we must also say that the overall care of health and safety at work leads to 150 teams of doctors, specialists in medical work, and that is what we must think about, Mr. Secretary of State. Whether this is a sufficient number per million and 200 thousand employees in the Republic of Croatia 150 teams, whether or not to work there, increase the specialisation of medical work and thank again everyone who participated in improving working conditions because we need to know that an integral part of the Work Protection Committee in each company is also a specialist in medical work that they conduct supervision of working conditions. Finally, I believe that the accession of this institution to the Croatian Institute means under a single management, under a single administration only contributes to the rationalisation within the administration, helps the recovery of the economy without having absolutely no impact on the quality of health care of workers at work. And for that reason, I support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63488	Thank you. It's the honorary representative Zdenko Franic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63489	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Here's another law from the real theater of absurds that the government has served us lately. First of all, it should be noted that this package of laws abolishs the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and Health Protection at work, based on some phantom study of the analysis of the system of agencies, institutions and other regulatory bodies which we have not had the opportunity to see, so we can believe that this is a smart move. So now this package of the Law, as already mentioned in the discussions, is parallelly pushing the possibility of renting rooms in health homes to rent so that they can be given to legal and physical persons to carry out non-healthy activities, perhaps, as counterpart Hrelja said to an auto-mechanical emergency service workshop or something like that, or it could be some kind of porn store because it's an unhealthy activity. Let us also remember that we have recently had before us a discussion of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute report, according to which it is white-headed in Figure 5, that the number of users of new disability pensions is increasing exponentially, growing under an exponential law with a high correlation coefficient of 0.96 so that today's situation is such that every 4th regular pension is a disability pension. In other words, the person who enters the labour market and already these persons who are on the labour market have a high probability of 25% becoming disabled. Statistically, if that's not the case, it's just a job for BOOK and law enforcement. However, this was the case in the Report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, so we have a catastrophic situation for the health care of workers at work and yet we are abolishing the Office which oversees the spending of 700 million kuna, which was founded in 2006 by consensus you said it was the right thing to do in the reorganisation of the health care sector, etc. But now we're re-evaluating it all again and at the expense of what I said to a phantom study in which everyone swears and no one has seen it, so in the same package, we've attached one institute to a regulatory body, then to a state administration, and we're asking what's essentially next. Which is essentially next in all of this absurd rationalization. It should also be noted that the suspension of the Office shall result in the withdrawal and cancellation of all applicable implementing acts in force concerning protection at work which have been adopted in previous years on behalf of the Office or related to their activity, and the new ones shall not be prescribed. Therefore, interference is being introduced, extreme uncertainty is being introduced into a whole sector that worked well, and in the end we all agreed on this opposition side and on the part of the majority that this Office has done business transparently, well, that it has spent money wisely and that it has improved the health protection system at work. So one perfectly logical question is why? Why is there even a reform of something, why we all agreed that it worked well, probably because of some imaginary reasons for us, and in the meantime, we reached 13,000 139 regular disability pensions, and how much will God know in 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63490	Thank you. Now it's up to the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63491	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. And today we have before us laws which in this case the Government makes a decision to abolish a Croatian Institute which was founded three years ago and which was then established when it was established to provide general public support. Namely, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Health Protection at Work is an institution which was primarily established three years ago to improve the prevention of health protection at work with the aim of creating conditions for systematic monitoring of work protection conditions, and to prevent statistical monitoring of injuries to work and occupational diseases, as well as costs paid on these grounds. The Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work was founded among other things because of greater transparency. In fact, about 600 to 700 million kuna are collected annually on the basis of a health contribution from 0.5% to prevent injuries to work and occupational diseases, prevention, etc. We know that on the items of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, about half of these funds have been spent on work and now, of course, the question is whether this is actually an elegant way to get all these funds into HZZO and then it will be difficult to monitor whether these funds are intended for real and spent. In addition, it should also be recalled to the government and the entire Croatian public that for this project, the establishment of HZZO and the protection of health at work, the government received EU funding of 2m euros, as it was legislative and institutional harmonisation with EU standards. So I'm now asking the government what it is doing today when we're doing what we're doing to harmonise with EU legislation, now suddenly we're abolishing and we're saying that we don't really need it, and that someone in the government, you don't know who, has done some full analysis of the functioning of the health system, and therefore it's concluded that HHZO and health protection at work is a surplus and that we need to drown it in the Health Insurance Office. Three years ago, the justification for the establishment of this institution was that the implementation of the law in terms of compulsory health insurance and health insurance in the event of injury to work and occupational diseases would result in a more accurate statement of injury to work and occupational diseases, as well as in relation to the use of medical means based on this type of risk. Today, when amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, the Government referred to that programme and the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia after a full analysis was carried out, it appeared necessary to reorganise the health insurance system in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the question is raised, I assume that the representatives of the government present here will answer that question. Who is he and when he did this whole analysis? Is that analysis published anywhere? As far as we know and we have it can be seen today from the media but, specifically, on the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership today, it has been established that these laws have been passed without any consultation with the social partners, nor with employers, nor with the unions. And then ironically someone on that board said that the only thing they managed to get away with these bill proposals was that they were able to unite in their thinking and employers, and trade unions and experts. Because Mr. Secretary of State forgive me, there is something in Croatia called the National Work Protection Council. The National Work Protection Council is the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as far as I know it, and you say it is not true and prove the opposite. They rejected these proposed amendments to these laws. They don't agree with them. Well, it's really not clear to me now, based on what you're going to say, that you're not going to cancel that office, you're going to put it on. How much savings are these, then, and what kind of reorganization is that? In the end it turns out that there will be only one administrative council here in this case of the Croatian Institute less and how much savings these are. And what I want in particular, and I ask for the answer, which is that you have decided, on the expiry of the Health Insurance Act, on the working day of entry into force of this law, that all implementing acts shall cease to apply. Here you listed them, regulations, rules, decisions, general terms of contracts, networks of contracted subjects of medical work, rules of various kinds, etc. Answer, when and within what time you will adopt new implementing acts, because you have not set a time limit in any of the other draft laws when you will do so. Furthermore, in the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance in Article 4, you say that new articles are added, Article 14a, which says this: "In the context of compulsory health insurance for occupational injury and occupational illness measures are provided to prevent injury to work, and measures to prevent the detection of occupational diseases etc." I'm sorry, I'm guessing we're implementing the measures. You forgot one small but key word, implementing measures. Because that means you'll provide the means to implement the measures. The measures will determine someone else, not HZO. And finally, in the existing law on amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, there is one article, which is Article 20, which does not change this bill of yours. But he is extremely important because he is talking about the fact that the insured persons of the institution are being provided in the framework of health care from compulsory health insurance that costs are not paid for, that they are not being provided. Well, gentlemen, in Article 20, the last paragraph says that there is no provision for paying the costs of health services, among other things, from the domain of health protection at work. I can only conclude that someone has written this amendment and the addition of the law very quickly, and I would ask Mr Secretary of State to show himself about this remark as well. Therefore, Article 20 of the existing law, which is not covered by this amendment, was to be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63492	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63493	Dear fellow Sobol, I am pleased that in this temperament debate, you have also pointed to some facts that have not been said in the previous debate, and they are very interesting, especially those about the means for harmonising our system with the EU. Now I wonder how hard it is to make a system that should work, which should give results, which should be motivated by employers or how easy it is to bring it down. Because whoever thinks that this can be done in part of general practice, so in HZZO as in the big system and no specialists should do it, I think they're wrong. And secondly, along with this, it must seem a step back. And secondly, I want to publicly ask myself and you, which message we send to those quality employers who, by investing in the system of protection at work, hope to receive a bonus, not a small one, want to reduce their allocations for this mandatory insurance. Is it okay to leave them without hope after three years, because surely if there are no specialists who will implement this, the HZZO will have neither the strength nor the ability to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63494	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63495	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. Of course, I dare say that even the Government has deliberately silenced the fact that, in the establishment of such a system, funds from the European Union fund have actually been received, and then, according to this, it turns out that we have now done something, closed something, some kind of obligation, and now we can wipe it out with a rubber overnight. I will repeat what I said and in my debate, in the case of amendments to these laws, neither employers nor unions nor experts are consulted. Moreover, the profession gave its negative opinion, and I believe it is a profession, that members and members of the National Council for Protection at Work. In these few years, we all remember who we were here for that debate from 2006. After that, if we are not mistaken, I remind you, we also made a decision on the National Work Protection Day, on April 28th in Croatia. All based on this Croatian Institute of Health Security on work based on a national programme based on the formation of the National Council of this Institute. Unfortunately, however, we are really witnessing today that of all the unnecessary agencies of this kind and this kind are going to end exactly this kind of institution where it is actually in the interest not only to say so but to all the parties in this story, both employers and workers and experts that this story has some logical sequence. In this way, I am afraid that we are completely interrupting it, and I would especially like to emphasise that every transparency in the spending of these funds is lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63496	Thank you. And last in an individual debate, Honorary Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Try, mistake, attempt, mistake, change, supplement, and so on every six months. For the last six years, we've changed the Health Insurance Act 13 times, exactly every six months. So much for the credibility of this law and the mandatory health law on insurance and health care. Of course it creates chaos and chaos. First of all, at HZZO, it's definitely because it's not easy for me for them to follow these changes of law. Secondly, with us medical professionals, with us health professionals and third, with our citizens, so with our people, our citizens, patients who need to adapt to these rapid changes. Let's remember, the laws lasted from 73 days over a few months to a few years. 73 days is anyone's going to pay for the full payment of care costs for pregnant women whether HZZO or employers. With a letter and a number, 73 days passed that law two years ago. The law on medically assisted fertilisation and the Law on smoking ban was amended after several months, and the famous law of zero prominence lasted several years. Yesterday we witnessed that definitely this year and last year, the smallest number of people killed in car accidents was definitely, and that is another proof that the law of zero prominence was not needed because the Hippocrates who lived 453 years before Christ said one glass of wine for health, two for joy, and three more for disease. So it's been 25 centuries, so it's supposed to be in the 21st century just a lot more we know about the bad and good sides of black wine. Unfortunately, the commercialization of the Croatian Health System for the past few years has abolished and well-organised health care of workers. Fortunately, a few years ago, we unanimously, colleagues from the post and we from the opposition, unanimously accepted the establishment of this institution, the Department of Health Protection of Workers. Why, because every other Croat dies and suffers from cardiovascular disease, because today 65 of our citizens will be diagnosed with cancer, and 35 of our citizens will die of cancer today. Some of these will die because of diseases caused by work, why, because there were not enough preventive checks. Third in terms of disability and morbidity and mortality are accidents and just injuries at work. It's a good thing he's finally moving towards emergency medical reform because emergency medical attention mirrored the quality of the health system. In fact, we've all certainly been in emergency care, all of us in this assembly, most of our citizens. We don't need to go to county hospitals, we don't need to go to clinical hospitals, and we all should have gone to emergency medical care anytime. And that's why it mirrored the quality of the health system, and that's why it's a tragedy that we're just starting to talk today about emergency medical reform, something that is in a country like Croatia, a country that is most of its GDP annually separates from tourism, the country's thousands of islands only today, after a few years of preparation of the Emergency Aid Development Strategy. Labour injuries were on a steady rise, employers did not take any financial or criminal risk for injuries or poor health of workers caused by harmful working conditions. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues in the Republic of Croatia are well-standardized mortality rates higher than the EU average of 15 countries for all diseases: blood vessels, tumors, injuries, traffic accidents, diabetes. And therefore, unfortunately, our citizens, our citizens and citizens can expect to be sick for a year longer than citizens in EU countries, both old and new, and therefore unfortunately the rate of mortality in adults is significantly higher than the EU average of 15. While a thousand people die between 15 and 60 years of age in Croatia, 113 people die in old EU members, it means 50% less. The fragmentation and disintegrating of the health system is a fundamental problem of the Croatian system, not a change of law but a good horizontal and vertical connection and therefore it is unacceptable that in 2008, which is the statistics that most recent, unfortunately, was carried out in a specialist institution, either in a secondary or tertiary hospital, comes 1.8 reviews in the activities of general family medicine. When Professor Hebrang was Minister of Health in 1995, that relationship was 3.3 to 1. In other words, in 15 years from one correct ratio of 3.3 to 1 we have reached a catastrophic ratio of 1.8 to 1. So he collects secondary specialist healthcare instead of family medicine doing his job. And that's why today, colleagues and colleagues, our family medicine doctors, due to lack of human resources, are doing and treating only 50% to 60% of their citizens, unlike Europe, where that percentage is 70, 80%. And a third. Hospital system. The last five years have increased hospitalisation, mainly in clinical hospitals by exactly 30%. Source of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, original Croatian Institute of Public Health amazing 30%. And when you put all of this together, primary health care solves 50 to 60% of the cases, clinical hospitals grow 30%, the number of general medical examinations has changed from 3.3 to 1.8 to one is the fact that today's health system is fragmented, disintegrated and the fact that a mosaic should finally be put together. Something that was last to be changed by Mr. State Secretary and colleagues from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is this Law. Because it was corrected by alleged injustices 20 years ago or many years ago, because in this way the number of preventive checks returned to such normal again, and according to the same Croatian Institute of Public Health, the number of preventive checks during 2007 was 85% lower than in 1990. So 85% smaller. And that's why these alarming data that I told you about earlier, and that's why the average citizen of Croatia dies and suffers from cardio vascular diseases, which is why it's big, and we'll talk about it later in the next group of the law on asbestos, and that's why there's an extremely large number of tumors and neo-creations, and that's why our minister from Gospić is dying year after year, because according to the latest census, Gospić had about 12,000 inhabitants, so about 13,000 die annually because of the tumor. Why? Because there aren't enough preventive checks. Why? Among other things, since the number of preventive checks has been reduced by 85%. Why? Because part of these tumors are caused by bad, and we need to talk about employers, Mr. Vice President. So, employers who take no risk on themselves, not just our healthcare professionals and health professionals. And in the end, no less important is our healthcare workers getting smaller and smaller. Our nurses, the midwives, the doctor is less and less compared to Europe. We're behind Europe. The only thing we're good at with Europe, and of course the secretary of state knows very well is the number of dentists. So I appeal to the medical administration that along with the Ministry of Science finally raise the level of enrolment as a doctor who nurses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63498	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63499	Thank you. My colleague Ostojić, you have now reminded me in your debate when you mentioned the frequency of the injury at work of a convenient data which I did not mention in my debate, that in Europe, therefore, in the regulated countries every 15 minutes, there is a single injury at work. It certainly speaks of how big a problem it is and we have now found ways to somehow improve it, to get better, we have found some kind of system that works and it's simply a shame to move it at all now, to go back to the old and all that said three years ago to spit on to get back to the old. Here, that's all I wanted, as an additional comment, to give the ministry gentlemen one more time that maybe you'd reconsider and withdraw this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63500	Thank you. And final review, distinguished Drazen Jurkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63501	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you for your honor. We accept all the good proposals, and we will also accept the good proposals of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. So, your amendments five of your amendments will be accepted in this legislative proposal. Of course it was useful to hear this debate. However, allow me very briefly in a few sentences to once again draw attention to the essential elements of the amendment of this Law, or perhaps it is more important to draw attention to what is not changed by this law, and it is not changed that specific health care is abolished, no specific health care is abolished, no preventive checks are lifted, and all public health care providers involved in this section of health care are not eliminated. Therefore, all doctors of the medical work, all work medical offices remain as contract offices, i.e. contract doctors with Croatian, no longer with the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance at Work than with the Croatian Institute of Health Care. So all the 50 teams we have now, specific healthcare, preventive checks remain. What is changing is only a formal contractor changing in a way that health care and health insurance at work will be an independent department within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Second, what is very important was the transparency of spending. So somewhere in those zeroes, five percent of the contribution is about 600 million kuna. And for the first time ever you have seen that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has in its structure the budget envisioned by those 600 million kunas precisely for this purpose. So far, I would like to remind you that the budget of the Croatian Institute of Health, health insurance at work, was 346 million kuna. So, more than 200 million and 230 million kunas, respectively, are less than that item in the Government of Croatia's budget on the item of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, provided for this purpose this year. Also, let me just take a quick look at the, say, business of the Bureau. So it's not true that this Bureau is doing a positive job. In fact, we have 70 million kunas in debt on a cash-out, which means sick leave, and also in the last three years, so since 2006, we've increased the number of employees in that institution by 90 people. Thus, separations for administration, not only for direct healthcare, are increased by the establishment of this institution. What I know, and let me and as far as I've been able to see, this form of security at work has only Germany. Germany today has 42 million workers, Croatia has about a million and a half. I really don't know, maybe some other country in the European Union has this type of insurance isolated from comprehensive insurance, but as far as I know, this model has only say Germany that has an incomparably larger number of insured workers. As far as renting space is concerned, we certainly had in mind, we've been thinking about this, and I think it's perfectly justified and well mentioned this, so there's a possibility that there's a possibility that these spaces in health care homes can also be rented for unhealthy activity. But I would remind here that in this legislative proposal it is exclusively with the decision of the governing council, so the decision of the home of health, with the decision of the board of directors, with the consent of the founder and with the agreement of the minister. So really if all these four instances estimate that it's better, better quality, more rational to give that space in, rent that space than to stand empty, I really don't think it's going to and can't be a bad decision. And as for the implementing acts, so we predicted that the new implementing acts would be in preparation, they were finished, and they would certainly come into force from 2.1.2011. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63502	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63503	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 648, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of 80 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 34 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63580	Since we are united, you now have a consolidated agenda, these are points 3 and 6 and 7, which means - - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 646, - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers of professional asbestos, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 647. I 9th item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 645... According to Purified Seven, it's written here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 9th point, therefore, of the right to the retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 645. The proposer of all acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Under the point, points 2 and 3 will be discussed by State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Drazen Jurkovic, and under point 7 will be spoken by State Secretary Krešimir Rožman at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you are, dear Drazen Jurkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Very short. It is only a termological and nomotechnical alignment with this previous set of laws, i.e. the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is now taking over the work of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Safety at Work, but allow one more sentence. This year, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance provided 7 million kuna for the compensation of workers with asbestos, and I would only remind that a million and a half kuna was foreseen in the budget of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Protection at work for this purpose. So, in some ways, it indirectly speaks about the quality of health care, and of course, with this set of laws, it really won't diminish the rights or the quality of the health care of our users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63582	Thank you. Now it is time for the 7th point of the esteemed Krešimir Rogman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63583	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the MPs. And this is all about termological harmonisation, or horizontal alignment of this law with this earlier law. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The law on conditions for obtaining the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos said that when it comes to the disease caused by asbestos, this disease is determined, the existence of this disease is determined on the basis of a solution to the recognition of the professional disease of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work. Given the change of these laws, therefore the merger, the abolition of this law, the institution, the transfer of competence to the Croatian Health Insurance Office, is being amended here and will therefore vote that, instead of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work, this is being replaced by the words of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So it's the only change in this law, so only horizontal alignment with other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63584	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorary Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63585	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Compensation of Workers Professionally Exposured Asbesto, with the final proposal for a Law. The Law on the Compensation of Workers Professionally Exposured to asbestos was adopted by the Croatian Parliament at its session on 13 June 2007, and entered into force on 7 August 2007. As we have said in the context of the health reform, according to the proposed reorganisation of the mandatory health insurance system in the Republic of Croatia, and with regard to the proposed amendments to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, as well as the proposed Law on the termination of the health insurance law on health protection at work, this legislative proposal is subject to time-consistency. The Commission shall decide on the compensation requirements set out in Articles 2 and 3 of this Act. The commission shall be established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and shall be numbered by 9 members. It also has: a representative of the Ministry of Economy, a representative of the Ministry of Health, a further representative of the Ministry of Finance, the fourth representative of the Ministry of Justice, the fifth representative of the Croatian Institute of Medicine, the sixth representative of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Health Protection at Work, is the seventh representative of workers' associations of professional diseases caused by asbestos and by 2 union representatives. Administrative and technical tasks for the commission are carried out by the Croatian Health Insurance Office. As regards the entry into force of this law, it shall enter into force on 1 January 2011, and shall not require additional resources from the state budget. As regards the second draft laws amending the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos under P.Z. No. 647 says: The Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos was adopted by the Croatian Parliament at its meeting on 13 July 2007 and entered into force on 7 August 2007. It is arranged that the monitoring of the health status of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, means workers who have a recognised professional disease caused by asbestos as well as diagnostic procedures in the suspicion of the existence of a professional disease are carried out by doctors of medical professionals in a medical institution or specialists of medical work in private practice involved in a network of contracted subjects of medical work. The procedure for establishing and recognising a professional disease caused by asbestos is also carried out by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute under the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. The proposed law also changes the name of the Croatian Institute of Medicine at the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, and in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. And the implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. This law also enters into force on 1 January 2011. The Croatian Democratic Union will support both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63586	Thank you. The second part, in the name of the club, speaks the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63587	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, State Secretary, Secretary, fellow MPs. So obtaining the right to an age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos is governed by the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. Under the professional exposure of asbestos, direct exposure to asbestos is considered to be due to the work on asbestos products as well as the indirect exposure to asbestos due to work in the person who used asbestos in her production. Asbesto was the most used since the late '70s until the early '90s. It was popular as construction material used by almost all construction companies to cover roofs, either as a good thermal insulator or often by making facades or even by installing a pipe into a water system. Unfortunately, it was obviously not taken care of enough and publicly warned about the harmfulness of asbestos, which often caused lung cancer and a series of other respiratory diseases. Although the negative effect of asbestos on health was well - known to the ancient Egyptians who wrapped Pharaoh’s mummies in asbestos because of longevity, as well as the old Romans whose recommendation was never to buy slaves who worked with asbestos with reason that they died very often young. More than 400 people have suffered from this disease in the last 15 years in Croatia. And especially in Vranjica and the Tablets. Croatia's asbestos factories closed and rescheduled asbestos sources especially in the "Salonite" factory as well as other sources of possible pollution. In the EU, asbestos production and use are prohibited. It's trying as a standard to reach zero particles in the air. So the production of asbestos is prohibited with Slovenia and Croatia. In view of the fact that this law continues to apply to the proposed Law on the termination of the Law on Health Insurance of Health at Work, the termological harmonisation is actually carried out so that, within the meaning of this law, the disease caused by asbestos is determined on the basis of a solution on the recognition of the professional disease of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, not the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work as regulated by the applicable law. The adoption of a new law is in line with the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, therefore, the HDZ Club supported this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63588	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63589	At the very beginning of the presentation on amendments to the Law on the compensation of workers of professionally exposed asbestos, I would like to say that the SDP club will not support the adoption of these laws because these laws will in no way improve or improve respect for not only the legal but constitutional rights of workers and workers of professional asbestos in Croatia. We believe that it is normal, even sound to expect that a package of laws that changes this problem should be submitted precisely in order to improve the rights of this extremely vulnerable population, not because of cold, bureaucratic, in the SDP club, we consider even insatiable terminology these 3 laws with the Law on the termination of the Law on Health Insurance of Health Protection of Health at Work. This amendment to the legislation covering labour and other rights of workers and workers exposed to asbestos is another bright example of continued sloppyness and irresponsible behaviour of the HDZ government and their coalition partners who think one month, another month, and all the time are doing something completely third. And all of this unfortunately to the enormous damage of Croatia and all of its citizens and citizens. When we saw that this package of laws was addressed in the parliamentary procedure, we were too early to hope that the government had finally decided to act responsibly towards workers and workers professionally exposed to asbestos, that the government had decided to submit its part of its responsibility to this part of the population, which was permanently affected by health, quality of life, and unfortunately the most frequently and naked life. We thought foolishly that the government had decided to help these people and their traumatized families to have a safer, more dignified and less stressful life-threatening life. We have justifiably expected this because the government for over a year, we would say for two years, provided various trial balloons filled with hope, announcements that it would make key steps on this issue, but this unrepresented package of laws has shown that, as hundreds of times so far, it has been the most common bubbles of pink-colored soaps. Because asbestos is not happening to the government and their families, asbestos happens to someone else and far away from them, which makes it much easier for the Government of the Republic of Croatia so-called. the rationalisation of the state administration to the burden of those to whom that burden should be borne. This package of the Law, which was led by the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Health Insurance of Health Protection at Work, gives the Government a better rationalisation and reduction of the costs of public administration. In what way? By abolishing, pardon the Croatian Institute for Health Safety at Work, the Government's vision is now a unique holder of compulsory health insurance business, or the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. All right, we might think maybe today the purpose of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work is fulfilled. Maybe it's a relic from the period of self-government socialism and the Tavism that has become its own purpose, and this type of rationalisation is justified and the state will save. Yes, we might think so, but it's not because this institute was founded by the HDZ government four years ago, causing chaos, a whole series of problems related to a work protection system that only a year ago has stabilized and started to return to normal. And now again a new shock, in order to so-called. rationalisation is once again fostered by the instability of the system and triggers an entire avalanche of problems, and the result of this amateur experimentation between the rest of Minister Milinovic and the Government, which is blindly behind his standard of catastrophic decisions and the proposal will be an increase, not a reduction of the costs of the system and the difficulty in achieving the right of those whose insurance of such rights is a dry need, which are workers and workers professionally exposed to asbestos and resulting in their traumatised families. This was not expected by the ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry and Government of the SDP Club, not even after three thematic sessions of the Environment Protection Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the problem of asbestos pollution in the Republic of Croatia held only during this 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Obviously resolutely, the Ministry and the Government do not care what is said at the meetings of the Parliamentary Committees and which are concluded in parliament because if they had little respect for the institution of the Assembly then the government would not have referred to such shameful legislative solutions, it would have done something about the concrete financial compensation of workers and workers of professionally exposed asbestos and would have done something about simpler and rational procedures for the determination of asbestos in workers and workers of professionally exposed asbestos. However, the government does not do so, the government connects, or abolishs institutions and seduces under the auspices of the rationalization of public administration creates chaos in the system, ignores the cry of workers and workers professionally exposed to asbestos and their families. Unfortunately, today almost a year after the debate on amendments to the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, we could repeat everything, but just like the SDP said on that occasion. Why? Because the situation remained the same, nothing changed for the better, even as many as in the past year, certainly 10 people died from the result of professional exposure to asbestos, are no longer with us, in vain waiting for justice and justice. Unfortunately, today, the workers of Salonita, and even fewer Vranjica citizens, have failed to fight for their rights in the way that young and unexperienced lawyer Erin Brokovich managed to fight for the rights of victims of mass poisoning of the small California town of Hinkley toxic chemicals Crom 6 used by the Pacific Gas and Electric Corporation in the nearby energy plant. Salonite workers and Vranjica's population can only dream of $333 million in compensation for which Erin Brokovich managed to fight for 634 affected persons in Hinkley. These 333 million dollars gave the Hinkley population an opportunity to treat them with malignant tumors, infertility, and other serious diseases to pay for appropriate health care treatment that can raise the quality of life and extend life. But what rights, compensation or moral satisfaction can be expected for damaged Croatian citizens, a country in which capital owners are often not known and who is responsible for unwitting and immoral business that threatens the social and life security of citizens. From the cases of damaged Salonite employees, Plobest and many Croatian shipyards where the problem of professional asbestos disease is the biggest and I would say the most powerful seems to be the possibility of such compensation in Croatia, despite Article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says everyone has the right to a healthy life. The state provides conditions for a healthy environment and each one is obliged as part of its activities and powers to pay particular attention to protecting human health, nature and the human environment. The case of the sick employees of Salonites, Plobest and Croatian shipyards and their health-threatening families and fellow citizens shows that the Constitution is not respected in practice. Unfortunately, the SDP forecasts from a far away 2005 proved true that the favouring of the HDZ government to tycoon Curkovic would cause environmental disaster and the threat of the health of workers of Salonit and Vranjica, and that the huge damage would eventually be paid by the Republic of Croatia rather than by tycoon Curkovic. The HDZ advantage enabled Čurkovic to import 900 tonnes of asbestos in which the Salonite produced thousands of tons of asbestos-containing products, products that were absurdly and cynically in accordance with the Croatian laws at the time should not be transported, sold or used in Croatia. This means that instead of 900 tons of hazardous waste today, some say as much as 7,000 tons of hazardous waste. This means that the recovery of this waste is just like the damages of asbestos patients due to the failure of state appliances today, and it seems that in the future Croatian taxpayers will pay, not immoral tycoons on the run. The Zorical Evidence of the previous claim is precisely the case of the resolution of the Salonite, financed by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, by the funds of the Fund which are filled with various non-financial commitments paid by polluters and users of the environment, which are almost all inhabitants of Croatia who drive and own cars. The same Fund, in total contrast to the provisions of the Fund Act, paid salaries to the Salonite Workers who again opposed the provisions of the Convention on Safe Treatment of asbestos, worked on the recovery of asbestos waste from the Salonite factory circle and the nearby Mravina coffee plant. It is unnecessarily necessary to say that the stupidity of the state that allowed the paradoxical production of asbestos products to continue in the Salonit probably caused an unforeseeable number of asbestos dust-induced diseases in the people of Salonite, their families, the population within 11 km of the plant. In addition to the personal tragedies of the sick, this country's stupidity will have a great financial price. Who will pay for this, Croatian taxpayers, not immoral tycoons, are known to escape from the Croatian judiciary. With all the cynicism of the Croatian state we could see for ourselves about 10 days ago when a state-run repressive apparatus brought into court a sick activist for workers' rights and workers' professionally exposed asbestos, along with the single father of Mr. Grgu Mandić. And for what? Due to a criminal application for the violation of honour filed against him by tycoon Jozo Curkovic for years, unreachable to Croatian authorities hiding in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Croatian MUP has called for a warrant after him. Unfortunately, neither the government nor the state seems to have learned anything from this judicial travesty, because such changes in the law package make it even more difficult for workers and workers to achieve their rights and justice. Unfortunately, who knows maybe that's the real reason that rests behind these solutions that only trigger new chaos and disorder in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63590	Thank you. Correction, esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Holly made more incorrect allegations. I will look back on only one, where she says that the health minister's irresponsible decisions encourages the instability of the system. That's incorrect. Absolutely, however, the health minister's decisions have achieved the stability of the Ministry of Health and Health System, which is unusually important we have heard these days. Namely, the debt has been halved, the waiting list has been reduced, the expensive drug fund and a number of other things I don't want to list right now. And the other thing you pointed out in this particular case about asbestos is that you said as if the government had given up on those asbestos patients. That's not true. So it's a termological synchronization. So in this proposal, the Law on the Compensation of Professionally Exposured asbestos is said to include a representative of the Association of Workers with Professional Diseases caused by asbestos, two representatives of the trade unions, as well as administrative affairs, etc. So it's absolutely a termological alignment, not a lack of rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63592	Thank you very much. And now, a respected representative, Mariana Petir, is working on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director, MPs and MPs. The HSS MPs' club will support this package of laws ahead of us. Thus, the Law on Conditions for the acquisition of the right to the property of workers of professionally exposed asbestos, then the Law on Amendments to the Law on the compensation of workers of professionally exposed asbestos and the Law on Amendments to the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers of professionally exposed asbestos. As already stated in these three laws, it is a termological harmonisation, so that in terms of these laws, the disease caused by asbestos is determined on the basis of a solution to the recognition of the professional disease of HZZO rather than HZZO to protect health at work as regulated by the applicable law. Therefore, laws are passed by emergency procedure and the State Secretary has already stated in his explanation the reasons for this. I am pleased by the secretary of state that you have accepted the amendments of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and thus in some way resolved all the dilemmas that have plagued us when it comes to the rights of workers to health care and after stopping exposure to fibrogen dust or carcinogenics. So it is clear that by accepting these amendments, and since the disease occurs after the end of exposure, it is important that the HZZO performs this permanent surveillance and that it also pays for that permanent health supervision under the health insurance obligations. And we think that this is very important and that it is necessary, because this is a topic on which we should not be politicised and where I think that we representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament are not only in the Committee on Environmental Protection but we have broadly reached a consensus that these people really need help and I think the results of the work are being seen. I'll say a few sentences about it later. I would just like to remind you that right in our assembly, this problem has begun to be dealt with systematically. And I believe that here are the results that we now have that we will meet specifically all those demands that the workers and the Salonites and the Plobest and the shipyards have presented and put before us and it is our duty to be fully responsible here. I would like to say that there were also mentions of the restoration of the asbestos-free area, first of all a circle of the Salonite factory, the Ant-Coffee, where there was indeed a lot of effort in that recovery, where the state invested financial resources. But I will remind those who are forgetful to remember that we have passed the law that the owner is obliged to return the funds. The fact that this resident Mr. Curkovic was mentioned here on the run and that the demands of us as the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the representatives individually went in this regard to bring him to justice, to answer for what he did and to settle the costs of the recovery. I think that every reason agrees that this area was to be rehabilitated because it was contaminated and that, of course, it was necessary for those workers who were employed in that area to also engage and pay and provide them with their existence. So besides that area, both the Salonites and the Ants' Coffee, the second wound cancer when I talk about asbestos is the issue of the board. And that's where the recovery processes begin. But there are other locations in Croatia that are also critical and they are a priority of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia and their detection and recovery and realization are also under way. I must remind here that we have also shown concern for workers and professionally affected by asbestos-induced diseases by amending the Law on the exercise of age pension rights for workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos adopted in November 2009. I would like to remind you that the average pension for people who were professionally exposed to asbestos was 2 thousand 530 kuna, that we found what the workers were looking for, what the government promised them and we voted 26% supplement, which totalled 3 thousand 187.8 kuna. At the time when we passed the law, the average pension according to the calculation of the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia was 2 thousand 172 kuna 48 limes. And when we add that up, we can say that the workers who were exposed to asbestos received about a thousand kunas per month more than the average Croatian pensioner. However, I would like to warn here that only rare workers will be able to really enjoy their retirement time, because on their lives hangs a sword that is reflected through the repeated expectation of search results and not the very bright future of multiple waitings on exams, therapies, and not forgetting that mental pain they suffer because their health is getting worse every day and they know they don't seem to be getting any better. I will also remind you that asbestos other than asbestos can also cause malignant lung and lung disease. Due to the diagnosis given in determining the professional disease caused by asbestos exposure and as indicators monitored in epidemiological studies, mesothelioma, asbestososis and pleural plaque are taken. We have been following it systematically since 1990, so since then we have actually had one system through which those people who were exposed to asbestos pass, are also registered according to the data we received from the Croatian Institute of Public Health in the period from '90. 456 professional diseases caused by asbestos were reported in total by 2008. The highest number of reports refers to the diagnosis of asbestos, which is 316 cases, in 124 cases pleural plaque was diagnosed in 16 mesothelioma. For the period 1990 to 2008, due to the distribution of the most professional diseases caused by asbestos, it was reported in Split-Dalmatia, then Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Istria County. The largest number of mesothelioma-diagnosed workers were reported in the Primorje-Gorski and Split-Dalmatia County. According to a report by the Croatian Institute of Public Health at the base of hospitalization of Croatia for the period 2002-2008 with diagnosis of mesothelio and asbestos and pleural plaque, 774 hospitalized persons in Croatia were reported. The most people were resident in Split-Dalmatia County. With diagnosis of mesothelio, 592 persons were hospitalized in Croatia and 141 persons resident in Split-Dalmatia County, while 182 persons in Croatia and 51 persons resident in Split-Dalmatia County were hospitalized for diagnosis of asbestos and pleural plaque. The overall gross incidence rate of mesothelioma in Croatia for the period 2001 to 2007 was highest in the Primorje-Gorski, Split-Dalmatia and Istria County. Asbestosis and other listed professional lung and lung diseases, mesothelioma, asbestos, pleural plaque in Croatia are mainly caused by long-term professional exposure to asbestos fibers in the production and processing of asbestos materials. Based on data on the prevalence of occupational asbestos-related diseases, data on the number of patients and treated subjects in the general population may indicate a potential relationship between the number of patients treated due to mesothelioma, asbestos and pleuroral plaque in the Republic of Croatia in the period 2002 to 2008 and the number of patients with the same diagnosis during the same period and according to the county. According to the available data, the largest number of patients was employed in the activities of the production of non-metallic products, the shipbuilding industry and the production of asbestos cement products and other asbestos fibre products. However, exposure to asbestos fibres is known not only to be a professional disease but also to persons living in the immediate vicinity of factories dealing with the production and processing of asbestos-containing products, families of workers working with asbestos, or residents living in close proximity to major intersections and roads. Because of all of this, especially because of the long-term exposure to adverse effects and the long latence of the occurrence of symptoms and the development of the disease, the data shown in the 2010 Croatian Institute of Public Health report show actually the echoes of the past, which is important to bear in mind when considering them. By comparing these data to the number of patients treated for mesothelioma, asbestos and pleural plaque and reported professional diseases in the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2002 to 2008, the number of hospitally treated persons in counties in which more incidences of occupational diseases caused by workplace exposure is visible. This increase in the incidence in the Split-Dalmatia County and the Primorje-Goran region may indicate the possibility that persons who are yet to request the establishment of a professional disease may indicate a number of people in the middle of exposure to asbestos fibers in the environment. As concluded in the report of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the largest number of people hospitally treated with asbestos-related diseases in the period 2002-2008 was reported in Split-Dalmatia County, Zagreb City and the Primorje-Gorski County. For the period 1990-2008 according to the distribution of the most professional diseases caused by asbestos, it was reported in Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. In view of the recognised risk of exposure to asbestos, the Republic of Croatia has provided a ban on any production of asbestos and asbestos, and the activities of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment of the Croatian Parliament and the competent authorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have joined the establishment of certain locations in the Republic of Croatia where there is a risk of exposure to asbestos from the environment. For this purpose, studies shall be carried out at individual locations and shall be carried out and carried out on the treatment programmes of asbestos-free environments. People who have suffered from asbestos exposure are real people, and we have to have a commitment to them, not only as politicians but also as people, and therefore we advocate to pay them the damages they have the right to and, unfortunately, very little time to enjoy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63594	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63595	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government. We have three proposals that concern three extremely important laws, and I think I share the majority opinion that by adopting these laws, the Croatian Parliament has made a maximum effort to help all those people who have been exposed to the negative effects of asbestos, not only in a way that establishes and improves health care and monitoring, or a system of insurance against those persons, but also to allow more favourable conditions for their retirement. But today we talk about making it possible for workers who retire because of the negative effects of asbestos and the health problems caused by it to get about a thousand kunas more than the average is actually sad. For as Patir said, few of them will enjoy their retirement, few of them who have been exposed to asbestos and have a pension. What happened to us with asbestos in Salonita Solinsko is one of the worst and saddest stories when we talk about ecologicality and environmental protection in Croatia. Unfortunately, it was not cut when it was supposed to be and it was unfortunately fed and when the Croatian Parliament banned both import and use and transport of asbestos. And that's exactly what my colleague Holly said about the Benevolence of the Ministry of Health that allowed nine hundred tons of asbestos to be imported. It is a sin which cannot be corrected. And when the promoter comes with amendments and additions to these three laws, and comes for formal reasons for weather harmonisation, then the question arises whether we were not obliged to all those people who suffered to say the word more, to report what we have done so far under the laws that the Croatian Parliament has adopted, according to the last amendments, or according to those standards set out in 2007 until today. That these people who have already been sick or are waiting for the day with anxiety will be told that just one of the diseases caused by asbestos loved them or their friends and relatives who share the anxiety or the misery they suffer, that we have told them that the word more that the state has done to stop them, slow down, and that no more will happen to others. I'm afraid not. The promoter came in with a dry explanation of the terminology. But if we wanted to be as cold as the Proposer said, then we would ask a question and what is actually obtained by this termological harmonisation. So far, neither the promoter nor those clubs that supported me have convinced me how these termological adjustments really correspond to the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme. No, no one has told us what they're saving to do by joining the two institutions, how much less that will cost the state budget, or insurance companies, have we conducted some kind of analysis that may have determined that the two institutions together are doing some things that may overlap, match, they're too high, and the existing capacities allow if these two institutions join together to do it more efficiently and cheaply. No, I don't. Because this is about mechanical mergers as we have had the opportunity to see in recent weeks in a series of other bill proposals that are actually about a formal reduction in the number of state institutions, agencies and bodies, and essentially nothing is changing. Authorization of the Croatian Labour Protection Institute which had to and played the role of a special body is very specific in the case of persons suffering from asbestos and other diseases caused by asbestos, a certain perception that there is a special body, special care and special procedure created among others and for them. He says the proposings of the single office will serve as a special service. And it's not a neck, it's a neck. So, all that has been one institution so far, now within the second institution will be a special organisational unit, not to mention how we actually influence the price policy of medicines by delaying the exit of the Treasury to 2012. So, when these three laws change, questions are raised whether or not we are going to speed up the work of resuscitating asbestos-contaminated environments especially in the salty pool, the Castelan Bay, in the sub-mosoric settlements to which dust has reached at the Rehabilitation of the Moravina Coffee, and experts say both to Omis and all the way to Brač. I would like all parliamentary representatives, not just representatives who are members of the Committee on the Environment, and in this business, it is an honor to have everyone go and experience Vranjic. They go and experience one of the most beautiful places on the Adriatic since 50 years ago, and in the last 50 years of one of the most sad places of death, misery, dirt and to see what conditions these people still live in and in what conditions they have worked for decades. The poor Kaštelan Gulf was plagued by all the trouble from the time it was poisoned by the chemical industry, the cement industry, and the cream on everything was Salonite. Furthermore, the question arises whether we are going to raise the level of health protection of people at risk of asbestos and other asbestos-induced diseases by changing the termological something in these three laws. Also, whether to speed up the process of removing asbestos elements from buildings that surround us, kindergartens, schools, health institutions, as well as water networks. Have we forgotten that most of all the water pipes in the Republic of Croatia are still made of asbestos-containing materials. Of course, there's no wind under the ground, but those pipes are firing, they're changing. The question is how do you master. We are all still sitting together on that ecological bomb, and as long as we do not raise the level of environmental awareness of all of us, including units of local self-government, which are expected to remove asbestos pipes through the operation of municipal companies dealing with water supply and draining, and they have no money for that, so in these situations we realize how big the problem is. And whenever the government comes with something called termological harmony, it hurts. Unfortunately, termological harmonisation will calm the conscience of those who have been given the task of reducing the number of bodies of the state administration, the institution, the agencies. They'll be able to report they've done the job, and statistically speaking, they'll be successful. They will not be able to report that they have improved the business system, the insurance system, the health system itself by bringing something mechanically combined, without publicly showing analysis, and without the conclusions behind which we could stand as a legislator. The cosmetic changes of this type are not what should be met by the Croatian Parliament. In this respect, the HNS and HSU will not support these three proposals for amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63596	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Beus Richembergh, said that no one explained what this termological harmonisation means here. Well, it's very clear, that means supervision of asbestos patients, pension damage, etc. Go on. ... I want some, that's how I'm natural, so I've got a little stronger than that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But it's about the next one. So it further extends the compensation, and very simply so that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute assumes the responsibility of the Institute for Health Safety at Work. That's the first one. And secondly, speak further, which means termologically how to explain the reduction in the price of medicines. Well, the price of drugs is a reduction. The stability of the health system in this respect the fund of expensive medicines is increased dear colleagues, health care is stable, the health system contributes to the stability of public finances, etc. It's the termological thing, and we know it, and we understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63598	Thank you very much. No more club registrations. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Marin Jurjevic, applied. Here you go, colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63599	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The truth is what counterpart Milinkovic said on several occasions that this law solves the question of terminology, but the thing is that he does not solve the problem and there is a fundamental grudge. The fight and the issue of the fight against asbestos, depravation and all that has been happening all these years, and especially has been mentioned here in Vranjic and Salonit, is already something that is known to the entire Croatian public, Vranjic is usually one place on the edge of the city of Split, the beginning of Solin, sometimes Vranjic called little Venice, today he became the concept of everything that is wrong, and it is about asbestos, and unfortunately for asbestos and unfortunately for the fact that the issue of disease and death is no longer an abstraction, but it is a concrete issue and a concrete fact. And this year, in the fifth month, only a few people died of asbestos in Vranjica. I also asked the committee why workers ask the question, and it is illogical for a worker who is entitled to a disability and old age pension at the same time, to think of workers who are otherwise exposed to asbestos, although they are legally entitled to choose more favourable variants in this regard to difficulties. Namely, I often find solutions to disability pensions, which are only solved by those workers with their own lawsuits, with their appeal they can vote for an old age pension if they are more favourable and entitled to it. So I've already mentioned that it's an environment where death is unfortunately a particular issue, so as I mentioned in the fifth month, only in two weeks, unfortunately, five people died. That workers are not satisfied is clear whether, in just these past few months, there have been a lot of things happening in Salonita, from protests of workers, from unions, let's just say the conditional occupation of that area by unions and workers and unfortunately in this whole sad story that I hope everyone cares about to get rid of for the benefit of people who are sick and otherwise to prevent anyone from getting sick of it in the future, and you see some people think the lottery of them 52 seems to me they've got a job at the disposal of these asbestos dumps, which is also very dangerous, and it says what kind of a difficult situation these people are in is also exposed to certain risks. But the question of Joza Curkovic, a man who has been mentioned here several times, and it is about the former owner of the Salonite, who is on the run, who has been called not only by our Croatian emissary, but also by Interpol, who is said to have been able to suck out about 100 million kunas, is indeed becoming one dramatic and absurd not only a question but a testimony about a situation that should not be tolerated because this same gurkovic has sued some people and it has already been mentioned. I would only mention that some people who suffered from asbestos have been sued because of insults, etc., that they were a certain type of repression, and some union activists have been detained by the Croatian police on the basis of Mr. Ćurkovic's actions on the run and are located in the area of the neighbouring state of BiH. He, the normal thing, didn't come to the scheduled hearing because he'd been arrested, but the question really is, when it comes to such tragic and sad things that we're talking about, why doesn't the court drop Curkovic's lawsuit? It is positive that in the meantime Croatia has decided to rise against it also in the absence of the process, but indeed at a time when we are saying that we are going to fight illegality, corruption, anything that is wrong in this society, and that while some people are dying from the consequences of asbestos, which is a matter of long term, which has its own deep roots from earlier on, etc., it really seems to me that it is not tolerable to tolerate the behavior of those who have used such a situation for personal gain, and it was against the law. Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor signed a guarantee last 21 September to the Salonite workers to address their demands. They are seeking compensation from all Salonite workers found in a working relationship at the time of the opening of the bankruptcy in 2004. The problem now arises, the workers are obviously not satisfied with how it is handled, while the bankruptcy manager concluded a deal to resuscitate the Salonita factory’s circle with Adriatic Close, so it was annulled because the inspection found that the company did not have certain certificates, so it did not have permission to carry out business related to asbestos, i.e. to resuscitate hazardous waste. Which brings us back to the point of asking ourselves, so really what happens to us when a situation like this is used in such a way that we begin to doubt why it's given to this company, is it again an unfair, illegal act. After what my colleague Mirela Holly said, nothing special should be added. I would say in the end because of the general climate in which all this is happening, and deeply convinced that everyone who sits here wants good for these people and that no one gets sick anymore, that all of us together and we here who are in the Croatian Assembly can allow some supervisory board members of the Salonite Supervisory Board will not be responsible for sucking up 100 million kuna from the Salonite, and it has been raised and the process has begun. And then, look at the wonders, there's been an out of date because there's been no hearing in the course of four years. So, in this tragic situation, I don't think we should let it fall doubt that we tolerate someone using a situation like this to make a fortune and work against the law. So, this law is true, it's a synchronization of terminology, but it's really not just about terminology, it's about one deep core thing that my colleague Mirela Holy was talking about. And I wouldn't have anything to add anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63600	Thank you very much, fellow representative. The next debate was registered by a respected counterpart, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here's my colleague Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63601	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So I think that in the course of the debate, I would really not have had anything special to add, and I would agree with my colleague Jurjevic that anyone who sits here wants to do well for these people, of course, and compassion for these people. And I can say a few things when I sign up. That asbestos is therefore asbestos and asbestos minerals are a group of natural, magnesium-silicate fibers which in their composition have silicon dioxide, magnesium, cobalt, manganese, chromium, etc. And the most common form of asbestos is white asbestos crisis, blue asbestos amocite and crocidolite. The use of asbestos is quite large in many areas, the most common in shipbuilding, auto-industry and fire. Of course, it is estimated in the world that around 2 to 2.5 million workers are exposed to asbestos and asbestos minerals. And one information that says that the prevalence of benign lung asbestos disease depends on the exposure of workers, on the intensity of the duration of exposure and the latent period of disease. What he means is that this asbestos also causes benign diseases, of course malignancies, which was spoken of by her colleague Petyr very clearly and precisely. The unquestionable fact is that people exposed to asbestos live shorter, suffer from chronic obstructive disease and malignancies and, in any case, they must be given adequate care. In that sense, this government, and we, here this assembly of Parliament, have passed certain laws, but of course we must not stop at that, but we must continue to improve this area and care for these people is permanent and permanent. And in this part, I hold that it doesn't stop but it will just continue and, as the predecessors said, it's a termological alignment. Therefore, since this Health Safety Act takes over his work Croatian Health Insurance Office in this regard and on the supervision of asbestos patients and on compensation and pensions, I think it is very clearly regulated in these amendments to the law. So, as far as the compensation is concerned, we have said that it is arranged for damage claims to be resolved by the Commission for the resolution of the damage claims made by representatives of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the representative of the Croatian Institute for Health Protection, Safety at Work, the representative of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the representative of the Associations of Professional Diseases caused by asbestos and two representatives of the trade unions. So it is very clear what these tasks are. Also with regard to supervision of medical work, etc., surely everyone must contribute to the proper implementation, and I think the biggest gain in that part is that the use of asbestos is prohibited and in that part that I think all of this can contribute to and protect the patients from asbestos, and for that reason I will support these amendments to the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63602	Thank you. It is further discussed by esteemed colleague Zdenko Franic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63603	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Regarding this package of laws, one question arises, how their acceptance will improve health and... We are discussing termological changes in the Law at the same time as, for example, at at least two Zagreb hospitals, there are still asbestos panels as roof covers. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] And to be absurd, one of those hospitals is the Jordanian lung disease hospital. I guess you can provide adequate help right away. It is indeed hypocritical of us as legislative authorities, given the time not to improve the entire system of protection of people and the environment from this danger. It's like we weren't even aware of the general public, which is a threat to asbestos. Here must be Mrs. Jurak and FIMI's press campaign for asbestos harmfulness and FIMI's media has been paid 5.6 million kuna for some campaigns and, among other things, for this. Here is the most direct link between asbestos and FIMI media and harmfulness and consequently we are discussing some termological fines without really doing anything to improve the status of those people who are recklessly and indiscipline certain tycoons. So nothing seemed to repair the condition of asbestos patients due to negligence, indiscriminateness, and the withdrawal of money from certain tycoons. Why is it not, why is it not heard here that there are people working on improving the system that a system of measuring asbestos particles in the air has been established which was not an easy task for the Institute for Medical Research and Working Medicine as a scientific lever of the doctrine of public health to have opportunities and skills and, unfortunately, not enough resources to carry out measurements of the concentration of asbestos fibers in the air in order to result in decisions on the recovery of endangered areas. However, we have done nothing to improve these processes through the legislative initiative, to provide even greater support to the prevention of the harmfulness of asbestos resolution as I said critical points in Zagreb itself, and probably not at other Croatian hospitals is a very different situation and we are discussing termological finess rather than the government being manifested when it will give funds to resuscitate roofs in Croatian hospitals, rather than that money intended, which could improve the system of girls through FIMI media and corrupt tycoons. Honored gentlemen of the State Secretary and dear fellow MPs and MPs, this is really about one absurd, absurd set of laws that no longer need to be lost words to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63604	Thank you very much. We have one replica reported, colleague Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63605	Col. Franić, you say that FIMI media should have helped in this case a big campaign, of course, it was not only shown when it comes to environmental problems, as you heard today Mr. Mladneo, the head man of the Energy Efficiency Fund, because it is obvious that the funds in the PET packaging campaign, I only hope that the USKOK investigation will go in the same direction as Jolly's famous friend, Minister Ivan Shucker, were paid such large bills for the purchase of PET packaging and it was possible that the fund of so many hundreds of millions of kunas would actually be used to buy more than 100% of the existing PET packaging in Croatia. This proves that when it comes to asbestos and when it comes to PET, the whole system can chew in all kinds of ways and draw money, and yet it goes on the back and on the misfortune of those who are sick and who are actually suffering from environmental pollution. But here's a specialist who knew how to get the state money. I hope that Uskok knows how to trace where that money ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63606	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63607	It is, but it is extremely hypocritical to finance the asbestos harmful campaign if, for example, that money could be used for the recovery of roofs, such as the Jordanian Hospital for Lung Diseases.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63608	Thank you. The esteemed colleague Ivan Bagaric also applied for the debate. Here you go, colleague Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here today we dearly respected colleagues and colleagues listened and talked about the harmfulness of asbestos, and I don't think we should say another word at all, because we're all aware of it. But I think it's time to repeat a sentence that I've already spoken several times here in the Parliament, which is actually a folk proverb that says, "It's more worth the help than a thousand kunas of compassion." Therefore, these three laws, including compulsory health supervision of persons who are professionally exposed to asbestos, then their compensation and obtaining pensions, are in fact the way in which these people can and should be helped. So I think it's our role that if we can't solve a particular problem completely to the extent that, in some ideal conditions, we could do it, do what we can and do. Therefore, as part of the overall reform of the health system, I welcome these three laws, and I believe that they are of particular benefit to people who are professionally exposed to asbestos. So let's stay away from compassion one more time, give our support. Here. Very short my exposure in terms of supporting the representatives of the ministry and the government for these three laws which are a significant support to people who deal with asbestos and who will be helpful to them and I do not understand those who did not support these three laws because they are indeed beneficial to all those who are exposed to asbestos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63610	Thanks a lot, buddy. And the last application for an individual debate, distinguished colleague Rajko Ostojic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hundreds and thousands of asbestos patients are statistics. Tens and hundreds of people killed by asbestos are also statistics, but disease and don't give God the death of one person of asbestos is a tragedy, a tragedy for that person, a tragedy for his family, a tragedy for the health system and the state that allowed it, it's a tragedy. And I completely agree with my colleague Bagaric, let's stay away from compassion, let's support. Guy Julius Caesar is in the Roman Senate, and the Senate has said as the Croatian Parliament long ago, "All of you who are engaged in public affairs intend to be angry, stay away from anger, avoid compassion, avoid mercy, use reason." And for all this and anger and anger and mercy and compassion there are other temples, there are other places. And were we reasonable three years ago when the then Minister of Labour and Health allowed the continued production of asbestos in the 21st century? Three years ago in the Croatian state. Was there mercy, anger, anger, compassion, support when we allowed in the 21st century and fellow Kunst made it very clear that in ancient Egypt asbestos was used in ancient Rome, and you all know very well that early and middle of the last century asbestos was the cheapest building material and that there were countless skyscrapers in the United States and in Western Europe made of asbestos, that undoubtedly a lot of water pipes made of asbestos, because it was cheap because it was bad. And today when you go to those places when you go to those concert halls, I like to tell my students when I was a student when I ran out of money in America. I'd go and watch hotels, and every hotel has a record that says this hotel contains asbestos. And if you're a good negotiator, you can get a $1 00 room for $15, because they protect their health, because you're negotiating with the front desk and every receptionist knows... as long as he can go. So in organized states they're aware of what they've done. Okay. 100 years ago, we didn't know anything about asbestos, but it was cheap, we were building. But then and now there these places, these institutions mark, destroy, change, and as counterpart Franic said, two large Zagreb clinical hospitals have asbestos covers. And just because we didn't give support three years ago, this law is hypocritical. Three years ago, Minister Vukelic, then, seems to me to be the defence minister now, I find it difficult to follow his resume at all, allowed his production to continue in Salonita Vranjica. It happened before in Plobest in Plobes, and that's why I stress every disease, every death in the 21st century of people around the world from asbestos is a tragedy for that person, a tragedy for that family, a tragedy for that health system and a tragedy for that country. And all those who allowed it a few years ago must be deeply, deeply imagined. That's what I said earlier. On this trail, it is saddened to abolish or connect the Health Protection Institute, on this trail that 35 of our citizens died of cancer today, on this trail is that today of 35 of our citizens who died of cancer some of them died of lung cancer or meseslioma pleura caused by asbestos. Because asbestos isn't just Salonita Vranjic. Asbestos is particles that have reached Split. And all MPs and representatives from Split must take care of that. And the goal of zero particles in the air in Split and in that part of Croatia will not be reached very quickly. Therefore, once again, my colleague Bagaric, I agree, without hatred, without anger, without anger, without compassion, with no mercy left temples for it. We should speak with reason here, that's why we're parliamentarians, but remember what you did three years ago. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63612	Thank you, colleagues. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing under this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met and I'll conclude this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63613	We move on to the final draft law amending the Law on the compensation of workers of professional asbestos. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 646. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 85 votes in favour, no abstentions and 37 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63682	We move to the next one, which is - Final proposal of the fiscal responsibility law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 659 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We received the acts by mail. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this law and the proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Reports from the board's session were received as well. On behalf of the promoter here is Secretary of State Zdravko Maric. Secretary, would you like an introduction? Yeah. State Secretary Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Very short few words about the proposal for a fiscal responsibility law. I think there have already been a lot of speeches about him and in general in our public which are the basic motives and reasons why the government decided to refer, to propose this kind of law. What should certainly be said is that we, as well as many Member States of the European Union, have recognised the importance of this kind of law. Among other things, you and yourself know that this law is one of the same measures, and I would say that is one of the key measures of the Economic Recovery Programme. What's important is that these proposals for a fiscal liability law are two sets of measures that are proposed. One set of measures concerns so-called. fiscal rules, therefore, which relate exclusively to, we can say, the result of the overall fiscal policy or the implementation of the budget relating to the movement of total expenditure, and also the indirect deficit, and also the indirect and public debt. According to the provisions of this bill, at least 1 percentage point per year in percentage of gross domestic product should the expenditure side of the budget be reduced. It should also be said that I would say a short period or a short mid-term, our intention is to bring the primary balance to the levels we had before the crisis or balance. So the primary balance is the overall result of fiscal policy without calculating interest, and then what our intention was and I would say before the crisis and which is also in line with the Stability and Growth Pact, which is that the overall result and fiscal policy are being managed and that it is seen how and how it happens and what happens with the economic cycle. So that term is so-called. A cyclically adjusted deficit that is as important as such and which in some ways actually enables an additional room for fiscal policy in terms of expansions and conditions of recessions, and also in some ways actually brings that so-called. a stabilising function of public finances. As regards this second set of criteria or measures, they focus primarily on strengthening fiscal discipline, which will contribute among other things to ensuring and maintaining fiscal discipline, transparency and medium- and long-term sustainability of public finances. What is important to say, therefore, is that this law introduces additional mechanisms to control the use of higher-level budgets to end-users themselves. It is also important to mention the introduction of a declaration of fiscal responsibility signed by all leaders, thus confirming the legal, deliberate and meaningful use of funds, i.e. the effective and effective functioning of the financial management and control system. The same thing that is foreseen by this bill, which we will, of course, discuss in this House and on the parent committees before that, since reports on the implementation of the Fiscal Responsibility Act or the application of fiscal rules will be kept under constant monitoring and reported by the Croatian Parliament, of course in accordance with the reports on the implementation of the state budget, therefore half-yearly and annually. And finally, let me just say, on the question of either a comment or a suggestion on how this law is passed and, for the first time, introduces responsibility in terms of the use of budgetary resources, alluding to the fact that these responsibilities have not been so far. Certainly, we cannot accept this as an argument, or what is important to say for this law, so that certain rules or certain measures and rules used in terms of fiscal responsibility for this law are further clarified, further stressed, and in terms of fiscal rules and further strengthened. You yourself know that already in the existing Budget Law there is a provision in fiscal rules that the total level of public debt must not exceed 60% of gross domestic product. These rules as defined and set out in the proposal of this law certainly make sure that where and where these rules apply more. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63684	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63685	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Act for several reasons. First of all, we believe that the real values of this law are to further strengthen financial discipline and accountability for the proper and transparent spending of budgets at all levels and for all users of the state budget, especially as regards the level and purpose of funds, which prevents the excess of the planned amount of spending and changes in the purpose of their use. Secondly, the law provides for precise fiscal rules and rules to strengthen fiscal responsibility which must be followed by budgetary and extra-financial beneficiaries of the state budget. Third, regardless of the level of government of state and local administration and self-government, each year is required for the previous financial year for the period during which he has acted, that is, to draw up a declaration of fiscal responsibility by the head. Fourthly, the Head of the Declaration confirms that the funds will be used legally, intentionally and purposely by means, to enable the effective and effective functioning of the financial management system, as well as the control under the budget or financial plan of the determined funds. In addition to the statement by the leaders, the plans to remove weaknesses and irregularities, the report on the weaknesses and irregularities identified the previous year and the opinion of internal auditors in the financial management and control system for the areas audited in the previous year are also to be attached. It is important to point out that when it is established that a leader has violated the provisions of this law, he will put his mandate at his disposal in accordance with the regulations governing his choice or appointment. Therefore, political responsibility is introduced as another component of each leader's personal responsibility for a sound establishment of a financial management system that is a prerequisite for legal and effective use of public money. Finally, it should be underlined that the adoption of this Act contributes to the implementation of fiscal consolidation and implementation of the government programme strategy for the period 2011/2013. but also measures from the government's Economic Recovery Programme. Its medium-term character and comprehensiveness of the implementation of a wide range of activities, measures and processes in order to effectively manage public finances. On the basis of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives will support the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Act by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63686	Thank you, colleague. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Slavko Linic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63687	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Fiscal Responsibility Act proposed by the Government as a newspaper and, as we have heard from the rapporteur himself, for the sake of significantly modified economic circumstances, the need for fiscal harmonisation and fiscal consolidation, and in particular for the implementation of measures and processes aimed at effective management of public finances and the implementation of fiscal policy in line with best practice. Now, if that's why we're bringing this law, bringing it in by emergency procedure, here I'd say late at night with probably five, six debates, then there's still something not real about it. A law like this quickly with five, six discussions brings together the Croatian Parliament, and so important assumptions. Then at the SDP club, we really asked ourselves whether it was true that in 2011, the law would have an impact on fiscal consolidation, on processes, measures and activities, and everything focused on effective public finances management. We in the SDP club clearly conclude this Law in 2011 will have no effect whatsoever. They won't have them. If that is true, then we wonder why we bring it in if it is so important and if first of all it can have a long-term impact on such changes in Croatian society why we bring it in one reading with such a small debate and late in the evening. There's no impact next year. Well, then let me try to explain on behalf of the club why they won't have any influence. First of all, the most important thing is probably Article 5 of the printed rules that speak about the need to seriously reduce the fiscal deficit by 1% on the basis of this document and eventually reduce it by 1% year-on-year. We have a reverse image before us is the adoption of a budget in which we have a sudden jump in the fiscal deficit as a solution to the enormous differences between income and expenditure. We've got a jump, so it's the opposite. And by the way, when we apply Article 13, then we see that the bill promoter didn't even mean to apply fiscal rules in 2011. So, the most important provision of this Act that tries to talk about how we will behave from the level of the state is not applicable but in 2011 but in budget projections for 2012, 2013 and 2014. So Article 15 does not apply in the following year. However, I would say the promoter has shown us how the deficits can cover the holes and I would say failures in fiscal policy, but the good part of how we are essentially treating the apparent economic crisis we have in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we also have an article 9 which discusses which reports we will discuss, so it is evident that Article 9 also does not apply in 2011. Why? Because the debate on these fiscal rules will follow a half-yearly report and a final report on the budget. So if we remember a half-yearly report for this year, we've discussed the 17th of this month. Therefore, if we would like to discuss a half-yearly report, and nor is it an obligation because Article 5 does not apply, that is the end of next year. It's election time, I doubt we'll be able to discuss the half-yearly report openly regardless of what level. And the final report will be deep in 2012. Therefore, Article 9 states that there is no need for haste and that the application of the most important part where you can specifically conclude on the basis of the reports that we will not have any application in the following year. And then comes the highlight. We agree with the proposal of Article 12 in which we say the Government will not agree until the next 4 months and define with its rules what the statement will look like and define the closer application of this Law. We're giving the government four months to talk about how tomorrow we'll coordinate our activities with this law. The Croatian Parliament completed the agenda with this point a few hours ago, we are discussing an emergency procedure, and where is the urgency. Someone had to explain to the SDP club where this urgency was. There are no applications in 2011, and we give the Government four months to prepare the documents on this Act, and we have to discuss a few hours after adopting such an important law without being able to try to fix it, try to supplement it, to really show that we are serious about the adoption of this law, and then that is the conclusion of the SDP club that this is more about some PR promotion, not serious work on financial consolidation. And also Article 8 that says that the government is obliged to propose amendments and only in certain, changes in the budget only in certain cases, listed, that I am now not repeating what it says, and is obliged to propose. Well, when you read it very clearly, I say it won't happen next year, it won't be done by the government, why? So you see parallel to this document we also have the budget law. Will he be worth next year? It will. So for next year, we have a budget law. What are the characteristics of this law? So remember article 7. What does Article 7 say? The government has the right to redistribute every position on its own. Every position. What does that mean? Is the government obliged to propose budget rebalancing? It's not. He can redistribute any position. If he redeploys every position, where is the head's responsibility, is there any governing body or ministry? Well, there isn't, and they'll be redeploying in 2011 and there's no application of this law, and we're in such a hurry. We want to talk about article 11, which speaks of the budget stock, so it is determined at an amount of 230 million kuna, without any distribution. How will that be deployed? It's one-off money, 230 million, and we only have an item in the Budget Implementation Act. Even the prime minister can own up to 500,000 on her own. So is the law in line with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 500 grand, so that's a huge power. That we have so defined in the Budgetary Act. Did anyone realize that the Law on Budgeting for next year could not have been in that text if we wanted to show completely different behaviors. Or we don't think the Prime Minister can do it on her own without having to account for 500 grand, the minister seems to me to have a hundred thousand, 230 million of us don't know how to deploy. No one. There is no such thing in the documents, nor in the budget, nor in the law of execution, and at the same time we are talking about a document about how we should behave. And listen the same is Article 28, 29, the government can be in charge, the government can essentially say I would say not to execute the items as said if we have exchange rates, etc., and they will allow us to talk about planning, about how it should look, and then we must also predict exchange rates and duties. Therefore, two documents for the following year that are completely contrary, the vast powers of just the central government, which makes it clear to the government that it does not think in the coming year, and that it is not mandatory, and that I am saying that redistributions can protect any head of state who essentially deviates from certain spending. It's very important here when we speak in the logic of spending funds on purpose spending, so I wonder if we've read together the state audits. 90% of cities and municipalities are not purposely spending their resources. Did we ever wonder why that was? Because they're irresponsible, irresponsible, or is there some other reason? So if you had seriously entered into the analysis of state audit findings, then you would see that we still have a relapse of socialism, the basic income of cities and municipalities of municipal compensation that otherwise exists in Europe, in the world, and in fact after 20 years of democratic Croatia, abandoning socialism we were unable to define what is the basic revenue of the budget at local and regional self-government levels, and it is evident that this communal compensation cannot be, and that this is the reason why the need for education has increased, for investing in education, for health care, for pre-school education, for social education, there is not enough resources in income tax, and then there is unintended use. Did we realize that it is our obligation to bring Croatia into line with European practice, to bring it into line with the laws, and only then impose certain obligations, rather than politically just condemning those who are unable to comply with economic business or, say, market business with socialism relapses that we haven't changed in 20 years. You see, there's another question then, for us in the SDP, the biggest problem is non-payment, the enormous amount of unpaid bills, really enormous, we see increasing amounts of unpaid liabilities to taxes and contributions, and then whoever asks himself what we're going to do with this law, we conclude that many will negotiate obligations, they won't recognise works, they won't pay them, we're going to strengthen indifference. We didn't define responsibility for that. We didn't define in the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The SDP Club has proposed a bill on payment deadlines. Why didn't we try to get some of these provisions into the Fiscal Responsibility Act? Because it's not just about planning, it's about responsible execution. So we were witnesses of the Croatian road did not get or Croatian, all the companies in the road construction did not get the money because INA did not pay, did not pay the bills, but they agreed the works. A year of indifference was a problem created by the Croatian state itself. At this point, more and more of the employers' accusations are going to create Croatia's liquidity moving from the state, and yet we are not installing it in one such document, because it is quick and evident that we could seriously discuss this document to try and install elements not only about planning, but also about how contracts are signed and how payment deadlines are executed and how it is difficult to pay. Because let's be honest, the bigger the problem will be on local units. Why? So listen to the higher commitments, and at the same time the less income, and there will be no payment, obviously that's the problem we should have talked about. And of course we cannot agree with the assessment of the situation, the conditions for introducing this are the Croatian economy, the crisis, and the assessment that the global economic crisis is the condition of these disturbances in the Croatian economy. With such a misrepresented thesis of our problems, it is evident that the solutions in this law are not responding because we do not want to talk truthfully about our personal problems – a small number of employees, a huge number of pensioners, a huge number of unemployed, a growing labour activity, a tax invasion on me would say the economy, etc., etc. And if we had set that up, probably the law itself would have been different. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP club, we will really make a contribution like this to the proposed law which will not solve anything, which essentially the central government does not commit in the coming year at all, we will not give consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63688	Thank you. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do to correct the incorrect allegations of Agent Linic who said that this law will not have an impact on the 2011 budget and that it should not be brought in by emergency procedure, which is really not true. And why is that? Because if we go about what was the objective of this law, which means further strengthening financial discipline and responsibility for the proper and transparent spending of funds, and if we see who means it must be used. So, state budget, ministries, budget users, as well as local administrations and self-government units. And we are now at the moment when units of local administration and self-government are making their plans, right, bringing their budgets. And it's important that they already know what they're going to be waiting for, that they're going to have to make that statement. Therefore, when they prepare their budget for the municipality, the cities will have to make sure that they have political and moral responsibility, that if they do not meet what they propose, they will have to give a mandate at their disposal. And that's why we need an emergency procedure. So, as far as the ministry is concerned, we've been mostly aware since Mrs. Jadranka Kosor as Prime Minister of how much she's done on the rational use of the funds, so there's no non-intentional. This is more about, in my opinion, the problem with local administration units and self-government. There will be a problem, they must already know what awaits them. And therefore, and now it is necessary to pass that law that they propose it, so they propose their budget to the councils that will later be able to justify it, or that they will not have to resign then, and I know, to make the mandate available. In that, here's what I read... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63690	Thank you. HNS-HSU representative club, colleague Zlatko Koračević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63691	Thank you very much. It's really hard in this bill, it's hard to find even one good position, at least one point where there could be a logic of something that's been going on all these years and something that's been proposed. Following an emergency procedure, we pass a law that obliges a future government, not only which, but which has been going on since 2012, it brings or proposes a better wording of what is at the end of the term, and what is this mandate, not only for 4 years but for 8 years, I think it is a shame to waste words and that the citizens of our country unfortunately feel very painfully in their daily lives. The law, which states: "The law also lays down fiscal rules within which the government will implement its fiscal policy, and the aim is to reduce deficits to allow consumption to be fully financed from revenue." This is really hypocritical, this is really one marketing prank, this bill is usually a marketing prank, but very irresponsible, extremely irresponsible to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What have we had so far? In fact, tomorrow's budget is being passed and tomorrow the ruling parliamentary majority will bring that budget. What is this budget known to all of us, but it is also known that in the term of office of this government since 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 that in the four-year term the government has set off at 108 billion, I am talking about the starting position of 2007, with 108 billion revenue and will end its term of office with 107 billion income, if, if. That the battery of the budget minus in those 4 years is 40 billion. So what have we been doing so far? Is it all the world's crisis? And Racan's government, normally, is the Racan government's fault for everything. And did we have adequate fiscal rules over the past 4 years to implement fiscal policy in order to reduce deficits in order to enable consumption to be fully financed from revenue. And now, at the end of the term of office where incomes are shrinking, not only is the deficit increasing but the revenues are also decreasing, we are passing a bill like this that will bind someone in the future. I don't think we've had a marketing prank like this in the Croatian Parliament for a long time, and we haven't heard this kind of marketing prank in the sense of the message in a long time, but this is really one of the strong and significant ones. This bill will control budgetary users, public companies, extra- budget users, which is good, which is very good. Some extra budget users who receive substantial funds that are even at their absolute height twice as high as the annual budget of the tourism ministry have never spoken a word about it. And the question of whether or not any control has been made against these extra-accounted users who receive their apothecary annually. Whether it is spent transparently, whether it is spent useful, otherwise the evaluation system, the evaluation system invested by each kuna of taxpayers that is invested in something, it does not exist in us, that is, with us unknowns, among other things, and that is why the percentage of the use of pre-accession funds and the preparation for structural funds is extremely bad because we are simply not taught about one system that controls, evaluates and evaluates in all stages the money invested by budget users. That this proposal is a hypocritical marketing prank is referred to in Article 6(2), which states that the proposed legislation on regulations and other regulations and acts by the Government, or proposed by the Government at the Croatian Parliament, cannot be adopted or established without the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the statement of financial impact assessment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition to the proposals for regulations and other provisions of the government's planning acts, and with the draft laws and acts of planning proposed by the government to adopt the Croatian Parliament, all senior bodies of the state administration and the professional services of the Government are obliged to submit a statement on the indicative impact assessment and the rules and statements on the assessment of fiscal impact. I'm reading from my colleague's office. I'm reading from my colleague's office. Have we had this before? Now I have two questions. When we received any draft law and statement of financial impact assessment, which is the government's obligation to the Rules of Procedure. And now we include this same story in Article 6(2) of this bill. Article 3. During the implementation of the State budget, the Ministry of Finance may carry out financial control of the legal use of budgets by the budgetary user, the State budget and the budgetary users. And what does this word in there mean? Does he have to or does he? If you can do it by what criteria? Are they common, which is party obedience or similarity, are these criteria? I personally believe you don't. But the fact that it can, it doesn't say how, by what criteria? By which criteria the Ministry of Finance can carry out its financial control... of the budget. And finally, let's not be too long in these late hours about something that really offends the common sense, the legislative proposal that's being passed by emergency procedure, was on the parent's board this morning, now in the debate, a legislative proposal that gives space to the government to make implementing regulations and a law that will bind a future government. I repeat, it does not matter which and is proposed by the government at the end of its mandate and ended the mandate in a way that has created a budget minus 40 billion in 4 years, and the global economic crisis is at stake. Everything. It's hard to believe. And lastly, in this government, the same people who have spent all these years of politics are the same. So where were they so far? The subsequent mind or current prime minister of the government, simply in that composition when she was vice president, had no opportunity. So if it was necessary for such a change to come with a delayed time to delayed mind and willingness to do something useful for this country then it was useful. But we're all aware that this is one marketing prank, one hypocrisy, and that this is something that essentially doesn't link everything we've had so far, starting with a state audit, an institution system like that can often say or speak. And not to mention the budget law that regulates all these elements, which tells all these elements and gives opportunity and opportunity. I would like to remind you of the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement, even three years ago we asked to talk in the Parliament about the business of public enterprises. Your colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary majority did not support us. It is now your proposal and it is good that your proposal is but believe that three years ago we talked about it more strongly, that one significant part, very probably, should not mean, but very probably one significant part of the management of public companies slept more peacefully today, and perhaps some would not be Remetinca residents as they are from day to day, and all of these are budget or extra- budget users. If this law will prevent such things, which I doubt, it is hard to believe, but it is certainly very difficult to support such a bill, and it is very difficult to support irresponsibly in the context of this Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63692	Thank you. Two colleagues reported a correction to the allegations, first of all a respected colleague, Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Koračević, several times incorrectly reiterated that this is a marketing hypocritical hoax, that the adoption of this law is irresponsible to the citizens of Croatia. On the contrary, Mr. Korachević. On the contrary, since the fundamental objective of adopting this law is to regulate financial responsibility, it will, among other things, prevent non-transparent spending of public money. Unintended or illegal use and spending of public money will be prevented, which will certainly be an important instrument, an important tool in the hands of citizens in the areas of local and regional (regional) self-government units, i.e. the municipalities, cities and counties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63694	Thank you. A colleague of Vesna Buterin also volunteered for the correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Koračević says this law is a hypocritical marketing hoax. That's completely incorrect. This law is about efficient and responsible spending and managing budget money, but not only the state budget money but what is even more important to budget money at local levels. Because you see we have a lot of situations at local levels where the budget is planned very unrealisticly, where citizens are promised everything and everything. And of course, after these commitments and promises cannot be met, they reach for the unintended spending of budget money or illegal spending. And it's the mirror of some local self-government leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63696	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate because the clubs are no longer registered. First came the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, fellow Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63697	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. After discussing the state budget only a few hours after being sent to Parliament and included in the agenda in the same way, we are now discussing this law, which the Government says is crucial to fiscal discipline. This only shows the impotence of Parliament and its role, which comes down to staging and raising hands to vote the proposals coming from the government. To accept the suggestion that this law goes into two readings, we might come up with a quality proposal. There may be a need to change some other regulations. But the first sentence of this law is that it's not really an intensity. It is said that under the conditions of substantially modified economic circumstances and the necessary fiscal consolidation, this is one of the key measures of the Economic Recovery Programme. And fiscal discipline is the rule. Fiscal discipline is what must be in every condition and good and bad economic climate. I mean under fiscal discipline responsible planning, responsible implementation of the budget at all levels, but also enforcement of obligations within the legal time limits. The law that prescribed payment deadlines for both the state and the public and the private sector is our Law on Mandatory Relations. He says what time limits should be paid. Payment is not just a problem in Croatia. Many countries meet with them, but their state administration is taking certain measures. We have been warning here for more than a year the devastating consequences of insolvency and insolvency in business transactions. But they are present not only in private but also in the state and public sectors, but they are also present in the state budget. So then I miss that second part of fiscal responsibility, and that is the responsibility for fulfilling obligations within the prescribed deadlines. And that's why it seems to me that when you analyze a few articles at speed that are sometimes contrary to the 2011 budget law, it leads me to some conclusion that this law that comes this quickly, which is going according to an emergency procedure, which is only being discussed a few hours after it's been included in the agenda, when it couldn't be sufficiently evaluated, is actually just a cover for a bad 2011 budget that, with revenues and expenditures, has resulted in a deficit of around 15 billion kuna. It would be normal for these fiscal rules to be applied to that budget then to say if we already have such a deficit in 2010 that it is then reduced by 1% index points. Then it would be fiscal responsibility for the 2011 budget. This is what I'm saying to me, it's just a cover for a bad 2011 budget because these rules don't apply. And now I'd like to say a few words actually why I don't think that's really necessary. If anything is necessary, it may be necessary to intervene either in the Budget Law or in the Budget Law which is a one-year law and is bound by the obligation under the Budget Act only to the budget of the current year. So we have the Budget Law, we have the Budget Implementation Act with each budget, we have the possibility of rebalancing, we have the State Audit Office reports that show some progress in the implementation of the budget at all levels, but what is the fate of these reports is the second question. How sanctioned are those who are either unreal or non-transparent or even spending budgets. And what is said in these fiscal rules? That the total expenditure of the general budget will be reduced annually by at least 1% of the budget, expressed by the share in the estimated gross domestic product. How are you going to apply this to local budgets? What are they going to compare to? Do they have a fixed gross product for the municipality, the city, the county? There's got to be something else for them. And by definition, we say the general budget, that's all the budgets. It is evident that this law has been written in haste and that it has a lot of misunderstandings, indeterminates, and in the opposite. Article 6 where it is said that the budgetary user of the state budget in the event of a commitment with a maturity above the level provided for in the state budget will. One is maturity, the other is height. So, you can exceed the amount planned in the state budget, but you can also have the maturity I say should be within the deadlines prescribed by the Mandatory Relations Act. Then, Article 7 states that the leader is responsible, so he will make this statement. Who are all these leaders? In one case, it's when you translate it, it should be the head of finance because it's going to give a statement to the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, that's what it says here. And then they're going to give, it's going to be the same statement or it's going to be their special statement going to the ministry. So it's said that the contents of the statement will be checked, and I think we should check the truth. Which means content, content as prescribed. And now look, here's my colleague Linic speaking, the 2011 State Budget Implementation Act. It states in Article 6 that if the budget is found to be incorrectly used during the course of the budget, the beneficiary will be reduced by funds not intended to be used, or the payment of funds will be suspended on the items from which these funds have been accidentally spent. The same is said in Article 8 and then Article 8(2) says what will be done if new commitments are made during the year for the general budget or economic developments change. Then it's said to be doing budget rebalancing. Well, that's what the Budget Law says. In particular, Article 7 of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2011 where it is said that practically anything other than the financing account can be redistributed, so the Government can redistribute it. And then we have this high budget supply that we're not talking about. We do not speak of it in Article 11. The law on the implementation of the budget neither in the Fiscal Responsibility Act, and the practice has shown that there is a lot of funding from this item, both indiscriminately and unintendedly. If by definition there is a budget stock, the planned funds for what is being under way or at the time when the budget was planned or when it was going into budget rebalancing could not have been predicted, and let's look at what we have there. From the material costs of units of local self-government to the financing of religious communities, and I don't know what it all is, almost the same items we have planned at individual positions of the budget itself. So a lot of things are unclear, a lot of things should be done and it would be good if we were to go with such a law that it should be quality, that maybe the needs of change and the Law itself on Budgets should be introduced into it and the provisions on payment and sanctions if payment deadlines are exceeded, because the Law on Mandatory Relations does not regulate it, and that does not regulate the Penal Code. So if we had more time to discuss this, we would probably come to the conclusion that some things should be regulated both in the Penal Code and in the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63698	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague colleague, Vesna Buterin, came forward for discussion. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63699	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The need for fiscal consolidation is one of the key measures of the Economic Recovery Programme, and effective budgetary management is one of the preconditions for the consolidation of public finances. This law applies to all budgetary and non-financial users, as well as to the heads of units of local and regional self-government and to the heads of budgetary and extra-financial users of local units, and to the efficient spending and management of budgetary money. Legislative provisions provide that the total expenditure of the general budget, namely the central budget and budgets of local units and the financial plans of extra budget users, are to be reduced annually by at least 1 percentage point in the estimated gross domestic product. This reduction would be carried out until the primary and fiscal balance is zero or positive. The fiscal rules under which the Government will implement its fiscal policy are also laid down, with the aim of reducing the deficit to enable consumption to be fully financed from revenue, and would be charged solely because of the settlement of commitments or for development. It is particularly important that a declaration of fiscal responsibility is introduced by ministers, mayors, mayors and commissioners annually, confirming that they have provided legal, purposeful and meaningful use of funds in their work and that the financial management and control systems are effective and effective. This institute will certainly prevent the manipulation of individual leaders when it comes to strictly dedicated budgetary resources. For example, in Rijeka, therefore, contrary to the legal provisions spent the last few years of 148.5 million kuna. I would like to stress that this is not only about non-compliance with the Law on the Communist Economy but also about the budgetary resources being used against the Law on Monumental Rent, the Law on concessions, but also about the unintended spending of money on sold dwellings on which there is a household law, which should be used exclusively for the purpose of providing socially vulnerable persons. And for the absurd to be greater, the Mayor of Rijeka himself has publicly admitted that he knowingly spent that money unintendedly, and that he would do so in the future. Therefore, this legislative proposal will no longer allow such self-will as prescribed in Article 11, in which in my opinion there is room for further completion in paragraph 3. The proposed provisions also define rules to strengthen fiscal responsibility and propose to reduce the financial plan for the next year if it creates commitments above the national budget. In addition, the system of supervision and control over the use of the budget money itself is stronger. During the implementation of the State budget, the Ministry of Finance may carry out financial control of the legal and dedicated spending of budget money by the budgetary user of the state budget, as well as by end-users. This introduces previous financial controls, which is an absolute novelty, but also a very good news in the current financial control system, which so far was primarily based on ex post controls, which, in fact, have no preventive effect but consists of a clear finding of the situation. Therefore, this Law lays down rules restricting state consumption, strengthening responsibility for the legal, purpose and purpose use of budgetary resources, and strengthening the system of control and supervision in order to ensure fiscal accountability. The aim is to ensure and maintain fiscal responsibility, transparency, and medium- and long-term sustainability of public finances, and to manage budget money more responsibly and efficiently, and therefore to support the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63700	Thank you very much, colleague. A colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh, applied for the debate next. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would start with my colleague Zlatko Koračević talking to the government with very chosen words when he told them that this was actually a hypocritical marketing trick. That's a very nice thing to say. I would even say that they were starved by the perus, and that they deserved much worse treatment, that this is one of the laws that shows the absolute highest level of insolence of the government since HDZ has been leading since 2004. I'll tell you why. You say the law is actually passed because of the financial indiscipline of local self-government. Oh, come on! First vote. And where were you when Ivan Shuker left me 14 million kunas of loss? Where were you then? How many total budgets are all units of local and regional self-government. Whether the system of units of local and regional self-government has accidentally created a budget deficit of two billion euros per year for two years in a row. We went on an incantation because the mayor of Rijeka was freaking out or because we had a budget that initially promises 15 billion kunas in next year. And who are you guys really messing with? Today you passed a law that the government defined by emergency procedure yesterday. We're discussing 20 hollandezes. One of the most important questions in this country that should answer the challenge of a huge budget deficit and great indifference we are discussing at 19 hours and 10 minutes in the evening 20 Dutches of which, if all were to be summed up and taken away, I don't know if we can say that we have two experts who can testify about this in such a way as to break up and break up this law that you have brought to us. And you're doing it at the end of your term. Oh, come on! You would commit to a government that comes next year to do what you wrote for the next three years. And what did you gentlemen from the government do for seven years? The seven budgets you've budgeted have been broken down that you didn't even take a breath on those papers you brought us here by calling them state budgets. And now you have the shame and shame of a government that comes not to an empty cage, not to an empty dig, but to a broken dig to tell it that it must not be left or right or millimeter, because ministers must give a mandate at their disposal, and the heads of state must write you statements. You will decide their fate by the competent ministry, and you will reduce the budget for the following year as opposed to their non-discipline. And I'm asking you who's to blame for shaking every local budget in the country this year because you wrote them last month at the 11th month to plan for economic growth 0.5%. You're actually the ones who gave them the instructions that made them unreal budgets. What do we do with that? Will you give the government and the Ministry of Finance resignations because you've been misleading the entire public when the whole state, the entire professional public said don't do that, we're going down, we're going 2 percent down. You were saying we're not going one and a half in the front. So what do we do now? Who is to blame for fiscal irresponsibility at the level of local self-government? Where did that courage come from? Where is this insolence to come to the end of the mandate with a story to come into force and will be applied from the moment the 2012 budget begins. Whomever you tie your hands to and with what right. That kind of insolence hasn't been seen in this House for seven years. Instead of coming here with the idea of reducing the deficit, how to reduce financial indiscipline in a way that starts this hour because only tomorrow we are voting the budget that mirrored the biggest financial indiscipline. You come to us with a story about how you want to pour concrete on patients before the doctor comes next year to try something. That's really more than hypocritical what my colleague Koračević would say. Unbelievable. Seven and a half hours in the evening, you want us to stand behind it because you're afraid of public reactions. So what will people say in the cities from which we come? So who put them in that position that they're either crazy or smart because they don't know how they're gonna patch up the local budget, because you promised them hills and valleys, because you rebalanced how many transfers to local self-government. After all, because you have used millions and millions of public money through FIMI media to various circuses and your needs. Well, all these millions would be enough to patch up everything except Zagreb. Zagreb is a special story, and that's where I agree. But where were you two years ago when we talked about it? Why doesn't he care about the tail then? So did we not bring about amendments and additions to the Budget Law to end financial indiscipline in the very city of Zagreb. So what did we hear? What have you done in the last two years to prevent what is now happening in Zagreb? Nothing because you're in cahoots, because you're in a pact, because it suits you. That's the argument with which you actually support this proposal. Even if the HNS and HSU club were a hundred times for this bill, I wouldn't vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63702	Correction of the quote, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63703	Well, here's the esteemed vice president, I hope the colleague really incorrectly stated that the new government that will then be formed tomorrow in Istria, is coming to dig, because you know who's coming to dig and doing digging. It's usually what they do, living things but with instinct, not reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63704	Here's a colleague to explain to his colleagues what it's like to dig. The Cuckoos know these Turopolys, too. And the last... Like he said, colleague Arsen Bauk. [[You don't understand.]] Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is a pretty good bill of law, i.e. it would be a pretty good bill of law if this was the first reading, because in that case we would even have faith in some good intentions for fiscal responsibility, which has recently been at least declared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this composition. But this is not a bill proposal, this is a bill of urgency that we received today, the committees discussed it this afternoon, the Parliament is discussing it in the night programme, and of course it's very clear and it doesn't need to be complicated at all, this is one marketing bill. Now that FIMA media is not doing marketing for the government and state institutions, they're getting a little kick in the marketing bill, and it seems to me that since Mr. Macek is no longer working on the PR, he's also got some kicks, so this is one of the worse offices of this government in terms of legal proposals. This may have been a good declaration, because most of them, if not all of the provisions of this law, will remain at the declarative level, only because, because this bad law is going to be amended very quickly, if not abolished, and I believe that it will be amended in such a fast time that none of the items of this law can remain anything more than a declaration. But what exactly is going on? Therefore, Article 11(1) is prescribed that in cases where the Head of Budgetary and Extra-Procedural User of the State Budget is established in breach of the provisions of this Act, he will place a mandate for the exercise of his duties at the disposal of the President, that is, the Prime Minister, the body appointed by him, etc. How will this work in practice? First of all, the reason behind this law is said to introduce political responsibility. That's good. So far, there has really been no political responsibility, we have seen this on several examples of ministers, current ministers of the Croatian government, but here in Article 11, there is one item that may even be amended, and this is what it says if the Head of Budgetary User is a minister who has received more than 7 seats in his election unit, the prime minister will not replace him. If the minister is in an election unit from which less than 7 mandates come, then he may be replaced. If he was close to his former prime minister, he could be shut down. That's how it should be written in this law, because that's what we've had a chance to look at for the past few years, no matter what kind of offense or at least non-compliance with the legal provisions. What is particularly interesting is the question of local budgets. So first, as far as the state budget is concerned, the State Budget Act on the implementation of the state budget that we will receive tomorrow, which is unnecessary when we have this law almost, so we will allow the Government to redistribute some items so that those leaders of the budget are already appalled by the error because these mistakes are corrected before they are found to be wrong, and if this does not happen then the Council can change the budget in some kind of procedure, because the government that comes from the parliamentary majority can always change the budget, and the leaders of local self-government may first not have to have a majority in the council, and then the council can deliberately adopt a budget which these will not be able to implement, then either will deliberately be, or it will be, that some items are simply unsustainable, and then will also provoke the referendum in a way that this provision will provoke a referendum. And then the question, because it's unclear what provisions will apply, will have to be 51% exit in order for the mayor to be replaced or not. ... This one from Rijeka will not be replaced for the next 40 years, you don't have to worry about it at all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At least how much, that's what I'm willing to bet on. Since we are not longer or complicated because the situation is very clear, we are making this law so that the ruling has something to say next year about that they have done something, this law will be of no use to you, there will be no great harm, and therefore another marketing move, and I don't think that these marketing moves in the people are going through any more. They were alive and seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63706	Thank you very much. Here's what we've exhausted all the requests for discussion and I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this law and on others when conditions are met. And the living were up to 10 tomorrow, voting at 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-22-0.u63707	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Fiscal Responsibility. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 659. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 41 against. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. - Report on the course of the negotiations process of the Republic of Croatia-European Union during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Spain to the Council of the European Union (time from 1 January to 30 June 2010) The Government of the Republic of Croatia and Head of the State delegation for negotiations in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union submitted this report on the basis of a statement by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on joint action in the EU membership negotiations process. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Andrej Plenkovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
