ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50233	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the government. The SDP club therefore submitted an interpretation of violence among young people because we believe it is a subject which is worth discussing at the plenary session. We held several thematic sessions in the home committee where we discussed the issue of violence among young people with experts. We also discussed the sanctions that young people should bear when it comes to criminal acts. However, after these thematic sessions, since nothing was launched or moved in a positive direction, we also decided on a request for a plenary session. The real cause for this debate is actually some young people who have been killed in the streets of our country for the last year and a half or two years just because they were in the wrong place at the wrong time and because they were in front of young people who apparently brought some wrong values from their family. I'll just remember a part of those young people here. Luka Marinac was killed in 2007, Franjo Despic was killed in 2008, Davor Sabljić was stabbed with a knife in 2008, Luka Ritz died of the 2008 beating, Filip Šilipetar was stabbed with a knife in 2008, Nika Dekovic was killed in 2008, Josip Klasnic died of the 2008 beating, Vitomir Jovičić-Simke was thrown into the river and died. Marin Opačak was beaten in 2009 and ended up in a coma, Boris Cizmeshia suffered severe injuries in 2009. Igor Mijic was stabbed in 2009, Aleksandar Abramov was killed in 2009. This is just, therefore, one part of the young people who have died in the last two or three years. I think it's quite enough that I've read only one name here to talk about this subject and all together raise our voice against violence among young people, but also to see what we can do here in this highest legislative House together with the executive authorities to protect all those, all those future children who can become victims of violence like this. The murderers and attackers of all these young people I read here were actually young people aged 15 to 25. And that's what we have to worry about, and that's actually a growing reduction in the age limit of children who are able to commit crimes. In the first nine months of last year, there were even 109 perpetrators who were less than 14 years old. Our age limit for children who are able to pull on someone with a knife or beating them to death is actually getting smaller and smaller. The total number of perpetrators under the age of 14 is e.g. In 2008, it was a record. We had 101 perpetrators, unlike for example. Since 2007, when we had 39 perpetrators, in 2006, we had only 13 perpetrators. So in just two years, we've had a rise in such children from 13 to 181 perpetrators, which definitely must be one red light that has to call for an alarm. Similarly, it should be said that a significant increase in the number of children who have either committed suicide or who have tried suicide also shows certain negative trends among young people or who are better told about the problems some young people have. And the question is whether we as a society know how to answer these problems and whether we know how to help them properly. The fundamental problem in fighting violence among young people is, in fact, a very early identification of risky children, or risky families. So that's one of the key things where we have system failures. We haven't built mechanisms in a system that will recognize very early risk families, and therefore children who can become these thugs and murderers tomorrow. That's why it's really important to work on that part. At our session last time, there was a lot of talk about how responsible the family is. Surely, the family is the most responsible, and children in the family can bring in whatever is good in rearing, but they can bring in what is bad. The question is, what to do with those families who raise children in this way to make those at 14, 15 become children who are capable of killing. So these children were not born as murderers, so these children were created by such development in their own family. My question now is what to do with such families, we can fold our shoulders in society and say it's the family we won't touch the family, the family has to worry about raising their child. However, I do not think that this is so, I think that as a society we bear, we have great responsibility for these families and we are obliged to intervene in these families in order to help them in a different way to raise children, or rather to help those children in that moment to somehow have a different way of education and a different approach to certain values than they have in their own family. If we have a family, parents who don't come to school for months, don't ask about their children, don't ask if they attend regular classes, whether they come to school, whether they're doing their duties neatly, if we have parents who abuse their children, if we have parents who neglect their children and thus don't build up their feelings of empathy, which is actually the main reason why they can beat someone to death at a certain age, then it seems to me that we as a society should intervene and take that family into what's called psycho social treatment and work equally with parents and with such a child. Unfortunately, the system schedules because, for example, we do not have any protocol that will guide all those who work with children in certain situations. Many experts warn that it may be necessary to write very clear instructions, some day as I saw from one newspaper, people in the health care system suggested and wrote a brief protocol when doctors should report suspicion of a child being abused. It is not on anyone, therefore, that they are neither kindergartens nor schools, nor health care systems to prove whether or not the child has been abused or neglected, it is only for them to identify the problem and to report the problem to those who are in charge of dealing with the problem further. So a very clear one protocol could help. Tets in kindergarten that work with children and where it is actually very important to get right away, it is the earliest stage when it can be recognized that the child has problems in the family, a child who has problems in behavior. The aunts who spend every day with children for 8 or more hours, see that a child is violent, see and parents, know in what kind of family structure this child lives in, therefore, very clear instructions that would be prescribed to them would certainly help them at the time when they see some symptoms of unacceptable child behavior that they then report to the Centre for Social Care, which is actually the only address to which they should apply and who would then enter the family and see what is happening there. So they should also be in schools, and schools should have a prescribed protocol where teachers and teachers should report to the center what happens to individual students at school. Some do it, some don't do it, no uniform practice, some do it in a way that goes alone to talk to their parents. Often parents react greatly to the fact that their child is violently, aggressively, and inadequately behaves at school. One time someone said that it is much easier for parents to accept other truths about their own child, but it is most difficult for them to accept the truth that their child is violent. Therefore, both teachers and teachers are not persons who need to solve this type of problem with a child, this is what people who are educated, teachers and teachers are trained to educate and teach our children. But in any case, school is a good place to see certain disturbances in child behavior and so many schools should be where some things should be started. It's amazing that we in schools have boards with zero tolerance and then we have a situation like we saw in Bjelovar where for months, a child has been harassed in class for years and no one has informed the authorities, and no one has responded, that no one has said anything about it. You also have a case in another school, in high school, in Sisak where a boy was also abused by his peers in class, for months he warned about it, he complained, but all of them told him that it was just a little joke in the class, they didn't take him seriously, and that's what I want to warn about, so it's something that can't be tolerated, the least sign of violence should actually be responded immediately, because the sooner we react something sooner we can do, when we react too late then actually all the experts' efforts are something which is a question of how much effect and actually a lot of energy is being invested. Now, I'd like to say a little bit about welfare centres, which I actually think are the only ones in our legislative system that have the power to enter the family, to see what's going on there and with their beautiful powers that have to find certain adequate measures to protect the child. Unfortunately, in the past 7 years, the centres have not experienced any reform thanks to the restoring ministry, decentralisation has been halted until further I think it was wrong, because decentralisation of social care, social care could be brought down to local self-government units, which would mean that, in some ways, much better on a micro-level, they can define the needs of a particular community, municipality, city or county and that they can then work on programmes. There are no more policies in Europe like we have, which is that programs work in ministries, so far away from real problems. The problems go down to local community level, because only there can be a good detection, because only there can be handled well. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. The Social Care Centre with each of our amendments to the legislation gets some new powers, they're not relieved of anything, so if I calculated correctly they have about 156 or 7 different powers. So, the Centres are definitely with this number of powers, the jobs being re-tracted, overloaded, it didn't seem like much to be dissipated one part of the job so they could focus more on family issues. Some of the research that has been done has shown that employees in welfare centres have only five minutes per user. If you have family problems, then when you have a family where parents don’t care for a child, where they possibly abuse him, in which family dynamics are violated, as experts in which you have a very unquality family to work with seriously. If you have five minutes for them, then the question is how much you can help them and how effectively you can work with them. Therefore, it seems to me that there is a big problem and that there should be work here, but unfortunately, a resolute ministry covering the social care system for 7 years does not show any willingness to help the social care system and to do anything to make the system more efficient, so that it protects both children and parents better. It's the same way to say that to me, for example. in Croatia we abolished all children's psychiatric departments. We only have one psychiatric hospital that's the one in Kukuljevic, the children are waiting for treatment for up to six months. When a child in need of help waits for more than six months to reach a child’s psychiatrist, the question is, in fact, whether we helped him or not. If we are not prepared to help him in a much shorter time, then the question is, in six months, what is happening to that child and whether that child needs help or not anymore. Then we have some other facilities where children are staying with adults, which is completely inadequate access to children. It is equally necessary to say that I am sorry that the HDZ government has stopped at the opening of children's polyclinics. The only one opened in the city of Zagreb. Within just a few months there were waiting lists, because the whole of Croatia is gravitating towards the only such institution, whose multidisciplinary team won the world award last year for the best multidisciplinary team, which I think shows we actually have good experts. But we have very little of these experts. There are very few in such multidisciplinary teams that can work with children. Therefore, it is the same thing that we have to work on and try to open some more polyclinics at least in the eastern part of Croatia and down somewhere in Dalmatia to cover Croatia and make people who are mental health professionals more accessible to children. I've been warning for years that we don't have enough mental health experts. Unfortunately, there are some mental health experts at the Employment Service. So who at the moment is at the institution of 82 graduate psychologists, 23 psychology professors, 59 graduate social workers, 24 school educators and 11 teachers with behavioral disorders. Unfortunately, these people are at the Employment Office and we have entire areas of Croatia that are uncovered by mental health experts. That's how you're gonna do it, for example. in Vukovar-Srijem County, find only one mental health expert, so in one county that has been exposed to work, which is still traumatising not only since the war but also from the growing misery and indifference and apathy in which people have set themselves on fire because they simply don't see any light for tomorrow. Therefore, this is also something that the state must take care of and see how it will motivate these people sitting at the Employment Office in Zagreb to find a job in some other environments where we need them. If the Constitution states that our children are something that the state cares about, if all of us here swear to children, then it must be of social and state interest to help these children, and that means that we need to see how to redistribute these people who are currently sitting as unemployed so that they can apply their knowledge to which they have been trained and help the children who need it in Croatia. It should also be said that we have in the health care system slightly less than 30 psychologists, clinical psychologists, which is definitely not enough. So that's one small number because it's '96. years of decision made to get out of the hospital, i.e. from the so-called The blue books are removed by clinical psychologists. So there's about 30 of them left. Definitely too few to work with children, definitely too few people. Unfortunately, there was a ban on employment both in the health care system and in the social care system. So now we're in a situation where we can't even hire a certain number of people. It should be said that we all actually get in touch or the public gets on their feet when someone really gets hurt, when we have extreme cases that someone's been beaten to death. At that point, we have a situation where everyone kind of gets up on their feet, but then so does everyone look to the judiciary. I'd say it's wrong, and then it's too late. So, when a child commits a crime, it's really late, because it should be prevented, it should do everything to keep it from happening, because one of the lives of the one who was beaten up was destroyed, but this other life of a minor who will end up in a juvie or juvenile prison, and from there certainly doesn't get much better, you can just get out even worse. Therefore, what would be important is the impact and more work on prevention. What the HDZ government has done in this budget, I will only remind myself that the funds have been significantly downloaded on preventive programmes. Unfortunately, the 2010 State budget saved quite a bit in three ministries. So in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Health and Social Care, and the family total reduced about 11 million kunas for preventive programmes related to children and young people. The largest reduction in funds has just been recorded by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, where around 27 million kunas have been taken down for children and young people. It was downloaded on the items prevention of school violence, sports programs during the holidays, encouraging extracurricular activities of children in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools. The Ministry of Health and Social Care has been downloaded on programmes related to children and young people and behavioral disorders. So these are indicators that actually argue that we're not aware of the problem we have and that prevention is what's most important to us. So, prevention, involving children in activities, so I say hiring children at leisure so that they don't actually learn the rules of the game on the street but somewhere else, which can work positively on their development. This shows that the government of the Republic of Croatia is not aware of the problem and is actually ignoring the problem. Unfortunately, the zero-tolerance boards on school-by-school violence will not solve the problem, and this has already been shown because just under these plates many children have been killed and at this point, while we are talking to a certain part of the children suffers violence precisely under that zero tolerance password for violence. And finally, I would like to say that in this interpretation we have proposed concrete solutions, so what we think would be important at this point, so I will say very briefly that the SDP club proposes to introduce a single preventive programme in schools. At this point in some schools, preventive programmes are being worked, not in some, but I think it would be important to introduce a unique preventive programme so that it is known that this programme is working equally on Korčula, Zagreb, Babina Greda and in any other environment in Croatia. Therefore, it should definitely invest a lot more money in the system of education and education, primarily in preventive projects that are available through the system of education and education to children. Third, you should definitely recognize very early risk families with clear treatment after identifying these families, you should know very clearly what to do with such families and children. We propose that health counselling centres be established and that, as once upon a time it was done, they do their own systematic examinations at the age of 3 and 5. We also suggest that special programmes be designed at the level of units of local self-government for children and young people, therefore from free activities, creative leisure, choices, so local self-government units, where children live are actually the best places to create such programs. Once again, I'm going to say these units know their needs best, so they know best how to apply certain projects. Furthermore, in our opinion it is necessary to network the ministries, state institutions, NGOs and experts who have been implementing preventive programmes for years for children, I think that this is still not sufficiently networked and I will say this time that I think that the Croatian Government must start using another system of financing associations, which is a system in which one part of the associations that have been doing quality programs for years, which have good results, will be accepted as partners of the Government. So, they can no longer be associations that will go to competitions every year, depending on the good will of someone in the ministry whether they will give them money or not. Thus, such associations often do not receive money and interrupt their preventive programs and work with children. Therefore, it is our proposal that a number of organizations that have been working for years, which have good projects, have results with children to be included as government partners because the civil sector is definitely something that can help the government not only in this part but also in many others, but at this point we are dealing with children and young people. Schools should introduce health education for which we have been fighting for years and I must admit that it is completely unclear why the Ministry of Science and Education resists such an object through which children would definitely be taught positive ways of affirmation in groups and societies and would be taught that they cannot, in fact, be in charge of violent and unacceptable behavior in society rather than only by positive behaviour and knowledge. The effects of the implementation of the regulations on the prohibition of night outs and the prohibition of visits to bookies under 16 years of age should also be considered. Namely, according to the latest data from the MUP, it should be said that, in fact, as they say in the MUP, all their tolerance beyond 23 hours seems to me that it is much more somewhere in those early morning hours on the streets of Croatia found 100 percent more children in the past year than in the previous morning. And that's another reason why we need to be worried about why parents act like they let their kids out after 11:00. So, one part of the kids is out there with the consent of their parents and I don't know what to say to the number of kids who say they're out there without parents' consent and really the question of how you can be a responsible parent who sleeps peacefully at 3:00 in the morning and don't wonder why his kid isn't home but is out there somewhere. Here, these are our concrete suggestions that we should make to help parents raise their children and help children living in risky families. Once again, I would like to say, the sooner we see the problems with the child, the sooner we start working multidisciplinaryly with these children, the more likely we are to prevent that child from becoming a delinquent and street bully in some years. So prevention is what's most important but when we have families that can't do it ourselves, then we're like a society that needs help. In this second part of identifying risk families and helping families we have a problem. I know there's going to be a story now by the ministries about the great strategies we've brought in but I'm asking you gentlemen to talk in a way that we've done something but we still have a big problem so let's see how this problem is solved. If today's debate turns into a commentation with strategies, the programmes without being willing to discuss the problem of increased violence among young people, then actually this debate is losing its meaning today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50234	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First is Mrs. Zeljana Pondor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50235	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct two incorrect allegations that the distinguished representative said on behalf of the SDP club. The first is that there is no protocol on the handling of cases of violence. I'd say it certainly exists, and there are two that are closely tied to each other. These are the Protocol on the treatment of violence between young people and the Protocol on the Treatment in Family Violence, which I think since 2004 the Ministry of the Family has issued as a competent ministry. I think I even saw a blue book from a respected secretary of state so he can lend it to you. Secondly, I would say that, in the implementation of this programme, the attorney-general and even the thematic session of the committee was held by which you chaired. And secondly, the employees of the welfare center said you didn't have enough time to deal with family issues. Well, that's exactly why this government founded family centers and it's... Such centres that operate on the principle of county centers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50236	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50237	Thank you. I'm going to correct two incorrect allegations from my colleague Opacic. The first is that there is no protocol of action or that it has not been adopted. It is precisely known from kindergarten, elementary school, high school, what the protocol of conduct is when there is a risk of behaviour between children and young people. It is known exactly what professional services in schools and kindergartens, psychologists react in what way, when parents are called, when the Centre for Social Care is reported, and there is nothing special new from this interpretation and explanation of counterpart Opačić. She also said that local self-government units should provide programmes for children through different associations. So these programs exist on the ground. Local self-government units finance hundreds and thousands of different sports, social, cultural associations that work in areas of certain cities and municipalities with special attention to working with young people, from sports to various cultural events and also from firefighters where young people are involved, and you can't say that there are no such activities of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50238	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50239	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Opačić incorrectly stated that the Resort Ministry of Health and Social Care has been showing no concern for social care for the past seven years. That's absolutely incorrect. Significant efforts have also been made in the field of material infrastructure, human resources, etc. In my midst, from my county from which I come three centres of social care were made, so also in Đurđevec, Koprivnica and Križevci etc. So these protocols also exist as a colleague and colleague said, but it's also a large and painful one and should not have double criteria for a dear colleague. When we say family, when we affirm the family, when the church is manifested about moral and ethical dilemmas, then it is evident, and when you advocate legalization of light drugs, then it is progressive. So you should be there consistent, of course, with what you said prevention absolutely yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50240	And another correction, Mr. Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50241	Here's your thanks, Mr. President. I want to correct an incorrect quote where the lady says schools don't solve violence and then even says they have tiles that determine that it's a zero point of tolerance. And I haven't heard in reason that you understand and know what our schools know, what they've regained, and these are protocols. You know exactly, in the event of violence... The school exactly who does what, how it's called. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's protocols that are stalking, and if they weren't there, I don't know where we'd be. That means I'm joining this amendment to make our public realize that our schools have these protocols. And on the other hand, as far as prevention is concerned, I agree there is still more to be done, in our schools there are about a dozen and more programs that act preventively, and on the other hand education is a educational and educational institution, so the value and what is taught would be much worse. Here's what I wanted to complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50242	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. The government was manifest in connection with this impelation. Does the government's additional representative want to explain? Yeah. Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50243	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. On the occasion of Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in preventing and combating growing violence, delinquency, crime and risky behaviour among children and young people, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Social Democratic Party in the Croatian Parliament hereby report that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the restoring bodies of the state administration are aware of the fact of the existence of violent behaviour among children and young people, in accordance with their work cycle and competences, have taken a number of measures to sanction and prevent it. In prevention of violence, delinquency, crime and risky behaviour among children and young people, it is primarily important to highlight the educational role of parents, i.e. the need to prevent increasing exposure of children and young people to the many risks of inappropriate behaviours available through media and various means of electronic communication, telephone, cell phone and e-mail. In order to prevent exposure to those risks, parents have a significant and irreplaceable role and responsibility in view of the broad availability of inappropriate content and possible establishment of uncontrolled social ties through electronic media to children from their early age. With all the progress and rapid transmission of information that electronic media brings us, they are a challenge and, above all, a danger of spreading all the unwanted forms of behavior. The advantages, but also the side effects and risks of children being exposed to Internet use by the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity in May 2009, in collaboration with a daily newspaper, issued a brochure with 150 thousand copies. Developing the violent behaviour of children and young people has an unmistakable effect on the production of films and TV shows with destructive and immoral content or content that is contrary to family educational values and relations in the family or community, in terms that are also available to children. The new Law on Electronic Media, which is also in line with the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, provides for audio and audiovisual media services as a result of rapid technological progress and digitisation, which were not covered by previous regulations. In accordance with Article 26 of that Law, audiovisual or radio programmes are not allowed in any way to encourage, promote and enhance violence and crime and encourage citizens, especially children and youth to use tobacco products, alcohol or drugs. It is also not allowed to publish audiovisual or radio programs that are likely to endanger the physical, mental or moral development of minors, except at the time when the broadcasting time is ensured in which minors will not hear or see such programs. The supervision of the implementation of this law and the relevant sub-legislative acts in the jurisdiction of the Council for Electronic Media, which for 2008 and 2009 established by two infringements of the law relating to provisions relating to minors and the necessity of compliance with the law, issued a public warning to all national televisions. All measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of preventing and sanctioning violence between children and young people in 2009, according to data from the Ministry of the Interior, a drop in criminal acts with elements of violence of minors by 11% compared to 2008, as well as a decline in the number of prosecuted acts of violence against public order and peace committed by minors, impertinent behaviour and disturbance of peace by fighting, contention or shouting by 6% and misdemeaning or insulting an official by 18%. I further note that in January and February 2010, a decline in criminal offences with the elements of violence of minors was also recorded by 1.8% compared to January and February 2009. So, there's no point in having an increased number of acts of violence. However, statistics suggest that they are significantly smaller than they were last year. In particular, it should be pointed out that this fall is due to the implementation of the Youth Prevention Programme for 2009 which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of preventing and reducing violence among young people at a session held on 8 June 2009. During 2009, a series of activities programme measures were implemented, and detailed data on the implementation of the measures will be made available after the adoption of the Activity Programme Report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. following the delivery of individual reports by the State Administration, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which were required to deliver it by 28 February 2010, and will soon be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of the 2009 action programme is also planned to continue during 2010. Of the most significant measures implemented by the programme of activities in the field of legal and sublegal acts, we point out that the Law on protection against domestic violence has been adopted, the Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, the Law on Prosecution, the Code on Criminal Procedure, the Code on Criminal Recording, and, in the area of the adoption of strategic documents, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Youth Programme from 2009 to 2013 at a session held on 2 July 2009 as well as the National Strategy for the Prevention of Disruption in the Conduct of Children and Youth from 2009 to 2012 at its meeting on 3 August 2009. As regards the establishment of a risk group of young people, we point out that 17 family centres have established cooperation with community experts in the area of prevention of violence among young people, which deepened co-operation with workers of educational, social, health and judicial institutions. On the basis of these cooperations, the available data from the competent institutions, the analysis of the data collected, the holding of meetings and round tables, the family centres carried out an assessment of the situation in the community and identified the characteristics of the youth risk group in the field of their activities and carried out an assessment of the situation. As already stated, detailed implementation data and the above measures will be known for the adoption of the full report on the implementation of the programme of activities by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Significant risks in the development of child and youth violent behaviour are certainly alcohol and drug consumption, and for the purpose of preventing addiction among children and young people in the Republic of Croatia are implemented a whole series of measures in line with the National Strategy for the Prevention of Intoxication Drugs in 2006/2012. and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse from 2009 to 2012 And the adoption of the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth in the Educational System is under way, as well as children and young people outside the education system. According to data from the Ministry of the Interior relating to the criminal offence, the abuse of intoxicating drugs committed by minors is a constant proportion of 4 to 5% of these crimes in the total number of trials committed by minors while data are listed in the interpretation of research results relating to alcohol consumption and drug experimentation in high school students at a lower level of average compared to the countries of the European Union. I further point out that in 2009 the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity approved 5 million and 800,000 kn funding for 85 projects of associations aimed at preventing all types of addiction of young printers "I choose life, drugs not." In 160,000 copies containing advice for children and young people and parents and organised a round table "Prevention of Dependence of Children and Youth" on the International Day of Combating Drug Abuse. It is important to note that competent institutions take the necessary measures to implement the rules governing the ban on the sale of alcohol to minors as well as tobacco products, i.e. the Law on Trade, the Law on Food Activity and the laws on the use of tobacco products, and the State Inspectorate carried out 40000 controls in 2007. In 2008, 41900 controls, 42795 controls. With regard to going to bookshops under 18 years of age, the Gambling Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2010, prohibits the receiving of betting payments from persons under 18 years of age, and ads and advertisements related to gambling must not be published in radio and television shows for children and youth, nor in printed material intended for children and young people. In accordance with the said law, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior carried out 174 controls at bookshops and automatic clubs in 2009, and it is apparent that the competent authorities are making the necessary actions to implement that law. As I have already mentioned, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Strategy for Prevention of Disabilities in the Conduct of Children and Youth from 2009 to 2012 for the purpose of strategic action in the field of prevention and behavioural disorders of children and young people. The national strategy also includes measures aimed at curbing and preventing juvenile crime and delinquency as well as measures aimed at identifying methodologies and procedures for early identification of risk families and children. For the purpose of sanctioning violence between children and young, it is necessary to reduce the length of length of court proceedings against minors as well as to wait for diagnostic treatment and home treatment in children and youth homes. Data from the County Court in Zagreb and the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb indicate the inaccuracy of the alleged, in 70% of cases of court proceedings against minors for more than 6 months, the average length of court proceedings at the County Court in Zagreb is longer than 6 months in 13.98% of cases, and the Municipal Court in 25.17% of cases. The length of waiting for diagnostic treatment and home treatment in children and youth homes will also be shortened by reforming the social care system as well as by redistributing 11 homes for raising children and young people. With the establishment of the Ombudsman's Office for Children as well as the regional offices of Split, Osijek and Rijeka, during 2007 the Republic of Croatia built a system that enabled an increased number of reports of violence in educational constitutions in 2008, also sensitization of the general public on the incidence of violence among children and young people, in line with the programme of activities affected an increased number of reports of violence to educational and educational institutions, the Children's Office and the information on increasing the application of the Advocate's Office for Children in 2008 compared to 2007 by 67% does not indicate the rise of violence in educational and educational institutions. The number of professional associates in primary and secondary schools is steadily increasing and is in the school year 2009/2010. total employment of 4000 and 5 professional associates in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, not including nurses in kindergartens. Of these professional associates in primary schools, 338 psychologists were employed, i.e. on the basis of 270 hours of work, not 226 as stated in the interpretation, while 155 psychologists were employed in secondary schools, not including dormitories and not 125 as stated in the interpretation. It is also important to stress that data from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport and from the Croatian Employment Service point out that the unequal distribution of registered unemployed persons who, in accordance with teaching standards, can be professional school associates, which makes it difficult and sometimes prevents the employment of professional associates in individual schools. Comparing the state budget for 2009 and 2010 there is a growth in planned overall funds aimed at children and young people at the positions of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity by 5.18% and the Ministry of Health and Social Care by 2.7%, which are partly re-scheduled but aimed at children and young people. On the other hand, in the positions of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, there was no reduction of funds by 27 million kuna, but by 24 million and 700 thousand. It is evident from the above data that in the case of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and the Ministry of Health and Social Care, there has been no significant reduction in funds targeted at children and young people, but rather their re-use. With regard to the ineffectiveness of the Protocol on the treatment of violence between children and young people, data from the Ministry of the Interior indicate that 3 thousand 256 acts were recorded in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 in accordance with the protocol, and that the protocol was continuously implemented and the competent authorities were coordinated in its application and monitoring. The draft guidelines for planning implementation and evaluation of prevention programmes for child protection against child abuse and neglect are presented in the occasion of the completion of the national campaign against the physical punishment of children in the Republic of Croatia, and in the course of the completion of the final text and the press guidelines for prevention intervention programmes as a draft of standards for those programmes. In order to implement preventive programmes, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has presented an electronic record of school prevention programmes organised a professional set of examinations of school prevention programmes and was financed and distributed a manual of school programmes to prevent addiction. Unauthorized nightouts of young people are also one of the risks of developing the violent behaviour of young people, and at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity a working group is established to collect data from competent authorities applying family law, courts, centres for social care, professional and scientific institutions, and, where appropriate, other interested persons and institutions on the practice of applying the Family Law so far, including Article 95 relating to the night outings of young people. On the basis of the results of the research and analysis of the applicable legislative regulations governing family and legal protection, as well as previous case-laws, recommendations will be proposed to remove possible ambiguities and doubts in the application of the Family Law, i.e. further improving individual legal solutions. It is important to point out that the implementation of the Internal Affairs Ministry's activity programme in 2009 has doubled the number of actions in accordance with Article 95. In 2009, the total number of minors found in the unauthorized night out was 2 thousand 564, while in 2008, it was a thousand 200. Of these 2 thousand 564 actions in 2009, a thousand 123 minors were on an unauthorized night out with permission from their parents. The search for that information by the competent ministries held a series of meetings for the purpose of amending Article 95 of the Law, as well as the introduction of sanctions for parents in broken legislation. Furthermore, an increased emphasis will be placed on a positive approach in order to get parents help in education, not exclusively sanctions. To that end, the work of family centres operating in 17 counties will be intensified. Some family centres from which we can especially single out the Krapina-Zagorska County Family Centre have so far shown excellent results and according to the Ministry of Interior in their field are the best response parents have to cooperate in finding children on an unauthorized night out. In connection with the monitoring and improvement of the work of the Body of Criminal Procedures at the Ministry of Justice, it began in November 2009 with the work of the Committee for the Monitoring and Promotion of the work of the body of the criminal proceedings of the enforcement of juvenile sanctions. And as we have already mentioned, the law on the enforcement of juvenile sanctions has been passed. It is important to note that in order to prevent criminality and the risky behaviour of children and young people, it is necessary to provide programmes, free-time organisations of children and young people, and in particular to point out that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity is co-financed annually by 30 youth clubs, 4 regional info centres for young people who conduct civil society organisations, and in areas of special state care and smaller rural areas are implemented by the project "Autobus – amazing Forest" in collaboration with family centres and countys. In line with all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to reject the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prevent and combat the growing violence of delinquency, crime and risky behaviour between children and young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50244	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50245	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, at the beginning of your presentation, you said, quote: "Electronic media, the Internet, cyber world, movies with destructive and immoral content affect the development of violent behavior." I could even agree with you in part, but the part that I would correct is this: a much more dangerous world than cyber world, than the Internet world is our everyday world, our real world. Here are key problems, key issues, key causes and key answers. For example. when today in a country where we have 318 thousand unemployed such a father or such a mother comes home with a work book in her pocket, it is in such families that the atmosphere of anxiety, the atmosphere of fear is created. When that parent doesn't know what he's gonna put on his kid's breakfast table tomorrow, lunch or dinner, when he doesn't know how to send him to school. It is precisely factors that favor the creation of risky families and then, of course, the development of violent behavior among young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50246	On behalf of the promoter, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50247	Mr. President, I heard from you after the minister of the family came forward. In fact, when I heard all this, there was only one question I had to ask you right now. Do you really believe everything you just said here? That it's something that helps solve the problem that we're talking about today? And did you, Mr. Minister, ever in your life talk to a parent who lost a child like this and ever talk to a victim of violence? Because it seems to me that you've spoken to these people or those children so that you wouldn't agree here to read something that the ministry officials wrote to you, but here as a minister would really talk about the real problem. We have a problem with two pictures again. One is how the SDP sees it, and we see the problem among young people, we see the problem of violence among young people, and you don't see it. We see it and it is a really big problem when a minister who at the moment covers only one of the resistors who should help suppress violence amongst young people speaks in this way, which is reading dry facts, strategies, programs, and you haven't said a word about the real problem, and that is violence among the young for which we haven't found a good mechanism yet. Those who talk about it here that there are protocols that know what to do from kindergartens, schools, then I am now asking you as competent ministers to conduct investigations and to establish sanctions for all those who have not acted on protocols. And they didn't act on people at the Sisak craft school where the child had been complaining about violence for months until it came to the paper. So are you going to sanction people who didn't do that job at a white school, protect their children? Are you going to sanction people who haven't done the protocol and the law, if you claim that's the case? I ask you again, we have a problem again, so people don't stick to what you wrote. I claim there are no clear protocols, you claim there are. If there are, then I'm looking for sanctions for those who haven't done so. Because here we are interested in protecting children, not protecting officials and employees who are not doing their job. So if what you're saying is true, then I'm asking sanctions for those who haven't done their job legally and who haven't protected the children.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50248	Thank you. I must say that everyone should remain within the right to say what they think and as no one has given instructions to the SDP club which they will write in the interpretation should not also suggest what answers should be. Everyone has the right to speak their mind, so let's stick to it. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting the inaccuracy of a colleague who insists they have a sense of revealing all this evil about violence, and this government has nothing. It's completely incorrect! This government gave you a nice report that says everything she's done, and you're finding it based on the wrong data. The example of your false record is that there has been an increase in abuse and violence by 67%, which you simply pulled out and presented. What you can present to statistics in all possible ways, but it's obvious that this government has sensitized the public, that this government has allowed the creation of the Attorney General's Office for Children. On the other hand, she has written to you what she has done and from the approval of the means to implement the action plan, from establishing the methodology and procedures for early identification of risk families or children, according to the measures of the national strategy. From the organization, about the free time of the children. You don't listen because you don't care, but you're very interested when you can say in one word that this government doesn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50250	Thank you. Correction, Madam Representative Zeljana Pondor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50251	Thank you. I'll correct two incorrect allegations. Says Mrs. MP: "You don't see the problem, HDZ and SDP have different views on the problem." So here I am, following the Minister's presentation, I have seen at least 17 corrections that I could say even in my individual debate. So, 17 corrections of the quote from your interpretation of concrete facts, figures, percentages, etc., from the competent state services. Maybe you're saying they're lying. I wouldn't agree with you. Second correction, you say reading the dry facts of protocol and law. Well, for God's sake, that's the basis for action. Are you looking for anarchy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50252	Correction of Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50253	I want to correct the incorrect assumption that a colleague of the council said the minister said he didn't see the problem, actually the minister didn't say he didn't see the problem. It is precisely because there are problems that the Government has been systematically dealing with this problem for years in all councils, and the fact is that it was in this particular argument that 8% of the criminal offences recorded in 2008 and, on the basis of this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a programme of activities at its session on 8 June, etc. It is also just the opening of the Advocate General's Office for Child Protection against Violence in Educational Institutions, where it says that a number of individual applications were due to the state building a system, which was established by the Advocate's Office, and thus sensitizing the public so that people who feel problems and endangerment would report themselves. Therefore, you are not correct...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50254	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Davor Huška here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50255	Thank you. Mr. President, it looks like we're all correcting the same allegations of colleagues, Opacic, but I'll repeat. This government doesn't see, this minister doesn't see, so I want to say that exactly what this government sees, what this Ministry sees is a problem that's on the ground, it doesn't come out with dry figures and statistics as you say, but with a whole series of laws, strategies, programs that were adopted during the term of the past and this present. Little should be back in history then, so remember the government run by the SDP, whether the government saw and looked at problems, whether it passed laws and programmes, as far as I remember there were no such activities, and therefore it is clear which government sees, which sees problems, solves them and which government had no hearing about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50256	Thank you. Correction of Madam Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50257	Thank you very much. Mr. President, here's a colleague of the council says the minister is reading dry reports. My colleagues, Opačić, these are no dry reports, but exactly the opposite of the arguments made by Mr. Minister which clearly speak the exact opposite of what you point out in the government's interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50258	Thank you. Minister Tomislav Ivić called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Parliament MPs, I have not read the dry report but read all of those activities, and when it comes to the legislative normative activity of the Government as well as all the other activities that this government has undertaken in order to identify this problem of violence among young people and to effectively act on its resolution. We are not reducing this problem, however, to everything I have read I have just indicated that this government is paying attention to this problem and that we are aware of the problems, but unlike you, we are neither trying to increase it nor try to reduce it, but we are taking real care of it and taking whatever is possible to bring this problem down to the lowest possible extent. Statistical data, you will, of course, say that it is pure statistics best to deny everything that you've talked about in the interpretation and the other data that I've presented has just been in that sense to disprove the allegations from the imprecise that are incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50260	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mrs Neda Klaric answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50261	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, Secretary of State. So here's the government and the state administration's resolute bodies are just aware of the facts of the existence of violent behavior between children and young people. They are also aware of increasingly difficult occurrences, so according to their responsibilities she has taken and taken as we have already heard a series of measures with the purpose of preventing and sanctioning violent behaviour. She is also aware of the weights and consequences for children who are used by violence, as well as children who suffer violence. Prolonged and serious abuse leaves long-term adverse consequences and clues, so it is necessary to specify, as well as to get to know the Croatian public what has been done, we have already heard largely from Minister Ivic, by the government, what he intends to implement on prevention programmes as well as those representing intervention measures in order to make both of them more effective. Thanks to the implementation of a series of measures in the Youth Prevention Programme for 2009 and the adopted rules on strategic documents, we also heard that for the entire 11% of recorded crimes were less committed by minors compared to 2008. Overall, in primary and secondary schools in 2009 there were 4,74% fewer cases of violence than in previous 2008. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity directs significant resources for the Association's projects in preventing all kinds of addiction, and we are all very well aware of the facts that represent civil society associations. So this ministry has, through 17 family countries, printed a number of professional, educational materials, organized a number of activities for drug abuse. Family centres have established cooperation with experts in the field of prevention of violence among young people, so cooperation is united with workers of educational, social, health and judicial institutions and has become both continuous and much deeper. They also assessed the situation in the community and identified the characteristics of the youth risk group in their field of action. The training of staff experts in children and youth homes, children's homes, welfare centres, courts, family centres and police stations is ongoing. In institutions for children and youth, treatments are conducted to control anger and adopt the skills of non-violent conflict resolution. One of the priorities of the Ministry of Health and Social Care is the creation of a mandatory education programme for staff in the social care system, so the opposite of what we heard. The establishment of life-long education and the formation of professional chambers have also been trained by experts in the implementation of supervisory work, the reasons lie in the fact that experts in social care warn of increasingly complex forms of behavioral disorders, relapse, addiction problems, the occurrence of multiple disturbances in children and young people, violent behaviour, uncontrolled social ties through electronic media such as the Internet and mobile phone. Also through the programme activities of family centres, it is aimed at improving parental skills and competences, working on support for parents, implementing programmes aimed at preventing peer-in-command and preventing addiction in children and young people. During the preparatory procedure for minor perpetrators, lawyers often commit themselves to the condition of a specific obligation to participate in individual or joint work in a Youth Advisory Centre, which is carried out under the social care centre in family centres. In addition to primary, secondary prevention is also important in order to avoid relapses. It is also very important to say that the development of the social care system is under way and, among other things, social care centres are changing the way services are provided through the concept, the office all in one place, through the focus of achieving results and user adaptation, especially to children, families and young people. The length of waiting we have also heard, on diagnostic processing and home accommodation, is a priority for the government in conducting deinstitutionalisation, so diagnostic processing will also be carried out at social care centres and those who have set up teams for the protection and treatment of children and youth with behavioral disorders. The establishment of the Ombudsman’s Office for Children and District Offices during 2007 influenced the increase in the number of applications in 2008 because the general public became more sensitive to the emergence of violence among children and young people, which is one of the measures of the activity programme. With regard to professional workers in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools in the school year 2009-2010, there is a visible increase in the number of employees such as psychologists, educators, defectologists, librarians. If the 2008 and 2009 budget is compared for activities aimed at children and young people and the payment of children's allowances at the positions of the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity, larger funds in this case have been allocated. In 2010, it totals the orientations for a billion 816 million and 425 thousand kuna. In the field of special state care, various activities are carried out for the availability of cultural, educational, sports and other creative content to children and young people. Furthermore, social care systems provide means to implement preventive programmes for children with behavioural disorders, and they are higher this year by 2.7% compared to the previous year. Furthermore, we also heard the whole range of laws such as the Law on the Protection of Family Violence, the Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Code on Criminal Recording. The Penal Code is also in the works, as is the analysis of the effects of the Family Law. In September of last year, the justice ministry formed an expert task force working on amendments and additions to the Law on Youth Courts, consisting of professors, judges for youth, state lawyers, representatives of the justice departments, home affairs, health and social care, families, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, welfare centres and the Office of Advocates for Children. In 2004, a Protocol on the treatment of violence between children and young people was adopted, and the competent authorities are monitoring its implementation. The Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Agency for Education and Education, delivered to all primary schools, secondary schools and dormitories, electronic records of school prevention programs and posters related to the prevention of violence in stadiums, against violence in sports, in sports competitions as well as outside them. The national strategy for preventing behavioural disorders for children and young people for 2009 to 2012 contains the identification of procedures for early detection of risk families and children as well as the design of programmes in the local community. The Ministry of Health and Social Care monitors the occurrences of violence in all primary and secondary education institutions and by types of physical injury events, violent behaviour, sexual delicacies, robbery, murder, burglary, theft, drug abuse, unauthorized use of firearms, etc. The law on trade is also important to say, the Law on measures to limit the use of tobacco products and the Law on catering activities has positive effects on these groups. The Law on Plays of Happiness and Reward Games prescribes stricter provisions for children and youth, and ads and advertisements must not be published in radio and TV shows for children and youth. As a longtime employee and a social care centre employee, I must also point out that the experiences of social care professionals testify about thousands of children and young people with behavioral disorders that are today successful family people, responsible parents and professionals. To point out that they are very friendly to the experts who led them through their mature and responsible growth, they are grateful for the help and direction they have received from them. Finally, the position of the HDZ Representatives Club is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its institutions are taking measures and procedures that give successful results in preventing and preventing and combating violence between children and young people under the conditions set out above, giving full support to adopted strategies and programmes. This government is also important to point out, it has included all institutions of the state and entities dealing in different ways with children and young people, and the results are apart from effective preventive measures and effective intervention measures. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives' Club Interpellation on the work of the Government in connection with the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in preventing and combating the growing violence of delinquency, crime, and the risk of behaviour among children and young people refuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50262	Thank you. We have two corrections, first is Honorable Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50263	Thank you. As regards the esteemed colleague, she mentioned a number of laws, the Law on Attending Activity, the Law on Trade did not adopt anything positive and did not bring about any shifts, regardless of the application of the State Inspectorate, etc. So I invite my colleague to go to any city in Croatia or village, municipality or city... Look, be cultural enough. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50264	I'm sorry, Your Honor, you didn't say what you were correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50265	So I'm correcting the assumption that the Law on Trade and the Law on Attending Activity has defined a reduction in the risk of delinquency towards young people, if you've been listening to an esteemed colleague. So don't take away my word. I'm using this correction of an incorrect quote until it is lifted very well, with Mr. President being far more democratic, far more burning red light while HDZ was correcting corrections.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50266	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you very much. ... Thanks, it's expired. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Your Honor, sir, thank you very much. We have a second correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Sonja Šimunović. ... Please, Your Honor. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50267	One sentence of you... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50268	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50269	... the town in Croatia or the municipality and after 3 hours see how many young people are on the streets. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50270	Thank you very much. The second correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Sonja Šimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50271	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A esteemed colleague said the following, says the government is aware of the problem of growing violence among young people, aware of the harmful consequences, the government is taking everything in its power to solve the problem. That's where I'd fix the quote the next way. The government is not doing everything in its power to solve the problem because in order to solve the problem other than knowledge and expertise it needs money and according to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, in total, all items relating to children and young people reduce funds for 27 million kuna. The Ministry of Health and Social Care, despite alarming indicators from the MUP and the State's Attorney's Office, is precisely a means of caring for children with behavioral disorders, is less than one million kuna. So the government isn't going to do everything possible but even lifts funds that are not enough to solve such a serious problem anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50272	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. It's the turn of the HNS Club's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50273	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the esteemed interpelicists, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The aim of this debate today in our HNS is to reiterate the problem of violence between children and young people in our society, with the desire and need to combat the problem more effectively and ultimately stop. Let me point out some key parts of the interpretation for us. According to the Ministry of the Interior, 730 crimes against life and the body were committed by minors in 2008, and this increased by 19.48% compared to 2007. In the first nine months of 2009. The interior ministry records as many as 109 perpetrators of crimes under the age of 14. It is particularly surprising to see an increase in the number of criminal offences of illicit weapons possession in the young population, which is growing by 16.7% in 2008. Alcohol consumption at weekends increased from 13% to 39% in 15-year-olds and from 4 to 16% in 15-year-old women aged 95-2007. The state's attorney's office further says that the crime of inflicting severe injuries is marked by an increase in 2007 and 2008 in which minors and younger minors share as much as 37.8% of the total number of applications against life and body while participating in the overall criminality with a percentage of 15%. In 2008, an increase of about 13% was reported compared to 2007 for crimes of violence, minors and minors. The State Statistics Institute says that as many as 958 minors in the Republic of Croatia were sentenced in 2008 with sanctions imposed. Children and youth care homes are converted to receiving a child for diagnostic treatment or are expected to be treated for an average of two to three months. Unfortunately, the number of professionals does not adequately monitor the increase in number and complexity of youth problems. The lack of funding in the state budget is listed as an obstacle to the employment of the necessary experts. The savings in this segment are, in our opinion, highly harmful and in the aftermath of spending more than currently harming us. In addition to the insufficient number of professional staff, insufficient investment is made in the education of existing staff. Interpellation discusses parallel activities on the ground, which points to the absence of an operational strategy in part of the social care system. It underlines the importance of court proceedings in terms of urgency because practice is too often contrary in which in 70% of cases it takes more than six months to complete a juvenile procedure. The consequences are often further delinquent behavior. The 2008 Ombudsman report shows that the number of individual applications for protection against violence in educational institutions has increased significantly compared to 2007. There is no doubt that in this case violence endangers the very educational process itself and we are witnessing that forms of peer violence in schools are becoming more difficult and cruel. In particular, this is visible on internet social networks where peer hatred is being performed, calls for violence and the disdain of individuals. The data further states that only about every fourth elementary school and about every fourth secondary school have a psychologist or a similar profile, which is far from the state pedagogical standard and, at the same time, at the Employment Office, they are waiting for the same necessary experts who are needed in preventing and stopping violence between children and young people. Of course, all of this needs to be paid, and the State budget for 2010 shows significant savings in both the areas of prevention programmes for children and young people and in areas relating to children and young people in general. It is said in the interpretation that last June the government adopted a programme of activities to prevent violence among young people for 2009. The first measure in that programme was to establish a risk group of young people whose implementation deadline expired in June 2009. Interpellation says there's no data, and I didn't find any data like that anywhere, so maybe there are, so I couldn't find them. The government was obliged to adopt a national child protection strategy against abuse and neglect. The deadline for adoption expired in 2006. Today we also heard from the government representatives here a report and we at the HNS welcome every activity, every law passed, all strategy, but given the situation on the ground, it's not enough. And allow me to conclude. The inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia have been, for the past 20 years, and today, participants and victims of major social turmoil, overemployment or unemployment, culture, consumerism, various forms of violence they have not responded to or even encouraged by themselves, disintegration and abandoning true values. In doing so, we must have hoped or thought that this harsh and harsh reality would leave no consequences for our children. All those years, colleagues and colleagues, and today children observe and teach us. The question arises whether, as a state, we had an appropriate legislative framework and implementing rules. Are we as parents, as well as society, responding to the first sign of abnormal behavior in a child or may we have closed our eyes before that? Have we developed a system of social welfare and support for families? Did we hire experts and have preventive and intervention programs for children? And did we spend enough money on all these years? The answer is yes, but not enough because as long as there is only one Luke or only one Philip, we must not be satisfied with the measures taken and the funds invested. And finally, it is necessary to work daily on the system, I underline, on a system of educational values that will apply to school, parents, society as a whole, with an emphasis on the media. I repeat, with an emphasis on the media, with enough financial resources to be invested primarily in prevention. That's why we at the HNS Club saw the impediment primarily as a wish and encourage everyone to fight violence among young people more effectively and ultimately stop. Therefore, the HNS club will support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50274	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations that the colleague presented in her debate, and it is said that strategies and national plans of the government do not achieve anything. On the contrary, my colleague, from the report given by the minister of the family, the defender and the intergenerational solidarity, you heard the data. And otherwise, it would be worth correcting a lot of what you said because you showed that you only read the data from the interpretation without paying any attention to the data that the government gave in its answer. So much for the experts and the attorney's office, so nothing positive, the Ministry of the Family is doing anything positive but just negatively from the interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50276	Thank you. We have a second correction to the incorrect assumption. Dear representative Neda Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a representative who says that he is not investing enough in the education of staff. On the contrary, because one of the priorities of the Ministry of Health and Social Care is the creation of a mandatory programme of education of professional workers, then lifelong education, the establishment of professional chambers, as well as educated experts to conduct a supervisory vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50278	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50279	Thank you very much. I am correcting an incorrect indication of the lack of professional staff and of insufficient investment in education. On the contrary, in education of homes for child and youth, as well as experts in children's homes, centres for social care, courts, family centres, police stations, continuous education is being conducted. One of them is currently under way, conducting a program of education of experts for the program of art therapy, anger control training. And if there aren't enough experts for example, I'll tell you, about the professional associates in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, in the school year 2009/2010. In total, 4005 professional associates were employed. Furthermore, let me not tell you about psychologists and others, but there will be opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50280	Thank you. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50281	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Will the IDS Club support this interpretation? Of course we will, first of all, because of all those names Mrs. Opacic mentioned, and to whom something terrible happened, not only to them, but to their families at the earliest age of life. However, I also agree with this side of the HDZ Club, rarely but this time, yes, that perhaps never, ever since the early '90s since I was in Parliament, the government has not delivered one more detailed, one more credible report than it has done this time with a whole series of data, figures, etc. It is clear that there are certain objections, but good now, on page 29, it is said that there are significantly fewer crimes recorded in 2009 for the abuse of intoxicating drugs than in 2007. It's clearly statistics. I don't believe that in 2007, there was less drugs on our streets or in our markets than there were in 2007. But clearly, you should agree to the thesis that they are less sanctioned. So the judiciary didn't do the job or the police anyway, which doesn't mean that the problem of addiction in 2009 is smaller than 2010. However, I wouldn't even answer the word and that, even if I were being interpelled, in response to the government, that is. This report from 4.2.2010 may not have left out a chapter that I think may be important in which this report or interpretation does not speak. In fact, many media outlets have written about this recently, especially since I don't mention them here right now, and then I have to read it simply says that in 2009, 45807 children were born which is 2,000 babies more than 2008. That's clearly good. But the number of deaths in 2009 was as much as 53865 or the dead in 2009 was cca 8,000 more than they were born. Of course they died, the born had nothing to do with violence among young people, but what matters. The number of divorced parents, that's certainly important. That's not what you're talking about. Clearly it's all for people, it's all normal. I'm not saying, God forbid someone here would get me wrong if the kids of divorced parents were more social than others. Don't let God impute that to me. Otherwise, what I want to say. In 2009, 26160 marriages were completed, 3000 more than in 2008. And that's good, but every fifth marriage split up. So 5038 of them while in Istria this ratio is not 1:5, but 1:3 with a tendency 1:2. I'm not going to say that there's a need to look for what I know for some reason of some aggression. But it is certain that these children should be treated as well as all others spoken of by Mrs. Opacic about families, raising, asking how someone is prone to violence, how someone doesn't know how to reach a knife or a gun on his colleague, or is willing to express himself so harshly with a baseball bat. Today, there are 4 million 429 thousand inhabitants in our country. 2025 will be less than 4 million. All 3 million 918 thousand. It turns out that, to be cynical, in 15 years we will be deprived of the problems of violence, of delinquency among young people because we will be a very old nation. I said, it's cynicism maybe the worst kind. But this says that, with all the problems, the number one Croatian problem becomes demographic at the moment. Because we're going to have a hard time solving a clear problem of unemployment, we're going to have a hard time solving the problem of external debt, of crime among young people, of old people, of this, of that. But this demographic problem seems like we can't solve anything, and it's the primary question of survival, perhaps even the nation. Because, among other things, this demographic needs to answer how much budget spending can be, where to save, where to invest, what I know, where, how to develop. How to set up a pension policy, health, social, etc. On the other hand, what are the opportunities in our youth society or how colleagues on the right would say youth or perhaps youth in Istria? It's still our youth, or those youngsters are still too good to know what's waiting for them, I think we should start rebelling in kindergarten, and there's nothing good waiting for them. We today set things up in a way that we normally need to solve ourselves for what is absolutely natural, for that is how we solve our descendants. But in general, when it comes to young people every future generation, I'm afraid in this space it's going to be harder and harder. And it's harder for boys and girls to know who stepped up to their age five years ago, than it was for those who stood in front of 10 or 15, and I'm afraid in five years or so today it's going to be even harder. What's the problem? We get to work places where we hire these people. Every day in this country, five hundred people talk about working days is out of a job. Every day he calls me, not just me, but every one of you a dozen people. He's looking for a job, a loan, some contest. You have to tell him right away that, I'll call, I'll contact him, but make sure everything is legal. For what time it is you never know what can impute you and why you can be called. But if the youngsters can't get a job, no matter how I joke, we won't even avoid the revolution. Maybe it wouldn't be bad to start over if we did the expropriator expropriation. But if we did, we'd be hungry. The system would collapse. 2010 is not '48. when they said I could eat pot. But to return now to 2010 and this report, that is, impelation. I said absolutely IDS will support this interpretation. It's a subject, it's a matter to talk about. Even though it absolutely can't be said that nothing was done, but as the predecessors said, it costs all of it. And the order needs to be reached in the budget, and nearly half of Croatia does not work but lives from redistribution is something that at the moment when we know what time will be more than bold, although I agree with young people as much as it costs to cost. The old ones too, the defenders also, the unemployed also, the officers of everything they ask for, the MPs. So that we don't forget the same thing, I'm joking clearly. However, no matter what is certain here, it is evident in the interpretation on page six that the government's already mentioned report on the implementation of the national plan for children's rights and interests for 2008 that the National Strategy for Child Protection against Child Abuse and Neglectation was not adopted even though the deadline for decision-making expired in 2006. Clearly, then a man asks himself a question, and it certainly matters why so, but it is certain that we will all agree on this violence the most important family, then school, society, here I think safely of the church, and it is good that Mr Bozanić, our archbishop, told us that every abuse of children should be reported, not only by church, but also by civil authorities. I want to believe that Croatia cannot compare with Ireland, God forbid, but evil should not be trusted and supported by Bozanic and Popes. You can't say, I'll say one more time, there's nothing to do, some quoted from some data, so let me say the same thing. So we'll see that in 2007, it was in our primary schools of 727 pedagogues, 2008. 780, 2009 means that this trend is no longer so pronounced in growth, but still more than in 2008. 783, we had a defector in 2007 at 2008. 362, 2008 at 2009 392, 2009 at 2010. 396 and the psychologist had more and more librarians and social workers. Well, I probably agree, and there were more health care professionals in schools. So the number of 2 thousand 249 of these people totaled with healthcare professionals as they say has increased to 2 thousand 480 here. It should simply be admitted that something has been done. Page 37 lists the number of police intervention procedures among young people. That's where the problems are. In the first place Zagreb County, so Split-Dalmatia, so Osijek-Baranja, Istria, it's not good, I see 116 such police interventions was, it's a lot compared to the Primorje-Gorski County where there was twice as much intervention as in Istria, etc., and it's bigger than Istria County. I'm clearly trying to get back to the drug problem one more time. It's wound cancer right now, how to deal with it. It seems paradoxical, but the bigger the crisis, and we're already 19% unemployed, the bigger the problem is going to escalate or be, and that's why I'm sorry, and it's one of those moments that, I'm not going to say, put order into society, but it's simply taking care of every single person's population, so it's why we need to support this interpretation, help parents, help schools, or schools, we need to get involved in all of this and the church and the media, which my predecessor from the HNS club talked about, one word everyone needs to do as they say their pain, because I'm afraid when it comes to violence, if we don't break up sooner it'll be worse than what's going to be better. If more jobs were probably better, like this, when no one knows what's waiting for him, when that uncertainty is almost absolute, I think it's a topic that's not for politicizing, it's not a topic where MPs should be shared, it should clearly stand foot on the ground and try to make a contribution to a problem that can be escalated sooner than it can be controlled under quotes. All in all, we will support this relevant interpretation because I think it has come at the right time to draw attention to and this problem of opportunity in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50282	Thank you. It's SDP's turn, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen and Mrs. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Violence between children and young people has become a growing and more common problem in recent years. Violence is what not only children are facing, parents are facing, teachers, experts from different profiles are facing the entire community. Unfortunately, violence between children and young people has become essentially our daily routine, which we can witness daily through numerous newspaper articles, contributions to peer violence and abuse. Unfortunately, as is already said in public, media exposure is the very ones that have the most terrible consequences, the death of a young person or the severe physical and psychological consequences of the victim’s life, although ultimately every type of violence and abuse leaves an indelible mark in young people. Let's start with a few facts. I think we should all agree with them here today. The first is that violence between children and young people is totally unacceptable, and in particular we must be concerned about the growth of new types and forms of violent behavior, which eventually get more and more sophisticated forms. Furthermore, compared to children and youth, to their development, education, behavior, we all agree on the key role of the family, but if the family doesn't work, and today we have to agree to more and more families that are dysfunctional, semi-functioning, so on. risk families that have become or are for various reasons. E, this country must provide mechanisms that can and must resupervise missing or incomplete family functions to some extent. After all, the first opportunity to meet a different formalized and structured type of educational approach is taking place by enrolment in some of the primary educational institutions, and there would have to be a whole new and very valuable space for the adoption of both new knowledge and quality social behaviours, and there is the chance that the state will try to correct any unacceptable behaviours that the child is exhibiting from the beginning and the families from which such a child comes from. And thirdly, our country recognized that violence between young people and children is a big problem, and we all agree, we have a number of strategies, we have a number of programs, protocols, working groups, commissions, a number of laws, certain legal provisions, but our problem is not that we don't know how to produce it, that we don't know how to make a strategy, some kind of program, some kind of plan, protocol, all this together nice writing it down. The problem is that we're not doing enough of what we're writing down. Or maybe we're doing it in an unskilled and inefficient way, or in one part of the environments are being carried out by people who are not yet professional enough, not sufficiently educated. Either what's worse, there are cases that these programs, strategies and protocols are not implemented by anyone because, or maybe they don't understand the importance of everything that we've been bringing, or they know that ultimately for their non-implementation and no one's going to answer. When it comes to the protocol of conduct, when it comes to violence among children, I don't remember anyone ever answering. I'm separating it from some other protocols and some other policies. All of us in these programs, strategies and plans are happy to recall every debate on the issue of violence among young people, either here in the Parliament, or somewhere on some round table. We have a National Plan for Children's Rights, we have a National Youth Programme, we and the National Strategy for Prevention of Disabilities and Behavior of Children and Youth from 2009 to 2012, but I ask someone who is responsible for responding as much as the Minister himself said, this strategy was adopted in 2009, and if I am not mistaken in one of our many plans was written to bring in 2006. So that's our problem, too. Which we write down, and then I guess we don't have time and we forget to spend it and then we bring a couple of years late and nobody else. All these years, let's be honest, we still realize that some things obviously don't work out well, that there's something wrong and that something's wrong. Because when we tell a story about the problem of violence among young people, then everyone is unhappy. Then dissatisfied experts who work with these young people and families are dissatisfied teachers, dissatisfied parents, dissatisfied children because they themselves are victims of violence. It turns out, somehow even after today's debate here, that I guess the government is only satisfied because we have all these regulations, we have all these strategies, and often it's a little hard to read out what is actually being done, what are the effects of the final measures implemented, and the hardest thing to do is to determine, of course, how much of this is intended to be spent or spent. And they've been given these funds, essentially, and they've been used on purpose. The state's attorney's office has been reporting on a more or less uniform share of violence among minors for the past few years. So, like domestic violence, we've had one constant for several years. A constant number, which we can bicker at is 2% more or 2% less, but violence among young people is constant. She's here. And with only the State's Attorney's Office warning that it is to express an increase when it comes to acts of serious injury. And compared to 2007 in 2008, 13% increased crimes of violence of minors and minors. Children's and youth rearing homes have been over-tracted. I see there's no State Secretary of Social Affairs, in one good part they've been neglected. And the number of professional workers today definitely no longer adequately monitors the increase and number, but also the complexity of the problems that young people face today. Well, here's what I'd like to ask, maybe he'll come back, remember, and it's recently written about, issues at the House for Child and Youth Education in Osijek. And I'm very interested in whether, after all these papers, the Minister of Health and Social Care has done anything about it? We, as a society, are faced with nothing, but any savings in this particular sector, it must be clear to us, it's multiplely harmful. We're wondering, we're at the SDP club, and what about expert education? These experts themselves, different profiles, ask for such education themselves, but ultimately, you can't deny it, they're left to themselves. And there is still no operational strategy in part of the social care system responsible for the protection and treatment of young people and children with behavioural disorders. Well, please, there was a meeting of the Youth Council the other day. The vice-president of the government, he was the second vice-president, he was the minister of the family, and I ask you at that meeting of the government named, so the same thing was to combat and prevent violence among young people, please, it has been decided to gather for the first time the principals of all primary schools in Primosten where they will be spoken, because it is said that education of children, parents, teachers, especially in primary schools, and the first education of multidisciplinary teams in Bjelovar was also announced in April of the month. And this educator in the form of seminars that would sensitize experts, representatives of welfare centres, police, directors, etc. for the problem of child abuse and neglect in the family, peering, etc. So what are we talking about today? I'm sorry, we're right. You're part of the measures that you've already drawn plans and programs haven't worked in an obviously efficient way yet. Furthermore, is it mentioned today what happened to court proceedings? What can be done about it? Because regardless of the urgency in over 70% of the cases, these procedures are longer in 6 months and are definitely directly in line with the fact that, in the meantime, while the proceedings are ongoing, we have 30% relapsers. Let's just remember one of Luke Ritz's most impressive cases that a minor who was involved in an attack on him in the meantime while the trial was pending more violent behavior. What about our education system? I see, there's no State Secretary from the Ministry of Education anymore. In 2008, the attorney general found a 67% increase in the number of violent behaviors in our schools. On the one hand, he is threatened by the educational and educational process, and the forms of violent behavior are becoming more difficult and cruel. And then isn't it a devastating piece of information, which we boast about? That we have one psychologist on 1009 students in primary schools. One psychologist to 1009 students. We have one defecologist on 863 students, one educator on 436 students. If I am not mistaken, we have adopted some standards in this Croatian Parliament and by 2012, so in 2 years, we will have to come to an expert associate between 100 and 150 children. So how do we do it in two years if we're talking about hundreds and thousands of students covered by an expert associate? How many, further, staff in schools, teaching and every other staff in schools, because... Violence among students only teachers themselves, there are some auxiliary staff working in these schools who are trained to recognize violence in the very beginnings, to recognize child problems exposed to violence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The case of the crafts school in Sisak has already been mentioned today, a school case in Bjelovar was mentioned. In this situation in Sisak, it is even more difficult that the student complained to the classroom and teachers, telling him that it was nothing, that it should be endured, etc., and here it was an additional type of violence. I'm very interested in whether or not it's been recognized at all, but this boy was marked among other things because, in the opinion of a student, he chose a woman's profession. And that's where the violence was committed. And let's just take these two examples and pray for answers, whether in those two examples or in any other school, sanctioned teachers and those who have disobeyed the cry of students, individual students who are exposed to violence. The 2006 survey conducted in Croatia shows that students at least address teachers when there is peer violence because they think they will not help them, they are probably taught some other experiences. And I guess that should be kind of like a lamp if things don't go right in our system. Experts further warn and all of us are full of mouth stories about prevention, the importance of prevention, the halting of waves of violence, among children and young people, I will tell you today how much we have reduced funding for this year when it comes to all programmes that are intended for children, so I will just pull out the one from the Ministry of Education where it is said that by 24 million kuna, we say 27, but well, 24 million kuna is reduced funding and there are three million kuna left to implement all possible programmes that go in any way towards children when it comes to the Ministry of Education. Family centers, please, let someone tell me, they're mentioned here several times today, apostropheed as something that's been done, that works with risk families, that works with children with behavioral disorders, tell me on what basis, in the law it's not their role. If this is their role, then I ask the exact report on how many of these risk groups of families have gone through, whether through various training and seminars, through family centres, with how many students of victims of violence or students with behavioral disorders have gone through family centres, please the exact data, which were those who went through special programs through social care centres. Because under the Family Centers Act, they shouldn't do that. Therefore, as the SDP Club, allow only the final sentence, as the SDP Club we are looking for new activities, we are looking for a turn-off and we are looking for a responsible coordinated action when it comes to violence between young people and peer violence, because production of plans, programmes and strategies does not make sense unless we have a return...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50284	Thank you. Please stick to time like everyone else. Thank you very much. I beg you don't bring me here if I have to warn you, it's time for us to stick to it and beg you to hold on to it. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations, so she is the first respected representative of the Zeljana Podruga.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for starting with, I will only correct one quote, because I see that the others have come forward as well. Mrs Sobol said that those who do not report cases of violence or those who do not comply with the protocols we have adopted will not be punished. That is not true, I will as a result of monitoring the implementation of the rules, concrete corrections have been introduced, I quote, for example, in the Law on Protection against Family Violence in which among others there are fines for educators, doctors, experts and others who do not even question the existence of violence. And if you know of any individual infringement case, it is also your duty to report it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50286	Thank you. The second correction is the alleged esteemed representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that the length of court proceedings against minors is longer than six months. According to the Zagreb County Court, during the course of proceedings against minors and cases at the expense of children and youth for crimes in 2009 there were 14 cases. In 2 cases it was 1 to 15 days, in 2 15 to 30 days, in 4 1 to 2 months, in one case it was 2 to 3 months, so about 28%, and in one case it was 7.14%, 6 to 7 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50288	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50289	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct the misrepresentation of a representative lady who says there is no strategy to treat children with behavioral disorders. This is incorrect, because it is the exact opposite of what all entities involved in judicial, health, educational, social institutions would do to children and young people with behavioral disorders. In addition, during my debate, I said that the development of social care at the Social Care Centres where the way the service is provided through the office is all in one place, through the aim of achieving results.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50290	Thank you. Dear representative Susana Bilić-Vardić, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption, my colleague here said that someone here boasted, a number can quote, one psychologist to 1009 students, a colleague, if your question was rhetorical, there were elements of malignancy in that. There is much more than what you have shown in the interpretation of how many professional school associates have been employed, and as the government has floored all tables per year, it is evidence that this number is increasing year after year. And even when you talk about family centers, family centers are a prevention for both young and children, so you will agree that the whole story is much more important than the treatment itself that causes violence among young people. And the government has given a good look at what the family centers have been doing in recent years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50292	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sobol said that the government is the only one satisfied with the situation in this space of violence among young people, it's absolutely incorrect. A normal person can be satisfied if a young person gets beaten up or not, God forbid what's even harder. Therefore, the government is making every effort to correct the situation. In addition, what Mr. Cain said was that the number of psychologists, defecologists, etc. was increased. and that is true that they are in permanent education, chamber-organised as counterpart Klaric said. So, you should do and everyone should get involved, of course the Church said the same thing to counterpart Cain in that part, and absolutely there includes prevention of drug abuse, not to advocate legalisation of easy drugs, and where to eliminate dear colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50294	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 11.43 minutes. It is next on behalf of the HDSSB club, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State. Here's what I think is breaking spears today, and even in a section called common naked statistics and data that are substrated on both sides and reports by the Minister and the Government, and yet on the other hand in this interpretation. And then I don't really understand who's right about it, even though it's all about the pure numbers of facts and data. However, never a lot of debate on this subject, and it is good that today this topic is on the agenda, which is very important for Croatian society, a society where we want to be a society of knowledge but also a society of order and work. A hundred years ago, one of our politicians was about this topic, although he did not participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament at the time, said that the foundation of Croatian society must be a family and should be a family. The second is that the Croatian school should not only be an educational institution but also a educational institution. These two settings if we were to elaborate and consider today, then we are quite clear to come up with facts that do not need to indicate how much money is allocated to the ministry for this purpose, how much is that reduction or increase by 2.2% in the millions of kunas, etc. It is clear that violence, delinquency, crime, risky behavior among children and young people is on the rise. Why is that? Let's start with that setup, and that's family. At the time we live in action is that black liberal capitalism in which mothers find a job good part in here to list chains of department stores, working from 8 a.m. to 20 a night. A child carrying a key to an apartment or a house around the neck of a necklace comes into that house. Who's his friend? Who raises him in that home? And the father does, say, where luck works. TV, cell phone, internet. Who's his company? A drug dealer in front of a school who greets him neatly and regularly without any police supervision or God forbid any action against him, so drugs are the possibility and availability of alcohol, cigarettes. And then we're surprised when at an adolescent age or a similar person who didn't bring home the warmth of her family, she didn't take one social life training to become a delinquent. School, well, you see, I got a lot of tips from teachers, or teachers and teachers, that they can't apply any funds or actions to children according to the law and standards, but that many of them are afraid of school students, afraid of physical accounting by students, to watch their backs when they go after school. How far did we get in our education system that teachers, teachers, teachers even fear students? Not only is there violence among young people themselves, but there is this kind of fear. And there have been cases, we know that well in both the public and the media, such cases have been made public. So, we have a strategy, we have plans, we have laws that are listed nicely by Mr. Minister here, but besides all that, we have this problem and it's very, very current and daily we read about the media in schools of Bjelovar, Sisak, Osijek, Vukovar etc. serious things happen, severe crimes of beating, physical harassment, mild and severe bodily injury, etc. Which is really very, very hard to understand and read. I'm a doctor. As a surgeon, I've been asked very often by my parents, can kids go to school with crutches? Do you know what my recommendation was, even though he might be teaching on crutches as far as the doctor is concerned, not to go on crutches to school. If I had come to school like this and returned to my school age, you might have been or probably been pushed up the stairs, etc. Why is that? Why would that child who pushed someone so did not receive instruction and instruction in his home in his family and in his school that it was something that was wrong? Now we come to that number of psychologists, educators, defecologists and professional associates and everything that is listed in this interpretation as insufficient, and I believe that the same is insufficient but self-conceived and that the work of those who do so is insufficient, who are employed in this matter. Furthermore, when we discussed the standards of preschool, school and other education, then it was stated in statistics that 55% of Croatian children attended kindergarten, 45% were never in kindergarten. We don't have a network of kindergartens in Croatia. There are four or five kindergartens in Brod-Posavina County, which will correct me because she has better information than I do. So he's going to have a chance to correct an incorrect allegation. So, which can't be covered by all preschool kids. This education and this relationship, this notional relationship with life, work, is more honest not to say since the third year of kindergarten. This aunt, the psychologist in kindergarten and the others they begin with a clear, first I emphasized the family in the first place, they from that age begin to say to form consciousness, the soul of the child. And we have information that only 55% of our children attend kindergarten. Why is that? They say the state is in recession, crisis. He's been in crisis for 20 years and they say the recession is a year. So it wasn't exactly a recession a year and a half ago, at least not according to Prime Minister Sanader's former and Mr. Shucker and the others. And even then it didn't worry about it when there wasn't a recession, when I suggested from this pay phone here a French model in children's kindergartens where all children have free kindergartens. It is clear now that it has been transferred to local self-government and regional and some other institutions, churches, etc. which may be the founders or founders of kindergartens and their owners but I think the state is above local self-government, the state is above regional self-government, the state has tools that someone likes to say to instruments that can be arranged and that kind of thing. There's no room for savings when it comes to our children. There is no room for recession when it comes to our children, our young people, our adolescents, there is no room for savings when it comes to saving in terms of that expert staff and all other measures implementing the strategy when it comes to such a truly apparent increase in violence, delinquency, crime among young people. So from this interpretation that I tried to try in some paragraphs that are listed here and comment on myself and one of them lists professional associates for primary school education, which is a educator, psychologist, education-rehabilitation profile expert, librarian and health worker, I guess to provide first aid when someone with a baseball bat as someone said the other day beat or I don't know what. And one more thing, it looks like we're going to have to hire bodiesguards at school to protect children and teachers from violence. Indeed, the phenomenon is very widespread, so perhaps we should include it in this interpretation. That's really so much to the team and you should go to school and see, stand aside and watch a big vacation, a little vacation and what happens after leaving school or leaving the school on the face of the place "on the face of the crying". Here's a series of unemployed graduate criminals that the state is producing to a large extent, so maybe we should include them. Furthermore, who prevents it, I personally saw with my own eyes a school in Slavonski Brod drug dealers handing out joints to children in primary school leaving school. There's no police anywhere. Well, I'm not gonna be a cop. I can report it, but he's gone when the police come and he comes. Well, it's a general phenomenon, everybody knows, it's a public secret that drugs are being dealt even, not even by primary schools. Internet, chat. So who does that kid when he comes I say at this stage of black liberal capitalism has any talk at all in his house? With no one. With a virtual world, with virtual people, and then on that virtual sort of basis, you have a series with such a horrible topic of crime, etc. And to the rest of the thriller, I don't know what it's called, they really have role models, false patterns of their behavior and attitude towards the world and life. Let's all get together regardless of HDZ being SDP let's imagine about it. We don't need contradictions in terms of statistics, it's dry. Let's agree that these strategies, these programs, are being implemented. And what he proposes in his interpretation of the SDP is also useful and let's not just say it by party, we reject it but also apply what is proposed in this interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50296	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić-Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50297	Thank you very much. A colleague, Grubisic, said basic schools employ healthcare professionals for those who hit them with a baseball bat. I'm correcting that inaccuracies. My colleague Grubisic, health care professionals are employed in primary schools only in those schools that educate children with developmental difficulties. This is indicated if you had read the government material you would have found. But let me help you when you asked me for help. There are only two institutions for preschool education in Brod-Posavina County, Nova Gradiška and Slavonski Brod. Several municipalities are also involved in the composition of the two pre-school institutions and the other municipalities have managed with shorter programmes, i.e. playrooms for which they have certified programmes, verification given by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. We can't be satisfied, but I'm afraid below this average state average of 55% of children included in preschool education, that's helping you, but it's a matter of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50298	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. On behalf of the promoter before the sequel, the esteemed representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50299	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to add a few more things that I haven't been able to say in the opening statement, and one part of it was a little encouraged by Mr. Grubisic. I would like first of all to say that I am glad that actually clubs other than HDZ and HSS, which are not interested in this topic, so it seems to me that no one has debated on behalf of the club, have pleaded that they will support interpretation or rather say that the problem of violence among young people exists and that something needs to be done. When you spoke to your colleague Grubisic here about that it may be a problem in that too, so with all the strategies and with the experts we have that these experts are not doing their job, which means we are going back to what I said at first, which is that we have an inefficient system when it comes to children. Then I'd like to read you one confession from a boy who is 14 years old and was arrested for beating other children in a Zagreb passerby. He says, "I love playing games with fights, so I thought I'd do it in reality. I suggested the idea of friends, and they agreed. Some of them just watched the fights, but I always banged in the head, shoes, and I felt so good. Now all I have to do is wait for the storm to pass, so I'll probably move on. I don't mind causing a fight on my own. Dad's asking me if I'm breaking anything, and I'm admitting it. That's what he tells me he used to do when he was a kid. The brother also fights, and in the evening we exchange experiences." I read this to show you that when a child is 14 years old, it can think this way that the most important thing in life he enjoys is the beating of other people, beating up others, and that's not only because he's playing games that are absolutely blood and violence but is the problem and the family in which it's supported. So his father asks him, therefore, is a family in which such behavior is widely supported by his parents, apparently by his father. However, the question is why did no one notice that it was a risky family by the age of 14. It was seen quite certainly before, he did not suddenly show it at the age of 14. This is something that was present before, so the question of what the system in that part was doing was that the child had not already been included in some of the treatments to help him. But this same boy says, "I better beat them now that I'm 14 and I'm 18, so I can end up in jail. Now there's nothing they can do to me." It's the logic of children, and now I'm going to tell you why such logic is children. They have children, they may not read with a 14-year-old newspaper, they don't read some things that are written, but they have their own communication that spreads their information and interesting news to them. Why is that? Because we have an inefficient judicial system. When a murder, as a rule, is found immediately by the one who committed the murder, has been delayed for more than two years, then the sanctions imposed on that minor is absolutely ineffective at that time. It no longer has the same effect as it would have had if it had been said in the first six months. This is exactly what it looks like to you. Frano Despic was killed in the 3rd month of 2008, so the boy's death ended for two years. There's no verdict, there won't be any regrets because the police did the job so the perpetrator can't be determined. Therefore, Frano Despic lost his life because of boys like this, as I have now read, because of theirs I will say nadaadic thinking, nakaradic consciousness. But there is no verdict, no one will answer, no one will be sanctioned. For Luka Ritz, who died in June in 2008, the same will now be completed for two years, no verdict. My colleague Sobol here said the shame was that the children who beat Luke Ritz, who killed him, were, in the meantime, in the full two years that the court failed to pass the verdict, were at large. One of them has already beaten up other kids twice, and you know what parents ask as a question? Do we have an effective system to protect our children from such children? Well, I think anyone who has kids here must be worried, I'm terribly worried. My people, these children walk in Croatia, walk in our cities, in our settlements, and we don't have an effective mechanism to sort of move these children away and protect other children. So, they killed Luka Ritz, but they've been walking neatly for two years, God forbid they can kill anyone else, so far people have just been killed with easier or worse injuries. Why for two years there's no verdict, that's what the people of the judiciary have to say. Josip Klasnic, who died, seems to me in Vinkovci too in 2008, has no conviction for two years. There's no verdict. You know who the perpetrators are, no convictions. Why isn't there a verdict? After two years to whom the verdict means more, especially when it comes to children. And in the end, Vitomir Jovice Simke, there's been no verdict for a year. Therefore, until the judiciary is truly on an emergency procedure, we do these cases, until within six months the verdict and sanctions of those minors are determined, we do not have the effect we would have. The moment Luke Ritz's murderers were released among that young population, it was this very sentence that this young man here said: "I can't do anything." They let them go, they can't hurt us. That's something we can't do. The system must send a message that violent behavior is inadmissible, that it will be sanctioned and that no matter how old they were 11, 14, that's why the age limit goes down because they know that by that year we can't do anything like this, they can't put me in jail. So, no matter how much that line was coming down, children need to know that they have to bear conjecture for soy behavior and that must be the message of society. Violence is unacceptable, and you will have to bear the consequences for your behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50300	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative, Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to correct the name of the representative lady who says we don't have an effective legal system. This is incorrect because, along with the whole range of educational measures during the preparatory procedure for juvenile perpetrators, lawyers are determined to condition a special obligation to participate in individual or joint work at the Advisory Centre for Children and Youth for which the Centre for Social Care is carried out in family centres, so that, apart from primary, secondary prevention is also important in order to avoid relapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50302	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Violence among young people is a sign of a sick society. Croatia is seriously ill. Where did Croatia get your disease? Her disease stems from sick social structures. Is it normal for us, when children suffer the greatest cause of death in car accidents, suicides, violences of all kinds? The call of violence lies in an unjust society, and Croatia is a deeply unjust country divided into rich and poor, divided into lies and truth. In Croatia the truth is cornered, almost crucified. The law withdraws from injustice. And the question is just as long as that. We need to know that violence of every kind, and especially this, among children and children, does not occur on the margins of society. It's in the very heart of society. And that's why gentlemen should understand that this isn't just a social problem out there with some periphery or margin. The problem will not be solved if we do not realize that violence among young people has become an important political problem and should be treated accordingly. Anyone who doesn't see it sees it doesn't really see anything and that's why we're doing our own impelation. It's precisely her purpose to regain consciousness above all that problem. You're saying it's exaggerating in Croatia when it comes to concrete things. It's not all that black, so you see what's in England, you see what's in Greece, you see what's in Germany. Is that how they argue in their parliaments? We have a problem here and we need to solve it, we need to start solving it. Croatia is not being served, and no problem is being solved in a way that reduces problems. It doesn't seem good to Croatia. It's just a delusion that serves to survive in power for a few days. But that's not how you help Croatia. It's not being helped in a way to tell her that it's worse elsewhere and that she's never felt better in the first place. So, if indeed something rotten was in the state of Denmark, much has rotted in the country of Croatia, and it needs to be revealed and it needs to be treated and removed. And what are the real causes? I've already said something about it, but this problem, this social and sociological and criminologically, would lead us far away. Maybe it's better to concentrate on very specific things. The first most recent survey on this issue, violence among young people, was carried out even further in 1998 when it was conducted by our Institute of Social Research, Ivo Pilar. However, UNICEF has investigated this particular problem in Zagreb's schools. Their results are defeating Croatia. 20% of children have been abused two to three times, and more often. And based on such data, UNICEF concludes that hundreds of thousands of children in Croatia are exposed to the abuse of other children and that there is a five-fold greater likelihood that school thugs will end up in criminal statistics and that the problem is far different from that of 30 years ago. When such dangers even deviant behavior at school were not what they are today. Parents fight for a naked life, they fight for survival. And indeed children who commit violence come often from dysfunctional families. But that's not even true anymore. They come from whole families, come from good families. The main problem is how to prevent violence. In high school it's already almost you have a formed person. However, the problem is ignored. Transfer everything to school and transfer everyone to their parents is done by one irresponsible and unserious government and unserious society as a whole. What they do at school, what parents do. I'm saying, that would be deeply unfair, and it wouldn't lead to real results. In fact, on 26.2.2010 they published "The Wildlife Beat and Left on the Road to Lie". Mostly peaceful students, non-conflict persons, were beaten. Don Ivo Grubisic was saying that unfortunately, a religious scientist at a school in which we had high hopes that we should see what we should do more. The headmaster of a school in which the child, in whom the child who was beaten, teaches me not to order the protocol to report it. He's not ordering protocol, your protocols. Well, it's not Zion protocols. He commands sound logic, orders common sense, and everyone seems to have given up who is invited to do something concrete. The protocol doesn't require her? In Zadar, we have a good example that the judge for the first time has ordered the detention of a bully and for reasons not only not to repeat the act, but precisely because of a bad influence on the public of such a person. And that's what he showed, basically, that people like that can't be heroes. And these young people who answer in courts, who are full of halls, and who, unfortunately, are having a hard time experiencing, that is, we have to wait longer and longer for the court’s epilogue, they are laughing. They're heroes. The more articles in the paper, the more important they are, the harder and more dangerous the work is. In what conditions, we simply cultivate a culture of violence in Croatia. Look at what the commercials look like, no one has responded alive, that's for God's sake in the market, but kids absorb it, that it's good second-guessing, it's beating up the competition, it's beating him up, it's texting. No one's responding to that alive. Drugs is a huge problem, but these children are being carried out in courts, and I am not worried or worried about where the drugs come from on our market, and thus Croatia is washing out its conscience, and protected simply by those who are dealing drugs to children, they are inconceivable to the judiciary, and the whole system is set up so that they have simply become unfathomable, although they are well-known prominent citizens. So, from that cute six-year-old boy who goes through the school door for the first time, he enters the world of social integration, which happens in the next 10 years to become an insolent 16-year-old who, without any reason, beats his peer to death. What was society doing at that time? How many times have we talked from these benches that we need to raise democracy, to settle disputes peacefully, because people aren't born with it, they're born with their aggressions. How do you control them? That's what kindergarten needs to learn. We have received this warning several times from earlier ministers in this government, that promise, that they will introduce an object of education for democracy. Who fears responsible citizens who have their rights, but also have responsibilities, but we are a society without responsibility, in society no one answers, but the government should show that it is responsible. The government can't be responsible for everything, and it's responsible for why, so do the young. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50304	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50305	We are in need of this right now and I would ask for an answer whether the government plans to introduce it to autumn since kindergarten, especially in primary school, education for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50306	Thank you. Now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations, and several replicas. First corrections to incorrect allegations, it is up to the distinguished representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50307	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations, colleague Anticevic, who said that problems are being solved in a way that they're being reduced, that they're not being seen. That's not true. Right here we saw that the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Science are looking at problems as a whole, to see them, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is bringing a whole series of measures that are being implemented on the ground and that is definitely giving results. This should also take into account the important role of a church that advocates ethical and moral norms that must arise precisely from ethically healthy families, the family is the key to everything, and what does the SDP do in all of this? The SDP stands for legalising easy drugs. Well, I think that's the answer to everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50308	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50309	Thank you very much. I am correcting the inaccuracy of my colleague Anticevic, who said that the problem of violence among young people in Croatia is ignored and that only parents and schools, counterpart Anticevic, and you know that this is incorrect, because the problem of addressing the prevention and prevention of violence among young people in the Republic of Croatia is also included in the Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Defence, Family and Intergenerational Solidarity, Ministry of Justice, Civil Society and others. I can't fix what you said, but I've been horrified by several of your statements, especially the fact that Croatia is a sick society, but the fact is, I agree with you, that the patient has.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50310	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50311	I am correcting Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic's incorrect allegations, which said that only irresponsible authorities can transfer the problem of violence to school and parents alone. That's not true. That's what you know for a fact that's not true. It is true that we know that it is an important family and that it is important parents, that it is an important school, but you have denied from your ranks that what they have to do centres, the family centres that are listed here 17, it is about civil society, it is about sports societies, it is about youth clubs, and it is about three, four ministries that are interdisciplinaryly involved in the fight against violence. That's what you know, but it served you handsomely in this exposé you had, held.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50312	Thank you. And now we have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50313	Thank you. A colleague said that violence is an essential political issue seen from the response here of MPs who are persistently trying to level out the decriminalisation and legalisation of easy drugs, so they will need to organise an additional teaching for some. How they'll only understand citizens when they can't. It seems to me that violence is always the result of something, it's just that this society tends to tolerate violence behind closed doors, which is often the introduction to street violence, I can't interpret differently the fact that recently a domestic maniac who raped his own underage child, got his daughter four years in prison. I think it's a sick condition when it happens, and let's not think what better words are that's better and better. No dear friends should speak right... With the apparatus to describe what we live in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a sick condition. Of course she's sick. If that individual is sick and so judgmental, then it's the state that's holding him. In my opinion, he'd get a life sentence, and that sentence doesn't exist. And we're a society full of domestic tarzans, house-steamers, ramboid jerks who beat their own families, and then those victims of violence become thugs themselves. It's no news in social pathology or individual behavior. Until we demystify it, we won't move on. When the state forgives someone who, by his car, as a killer or a gun on a zebra, is trampled by two girls and because he's someone's son and because he's a good government and loves a singer's birds, then the state tolerates a murderer, tolerates violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50314	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50315	I'm saying it, let's not be surprised... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50316	Thank you. I would just like to warn you that the Constitution here says that we have a judicial authority, we have a legislative authority, we have executive power, and when you talk about a judicial authority, and I realize that you're talking about it, you can't talk about the state, but about the judicial authority, we have to be precise. Thank you. Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50317	Here's a fellow Marine you've heard now that the opposition has nothing to say about that authority, about that third branch of government, it's just reserved for the winners to talk about them, and not just talk about it, but another occasion. When you speak, colleague, of minors who end up in prison for getting or adding one joint. Because of the situation in prison, it's a report by the attorney general, under the supervision of our penitentiary, that they execute the sentence with the suspended, notorious rectivists and then go not to education but to the school of crime. And I fully agree with you for saying that these are the most frequently exposed to domestic violence. No one talks about love. We're a hypocritical society that forbids young people to see some half-naked act, but they expose and write there immediately forbidden children under 18, but watch movies where in the first second you already have 10 dead, it seems instructive. And that's never been responded to by the government. That's where our hypocrisy lies. The hypocrite also lies in that all of his strength, the state's power to fight addiction and this drug monster, to turn to those who must be protected, and these are those minors. And that's why we're dealing with a round of water, which is never addicts. It looks like they're favorites and sponsors.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50318	Thank you. You were just talking about another problem here. We're getting HRT reports here, and in a few days we're going to discuss it, so there are elements that you're going to have to say there, not here. And we have another replica, the esteemed representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50319	Thank you very much. My replica to the presentation of counterpart Anticevic is going to the same spoken sentence as the replica of his counterpart Jurjevic. In fact, it has been said that violence, i.e. combating violence against young people, is a major political problem, and I am also afraid that this could remain hanging in the air and actually be misused. So, of course it's policy responsibility in this area, but what we're talking about here today is a lot wider, it's a social problem. And if, if we do not make that clear, this, in my opinion, will, extremely unacceptable, harmful and political behaviour of the government in relation to this interpretation that I read from the opinion given by the Government, and it says that it completely rejects the allegations of impelation, live and one serious story and a serious struggle will turn into a pure political, or political story. If the government didn't want to politicise with this problem, then it would accept facts and concrete allegations from this interpretation. She'd take the conclusions or at least sit down and talk about those conclusions. We need to make a deal, not like this. Something that has really not been sent to the agenda as a political or political story will turn into that. And that's why I don't agree with my colleagues that you're using the term that this is political, this is a social problem that requires consensus, which we can achieve in this assembly, but then we don't completely reject everything with the government's view, and you reject the fact that all the measures that have been taken, which is also stated in the interpretation, that no one denies it, do not give appropriate measures. They don't give the right results. And it is up to all of us to find better and more effective measures because not only unfair but inefficient society encourages violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50320	Time, thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50321	I agree with you colleagues when you say the government shouldn't, that's what I was talking about, running away from the problem. But the government forbids problems. To better shine, she forbids problems. Everything's nice in Croatia. That's why I wouldn't be surprised anymore, because it's HDZ, so we don't really have to be surprised anymore. Young people are abandoned, alone, and they've become dangerous. I agree with the fact that this problem doesn't need to be done, just because it's so serious, it's political. There's got to be one thing, oneness about this problem. And precisely because violence among young people is escalating, which they are copying what is happening. Because it has escalated the violence of every species, which is why it has become a political problem. And violence among women has not begun to be problematicd until it has been identified in Europe as a major political problem. It is the same now with violence between young and young.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50322	All right, you guys work out if it's a political problem, isn't it? Surely it's a less political problem, I agree it's a more social problem, but try to analyze each and every one of you, who's politicizing it. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Just a few more sentences to the debate that's being held. Explanatory or once again clear and loud what we are looking for as proposings, i.e. as a SDP club. With this interpretation, we asked that the Government measures, strategies, programmes and protocols, and that we already have all the examinations primarily in terms of their efficiency. How effective we are as a society, as a state, and how effective we are in doing what we have written. We are looking for, therefore, a review of existing programmes and strategies, we are looking for, is this really so much, unique and in the same way as implementing measures in all schools, in all pre-school institutions in the whole of Croatia. And we're looking for, fellow Shuica, and a multidisciplinary approach because he's not here today. When it comes to violence among young people, there is no such thing. After all, the other day was your meeting of the Council, which was from the Deputy Prime Minister through competent ministers, where it is said that for the first time, multidisciplinary teams will be gathered at educational seminars. The protocol on violence between children and young people, colleagues and colleagues is the 2004 protocol. It doesn't even list any relevant ministries that should be inside. It is said that education institutions, welfare centres and police administrations. And I ask where are the health care facilities? And I'm asking where the justice system is. Even, you don't have inside, it's said, under the old laws, we've in the meantime made a reform of social care, so we have family centers, we have welfare centres, and so on, so absolutely unadjusted, today, six years have passed since he was adopted, it has to be redefined. Or we have something that you may have redefine but protocol in acting as it is absolutely ineffective. Here, several times today, the Law on Protection against Family Violence was mentioned. Please, it is the Law on protection against domestic violence, does not talk about peer violence, we under domestic violence do not undermine peer violence and violence among young people, and therefore it does not say that those who do not report violence, whether from health institutions, or from educational institutions that sanctions are provided under this Act. It's not true, but for cases of domestic violence. And finally when we talk about violence among young people, and in this case as well as other types of violence when it comes to domestic violence, when it comes to sexual delinquents, etc., nobody here today mentioned anything else, which is that we don't really know how dark the number of undeclared violence is. We only talk about those types, those numbers that eventually broke out, where someone decided to apply, and we ask how dark it is for those abused, those who because of fear, because of ignorance, because of the lack of understanding of the environment, suffer various forms of violence and how well they are on their way to becoming violent themselves with the severe psychological consequences that they will bear all their lives. Research done not only by us, if you want relevant UNICEF-level research that we talked about when our country joined that program of schools with zero tolerance for violence speak between 25 and 65% of those who did not decide to report violence. So when we talk about how and how we implement strategies, whether it's enough to write something right, not thinking about whether it's being implemented together, then let's not just think about the known numbers of reported violence, but think about how dark that figure is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50324	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50325	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, but I must correct the two incorrect allegations of Ms. MPs when she claims there is no multidisciplinary approach and the next incorrect that an unadjusted protocol of conduct. On the contrary, because the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the resolute bodies of the Ministry of Education of Science and Sports, Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity through the judicial bodies has results in ensuring the conditions for every child to stay at school, in a home where they are also permanently staying in other places where children are temporarily or permanently staying free from any kind of violence, and also where the child will cultivate and develop his sense of self-esteem and self-esteem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50326	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate, there's 20 more of them. Dear colleague Branko Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Violence among young people is a serious social problem, which must also be addressed seriously in this problem, i.e. solving and trying to solve this problem, should all be unique. If we are talking about violence among young people, we cannot bypass the key question, and that is why the child starts acting violently at all. There is no simple answer to that question. There are qualities of family and child that affect the development of violent behavior, as well as the characteristics of schools that can encourage or prevent violence. For the healthy development of a child, family experience, lack of attention and warmth, witnessing violent behavior at home, insufficient supervision and parental care are a fruitful basis for the development of child abuse. Witnessing aggressive behavior involves physical and psychological aggression of parents toward a child, or physical and verbal aggression among parents. By using physical punishment, the parent sends a message to the child that it is okay to anger, violence, and intimidation to get what we want. A child is likely to use similar methods with his peers. Also, if it requires something, it sends him a message that such behavior succeeds when something is to be achieved. Especially important are the individual traits of the child himself that need not be ignored. In doing so, we can stress that children who are impulsive, lively, have excess energy, have no patience, who often find fast solutions to frustrating situations but also traumatized children are more susceptible to violent behavior, the environment experiences them with badness and can be attributed to bad behavior and the child starts to act accordingly. The school environment is very important for the appearance of violent behavior, lack of closeness, feelings of acceptance, all students, and mutual respect between teachers and students and vice versa lead to violent behavior at school. The failure to react with which we also meet teachers and professional associates to aggressive student behaviours and poor supervision in certain parts of the school such as the playground, halls only make it easier for violent students to be aggressive and intimidate other students. Any expert working in the field of child and family protection should certainly know and understand the causes of child and youth behavior disorders. The behavioral disorder of children and youths is, in fact, all those behaviors that sort of interfere with a child and a young man in regular operation. In the school environment, among peers and the like, such behaviors can be harmful and dangerous for the individual himself as well as for his environment. Given the increase in criminal offences among minors, the lack of professional staff in social care institutions is significant and too little for those already in treatment. So we're going back to the problems of the welfare system, the lack of professional workers. Only at the Sibenik Centre for Social Care for years, the centre has been performing jobs with a shortage of as many as 10 professionals. This is a major and frequent and long-term problem of the social care centre and certainly has the greatest impact on what the public enjoys as a lack of quality of work, however, it is an overload of professional workers. It should be noted that teenage years are the time when the outside world and the world of peers become the most important for young people. The family received what it could give them and turned to the outside world, to answer key questions that were most important to them at that age. And these are: who am I? What can I do and what can't? What's the world I live in? What are the rules of the game? They must reevaluate the image of themselves they created and received from their parents and establish their own identity. Therefore, teenagers are more than likely to go to another consecutive category sensitive to society and its values, as well as to the limits allowed and not allowed to exist. Priority problems in our society that do not stop violence, and in some segments it can be said that it is also encouraged, above all, that there is no communication at all levels. So there is no timely communication between family, school, welfare center. The second is the lack of experts, mainly specialists in working with violent children or abused children. Then neglecting the investigative approach in journalism, little attention in the media to the growing problems of pedophilia, the pornographic industry of minors, the parents of abusers versus sensational writing about violence that young people encourage. Then the fact that young people in most countries are at the edge of society and become exiles of life, people who are hard to hire and find their place in society. As well as forgetting that the analysis of violence is, in fact, the fight against social prejudices on young people, the overcrowding of schools as well as the extensiveness of the teaching programme, and lack of school pluralism. A ban on software content for under 18 years will not stop an increase in violence among young people, for I personally consider it not what the child sees but what attitude he has toward, or whether there is someone around him who will help him to form an attitude. If children don't have it, it's a parent problem, an education system problem. And finally, why are we no longer able to set limits to the permitted, acceptable and unacceptable and the strictly forbidden? Many would offer a very simple answer to that question. There's no social will to do anything better. As long as we are satisfied and praise what is existing and do not try to be better, the situation will be like this and perhaps even harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50328	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect quote and three replicas. First correction of an incorrect quote, the distinguished representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50329	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct your colleagues if you said it's not about what the child is looking at, it's what he has to say. I'm asking you how this child can have an attitude. It will form an attitude precisely based on what he looks at every day, especially if he has no influence on his family and he if I watch it every day, believe me that television will form his position, surely. And we have to watch how much they're after the TV and what they're watching.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50330	Thank you. And now we have three replicas. First is the esteemed representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50331	I have to look good at this correction. My colleague didn't say that, and I don't know where my colleague heard this. And when it comes to people and people who are supposed to work, I have to figure out one thing, I listened very carefully as much as possible. In this debate, I've never heard a question of domestic activity. Some will now look at me with a miracle, some will wonder how the police do it again. Unfortunately, finding friends from the Federal Republic of Germany have spent great money and great effort to educate our domestic workers about how to work in schools with young people to prevent violence among young people, especially stressing among young people, with what can be seen in this work and on the phenomena of domestic violence and the like. At Reilandfalz Baden Winterberg, police officers especially tend to do such work and educated with young people who, in a practical way, through play, through entertainment, through conversation, through dealing with them point to the appearances of petty violence that starts with a joke and ends in bloody consequences. These people don't show up in uniform, these people don't come with sticks or guns. If you saw them, you'd probably be pleasantly surprised. These are people of fifty-year-olds, but who wear both tails and earrings in their ears and who are acceptable by their approach to the younger generation. But they have experience, they have authority, they work in a service that deals with the consequences of youthful violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50332	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50333	Thank you very much. And I therefore think that this dimension should be taken into account in the further development of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50334	Thank you. Well, I have two things to tell you. First of all, you can't use your replica to address another representative who has nothing to do with the replica. That's the first thing. And the other thing, the M.O.P. program, and while I was doing it during the war, he had that part, he's got it today. Thank you very much. The second replica is the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50335	Thank you very much. Well, I think that colleague Crlenko as an expert, a graduate social worker, well warned further about some aspects of this minor violence. However, it seems to me that it would still be important to contextuise this violence and it is impossible to observe it outside the context of society. One of Margaret Mead’s leading anthropologists, while describing primitive societies, took two tribes of some Arabesche and Mundugumore who lived a few miles away from each other as two completely different societies. One of them was tolerated, calm, child-friendly, one was tolerated, calm, child-oriented, and the other were violent, intolerant, aggressive, etc. So there is no doubt that this sociological, cultural aspect in Croatia is problematic and there are no psychologists and there are no social workers and defectologists who can change this aspect. Just one brief example. The other day, an ugly violent scene on TV, I'm not accusing anyone. The prime minister's guard is taking the reporter down. That could have happened, maybe that reporter came from behind, professional behavior, etc. But there was no empathy. At that moment someone had to see, the woman was on the ground, on the floor knocked down by a man. I mean, that kind of scene, that kind of situation would have to happen to anyone who's public, who has the opportunity to publicly show up to be reactive in the right way. I'm not accusing either the Prime Minister or anyone but it's a situation that speaks of this broader social context that I want to speak more about when it comes to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50336	Thank you. The only thing you just said on TV wasn't seen, but you tried to describe it. And perhaps we here in the Assembly would agree with you to show less of this aggression and thus contribute to the calming of the whole situation. But the reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Brankica Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50337	Dear colleague, I would just like to add to your presentation one fact that a number of research is being done in the world that is trying to achieve the percentage of school violence. I have not been able to find any such research in Croatia, so I will read to you the data for certain countries that say that the percentage of school children who are victims of school violence is similar in most countries. In Australia, 17%, 19%, Japan 15%, Norway 15%, Spain 17%. Violence between children and young people usually occurs between 4th and 8th grade of primary school and what is common to everyone and I trust in Croatia 71% of teachers and teachers do nothing about bullying and intimidation at school. Aggressive behavior is learned very early and difficult to change. It is very dangerous and research shows if a child from eight years of age is showing violent behavior and until then nothing has been done that will adopt such behavior in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50338	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50339	Thank you very much. My colleague Crljenko, you spoke about the burden of the social work centre or the lack of social workers, and I would also tell you about a case about poor school cooperation and social work centres. In fact, I know a case where there are students whose families are actually under the control of the center. However, the school does not know anything about this, and it is also the case that school is asked to have an opinion on a student or about the relationship between the family and the students without essentially speaking of any problems that the student and his family face. Also, school colleagues say centre colleagues claim that such information is a business secret. However, I wonder who is actually being protected because cooperation and centres for social work and family centres and schools must be binding and structured, so only through systematic functioning can we help children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50340	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Brankica Crljenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50341	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are, of course, good and bad examples of cooperation in practice. I can speak from the aspect of the social care system, i.e. the center of social care in Sibenik, where I worked most of the time and can say that cooperation was excellent. Of course, there were some problems when the centre in the child’s interest addressed the school so that the child would be also stigmatized because of the lack of sensitivity of teachers in some cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50342	Thank you. And now it's time for the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, in discussions or in the rejection of our interpretation, we listened to the following, quote. My colleague said, "Nicely written to you by the government about what was done." and there were lists of procedures, laws, regulations, offices, strategies, presses, brochures, day markings, etc. It's as said as "can have the right to express an opinion". However, I agree we all have the right to express our opinions but we do not have the right to sit in places so responsible for education and education, in fact to grow up our children and close our eyes to problems or to see little. My colleagues and colleagues, the problem is overcomplicated. The biggest problem is system failure. And the state or government and all of us will be serious only when it ceases to expect a declaration of implementation of the programme to get results. Young people do not live in isolation in society, in a country where corruption is almost a daily topic in newspapers where we can read how much corruption costs taxpayers and precisely taxpayers are parents and the same children, who unfortunately are very often raised by streets, television, video games full of violence because these parents, these taxpayers, barely make ends meet. These children live in a country where very serious crimes are needed, unfortunately public persons, often public persons, and then the police are seriously involved in crime and show that they can be effective. In a country where laws are not implemented where young people are killed on roads or fighting alcoholized, where in shops they sell alcohol to under-age children, where judges are allowed to become obsolete, in a country where unfortunately most accused of corruption, the most focus is placed on doctors or teachers. Also, child violence is accused of violence most often in school while instruments of discipline are being taken away. Also, in schools where programs are printed, without pre-conditions being met for them, pedagogical standards are introduced which also cannot be met, the conditions of children have not invented violence, but if they look at it everywhere, if it is not sanctioned, then they accept it as normal and expected behavior. Our youngsters are merely a reflection of the dominant behaviors and values of the society in which we live. Given the situation, if we add to this all together another set of job losses that we witness every day, then we can expect a significant increase in violence. The judiciary has also been mentioned, it is mentioned that there is no verdict and, of course, the perpetrators continue. But what's the message? Violence is not sanctioned properly and what we can expect from our children. Also mentioned today is the protocol in schools. Schools have their own protocols in the event of violence among young people, which clearly explains the steps that must be taken to prevent the further spread of violence and to make violent people feel the consequences of their behavior, or to protect the victim. However, this is done formally and what is noted is unfortunately that school principals are more important to get as little information out as possible, i.e. to reduce the so-called. secondary damage by the reputation of the school, i.e. teaching staff or direct director. I apologize to those directors who are not in these examples. What happens to hiding violence? It reduces the importance of this act, so one who commits violence learns that there will be no consequences for his behavior, and the victim learns that she will not be protected and that her safety is not important. And it is the role of the school to correct parenting and to teach parents how to do the right thing in cases where his child is violent. We heard about prevention today, I'm just going to repeat that the prevention programs carried out through the school system are extremely poorly set, they're mostly formalized, they have no clear goal, they have no evaluation and they're very often carried out on paper, and in reality they're not there. Unfortunately, they're always in class reports and professional services, but it's really quite different. In fact, this prevention should go to 1st grade rather than from the first violent conduct, not when all are too many violent disciples. The student is not guilty, the student and his parents must at first receive a clear message that they are crossing the limit of unacceptable behavior and that this cannot and will not be tolerated. When we talk about preventive programmes then we talk about the perpetrator of the prevention of violence, of course they are professional associates. We also heard that there are shortages, but we suggest that we employ a logo to work with dyslexia and also social educators who are directly, whose competence is directly students with behavioral difficulties. However, when we talk about these programs very often and generally about children with problems, psychologists are constantly mentioned. No one mentions exactly those social educators, and if they happen to have them then unfortunately they're a cover for everyone. Also, if we remember, when we talked a few months ago about professional school associates, school librarians were put in. However, as far as I know, they are not engaged in any preventive activity of a type of workshop or anything else. But why did I mention social educators, which is why my colleague and colleague, which is a large number of higher-class students who are intruding. They're actually children who had the most common dyslexia in the lower classes. She's not recognized. So much for that education that is also mentioned today, the education of educators. Because teachers say we didn't learn that in college. It's not the teachers' fault, but it's our fault. Not mentioned today, but I would mention another problem, and these are subcultural groups through the prism of violence. These are groups that unfortunately produce both violence and fascism very often. And we wonder how in broad daylight someone gets beaten to death. There is a negligent and unconstitutional approach to such subcultural groups. This phenomenon is not even well valorized, and there we can apply that formula of a vicious circle, that is, like a general who always admits that war is lost. However, colleagues and colleagues, this war must not be lost. And finally, from what you've given us to refuse our interpretation, you've listed the quantity, but the effects are next. Violence among young people is on the rise, what is certainly evident in the practice that these forms of violence are becoming more brutal and crueler and that violence of this type already occurs at a younger age of 8, 9, 10 years. Violence was among the children, but what can be said is that these are increasingly brutal violence that unfortunately result in death. I see my time is up. We can conclude that we have a form without content. Today it was also heard that it was a social problem, but not a political one. However, colleagues and colleagues, no matter what they may be, the political or social issues remain too complex. You reject, and what else is pure politicizing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50344	Thank you very much. I apologize to Mrs Mirjana Ferić-Vac, Mrs Biljana Borzana and Mr Peter Selem for having to interrupt now because the session of the Presidency is scheduled at 13 o'clock, we are already a little late, so you will be able to say your replicas at 15 o'clock and Mrs Šimac-Bonačić responds to these replicas. And the first to participate in the debate will be Mrs. Sonja Simunovic, then Nadica Jelas, so at 3:00. Once again, I apologize for having to do so. I hope you don't lose the meaning of the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50345	My colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we continue the work of today's session. Three replicas have been reported for the presentation of the esteemed fellow Shimac. First, my colleague Mirjana Perić Vac. She's gone. The esteemed colleague Biljana Borzana has also applied for the replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50346	Thank you very much. So here's what you've been talking about, your colleagues, you've been talking about prevention since first grade. I would just repeat and highlight one part of our conclusion that I find extremely important, and that's the part about prevention already in kindergartens. So, in kindergartens, you can recognize certain pathological behaviors in children, a particular pathology that, indirectly, recognizes the pathology in the family according to how the child behaves, so I actually consider it one of the good parts of this conclusion exactly that part of prevention. Because we know that prevention is, in fact, at the end of the day when undermining is the cheapest and best for society because the parent whose child, for example, was injured, is certainly no consolation when he is told that the government's measures have reduced neither do I know minor delinquency by 4.27% or something like that. So it doesn't mean much to him if his kid got hurt. I'm sorry that this interpretation of ours will refuse, but I sincerely hope that the government and the ministry will still recognize some interesting things in it that they will be able to apply, even if it shows as something of their own, their own idea. Our satisfaction will be that things about juvenile delinquency will still improve for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50347	Thank you very much, colleague. Replica response, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50348	She's a colleague of Biljana's, you're right. The primary prevention should begin, the primary prevention of the delinquency of violent behavior or addiction of anything that is the problem of youth and children should actually begin with primary prevention, learning healthy lifestyles. Here's the direction, and by sticking to those instructions that we've given through impelation. Here we are in Dubrovnik as a local self-government called a college of directors, we formed a college of principals of elementary schools where we actually put together a thematic one, put together a thematic session of violence. But, of course, in that college, the principal of kindergartens in Dubrovnik is included in that very direction that you're now saying. Thus, in any case, the primary prevention goes from as early as possible that you can actually learn to adopt healthy lifestyles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50349	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Lecko's. He's gone. So there won't be any replicas. Next comes the debate of distinguished counterpart Sonja Simunovic. I haven't recorded any professors? She was. I'm sorry, I didn't see. Here you go. Here you go. Well, no, there you go. I've got witnesses that that's how it was, and it's mine to respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50350	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Among the many interesting ideas about prevention, which is the predecessor of a colleague who spoke and other predecessors who spoke very interesting ideas about prevention, so I'm surprised at just one thing, that no one mentioned the prevention through sport. Namely, it's me, that thing is a little out of the way of possible political struggles. But the fact is that sport is one of the most active and qualitative means of prevention. I'm the president of a water polo club and every night, when I come clear to the pool, I see 120 boys from 10 to 17 years old, limos, hopes, younger cadets, cadets, junior junior juniors swimming in that pool from 8 to 10:30. I guarantee you none of those boys are gonna be a bully on the road. It is also known that just boys who deal with martial arts, who are therefore trained in certain things are never violent, ever. It is not known that a boy who dealt with tae kwondo or something like that was a bully on the road. They get the sense of chivalry, the sense of chivalrous struggle, but no violence at all. But here's the water polo club I'm talking about. We're in terrible financial trouble. We're trying to hold that drive so these kids can be there. The city is under-tracking, we're struggling, the sponsor's gone. Therefore, I think that prevention should be a part of the means designed to prevent not only violence, but also drugs and other deviating behaviours, that it should absolutely focus on such sporting activities not clearly on those Cibons and Diname and Hajduka who receive hundreds of thousands of euros per month, but on such activities that can really significantly improve this situation. Because I repeat, I guarantee that none of my 120 boys who normally swim will be a bully.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50351	Thank you, colleague Selem. Replica response, distinguished colleague Šimac Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50352	Thank you very much. My colleague, I think you're right about this finding. I think we're all aware of how preventive sports actually seem, because I'm a sports advocate, I'm sure it advocates healthy lifestyles. So, of course, we can put all the activities in the sport through preventive programs. If we are not systematically built, or if we have a lack of financial resources, then at least through local self-government as we repeat through this interpretation, so I must point out that we have recently, in fact three days ago in Dubrovnik, promoted a strategy or concept of a children and youth programme where we have just had a great emphasis on sport. But also about sports here, I would also point out the media that should set such positive examples, not for the media to be full of sensational news of violence between young people and all that. And that's why we're going to be going to apostrophe and rewarding just the sports results. Because I repeat, and you're right, a fellow sport is simply advocating healthy lifestyles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50353	Thank you very much. And now she's a colleague of Simunović's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In previous discussions, we have heard a lot of statistics, various numbers, small and large, a series of names of some programs, measures and activities that have been adopted and implemented or not, and in fact in the real problem and the core of the problem we have heard or almost nothing. The spear is being broken about whether 125 or 155 psychologists are employed in secondary schools, whether the budgetary attitude relating to children and young people is removed from 27 or 24 million, all of which is actually so irrelevant and irrelevant because both numbers are far away, far from what is necessary and satisfying given the situation in which we have found ourselves. This interpretation is actually nothing but the end of a sad and long story. We are here discussing an increase in violence, delinquency and crime among young people. So that's already there, around us in full swing, and we need to find a way to contain it and put an end to it. But let's get back to the beginning of the story. What actually happened. The role of family is mentioned, the role of society is mentioned. It's right for both of us. As we all know, children are a mirror of the family they come from. Children’s behavior, either what is good or bad, adequate or inappropriate, is nothing but an extremely competent and highly professional response to relations that governs and within the family itself. It is the behavior of children that is very clear and precise about what patterns of behavior and atmosphere exist within his family. There is no more perfect and precise feedback than that. If we now raise these simple rules to a higher level, so we take the state and society as a family, and young as children of that family, then the picture becomes much clearer. Young people are nothing but the mirror of the society they live in. Youth behaviour is also a very clear and very competent response to the relations and values that we find in our society and country. Their behavior is an infallible and perfectly precise response to our behaviors, to our actions, to the values we offer and present to them. That's where the known physical rule applies. Every action causes a reaction. What reaction do we get from young people today? They fight, they abuse, they torture each other, they steal, they kill, other words they shout, you don't treat us well, you don't take care of us, it's not easy for us to help us, wake up we're the foundations of this country, and you don't experience us or care. There are no statistics, no action plans, no programmes, no decorations, no reports, and I don't know what not everything that can be more precise, clearer and simpler to picture the real state of things. There's no matter what you say about it. It's not easy to make a young, healthy person a delinquent and a bully. It takes a lot of work, effort, and time. A series of destructive elements should work through a long period of time to create a violent one. First, the family has to schedule, then all measures, institutions that are obliged to recognize and help such a risky family. Well, then, he has to schedule an education system, so a series of measures, programmes, action plans and institutions that are obliged to implement it all. Then he has to make an appointment for a government that doesn't recognize it all, and then the Parliament. And so we come to this interpretation that is somewhere near the end of this sad and unfortunate series of events. What are we looking for with this interpretation? We ask that the government see, understand and take responsibility. Taking responsibility is nothing but the first step in solving any problem, including this one. It is not our goal to look for the guilty, to liquefy, and to crucify, for none of these benefits, especially young ones. As a parent admits to himself that my child has problems, I will do everything to help him, so this government must admit to itself that we really have a problem and we will do everything to solve it, it is the first and only real step. There's no other way. The government's response to this interpretation is this: I quote the first sentence of the Government's report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia completely rejects the allegations from the interpretation, so you completely reject the allegations from the interpretation, it's as if the parent of a young bully says I completely reject allegations that my child has problems, but I have done everything I can to help him, but there really is no problem. Such a concept is originally doomed and leads nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50355	Thank you very much. It's next for the debate, distinguished colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals. She's gone. And there it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50356	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. A series of data that document the actual increase in violence among children and young people is listed in the SDP. The government has responded to that interpretation with an even greater number, and that huge amount of numbers per se is nothing but a certain amount of unclean conscience. That's why in my debate I'm not personally going to say a single number, because when it comes to violence, numbers are just one insensitive and one relative illustration of the consequences, and I think that in this case we should talk about the causes. Parents have always feared for their children, but never for such a reason as today. Today it is a lasting fear that a mere walk along the street, or a night out, will become a death sentence, not a moment of happiness or a beautiful memory. Not to mention the walk in a park that some weird guys, which pops out of the dark with knives and boxers, took away every charm of relaxation and harmlessness. What happened to us colleagues and colleagues, why did it happen to us to a world where brutal thugs painted from the famous Kubrick's "Hell Orange" beat up good kids? Who's to blame? The perverse capitalism, the Homeland War, violent movies, the general lack of empathy, a society that's locked in itself, selfishness, all of it together, it's hard to actually find a single answer, but one thing that's for sure is the system and society fell on children. And the most difficult consequences of the capital of the relationship, and even these recent economic crises, are not the economic ones, but the ones we see on our children, from the preschool age to the ones who become our colleagues at work. The world of upside-down values is compatible with both misbehaving and being even more concrete today to raise a decent young person means raising a loser or as young people say losers, because today it is most important to be powerful, powerful in any way, so the attack on an innocent victim from pure peace to young people is actually often the only form of demonstration of power available. As parents, we taught our children to be safe and to behave well, but that they will be punished if they behave badly, but our system is daily denied by attackers. And that's where I'd actually like to point out a phenomenon that's getting more and more massive, because the systems for punishing the guilty are too slow, and the cases have been dragging so long that actually justice when it's achieved and it's getting pointless. It's about the father's victims beating the attacker to death on their child. So parents are increasingly taking on the role of police officers, the resident and the judge. And I'm asking myself, is it normal for cops to congratulate the fathers who, in that way, reacted and returned the favor of a dear attacker to their child because the cops couldn't do anything because their hands were tied? Facing the fact that a child from pure peace was attacked and beaten or killed and the attackers went unpunished is probably the hardest time for each parent. And the first urge that a parent feels at such a time is to get revenge. To show and prove to his child primarily that he can be protected. And it is every one of us's duty to protect him by all means except violence. I stress, except for the violence. As terrible as it may be to see injustices in the system, attackers who walk freely and smile at us and seek new victims again. Because violence always generates violence. We can and must only be aggressive in seeking our rights, in demanding that those who do not do their job be punished, starting with parents of attackers through social workers, psychologists and educators to police and judges. On the other hand, in this debate, I want to highlight the importance of family and family education. Of course, the Social Democrats are quite sidetracking whether it is a traditional family or whether it is a single - parent or someone else. It is brought up by living with children, by providing children with the opportunity to see their parents daily in all possible situations of life. To see their reactions and their behavior. Unfortunately, children today hardly ever see their parents because they lost them in daily survival struggles and were stimulated by computers, cell phones, but unfortunately both alcohol and drugs. So, there's less and less education in the family. The raise took over in a better case, the institutions took over, and in that worse case, unfortunately, the street. The current economic crisis has only further disrupted family relations. People get used to one level of standards that provides a certain level of family harmony now lose their jobs, seek new jobs, work at the same time 3 jobs, get no salary. Live and work for a certain time, no perspective, live for today. The goals are short-term. There are no goals at all. Within the four walls there are daily dramas. Improperty fighting, debt fighting. Every four Croatian marriages are falling apart. And more would fall apart, but individual parents, or spouses, cannot repay loans. And it is a sad fact that the greatest number of married couples today hold not dear love together but debts on loans. And the children are silent witnesses to fights, violence, left to themselves. The house is everything but what it's supposed to be, and we know what it's supposed to be. It should be home, the safest and hottest place in the world. That's why I'm going to say this, the Law on the ban on the sale of alcohol to young people, the Law on the ban on night outs, the Law on the ban on the visit to bookshops and casinos, are not the laws that will solve the problem of violence between children and young people. The bans never proved to be an effective means of solving the problem. They, in particular, do not fall in young people, who do not suffer any visions or disciplines, or limitations. However, bans give birth to new frustrations and are the source of new violence. My colleagues and colleagues, the Labour Act, the Law on Trade, as well as the Law on Harach and VAT, are the legal regulations which determines to the greatest extent the relations within the family because it directly determines how much time parents will spend with children and what the material status of the family will be. The more time a parent will have for his children, of course, provided that the family has and arranged material status, the less reason and less space for violence among young people. We will all be less afraid of the future, or of what the future brings us. So our relationship with young people today determines our future. Because young people return exactly what we give them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50357	Thank you very much. We've got two reports. One rectification of the quote and one replica. First of all, the correction of the quote, the esteemed colleague Dubravka Shuica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50358	So here I would correct the incorrect assumption that the relationship with young people is not expressed through laws such as the Law on measures to limit the use of tobacco products, the Law on Trade, the Labour Act. That's still not true. No matter how different our relationship with young people may be, but without legal regulation, it would all be a great anarchy. I hope you don't want it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50359	Thank you. And a replica, a distinguished colleague of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50360	Thank you very much. Your colleagues said it was the family, or parents, who are the first and most important link in raising our children. That's right. I think all of us parents are aware. From these presentations today, we can see that there are parents who are very responsible, but very often parents are in fear because of all that is happening and they feel powerless. Such parents need help. On the other hand, we also have examples of irresponsible parents. We read through presses, night outs, drunk conditions, minors driving cars, hidden accidents, they're irresponsible parents. Even to the extent that when that happens, they look for a variety of connections at the Social Labour Center to reduce the damage. It's, I repeat, irresponsible parents. However, such irresponsible parents should also be helped. There is legislation, we can't say it doesn't exist and we can't say it shouldn't. Yes, you should. However, both the family law and the centres for family and social work centres, which I was saying today in today's discussion, I think that it should be synchronised and connected to this and thus help both responsible and irresponsible parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50361	Thank you very much. The Honorable colleagues of Biljana Borzan have also applied for the debate. Here you go, Comrade Borzan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50362	Thank you very much. So here's to start with, I'd like to say that I'm back in the 10 years that I'm a city councilwoman in Osijek, I'm following statistics, that is, security reports in the city that look at all forms of crime and over all those years, looking quarterlyly or over the years, the percentages change by 0.5 plus minus 1 minus, 2 to 3%, and what actually brought me together by looking at the data, when compared to juvenile delinquency between 2008 compared to 2007, we have such numbers that really cost a man his mind. 19.5% higher crime rate against life and body, illicit weapons possession more than 16.7%, alcohol consumption from 13% to 39%. So, the data that's quite alarming, but here in response here the government to our impelation we've received data that's significant and dropping, but what I just said to a colleague in the replica is a small comfort when a criminal store happens. Homes for juvenile delinquents are overbooked, waiting for them for months like an elite hotel, and when children are housed. What's going on? I'll remind you of an affair that Osijek has been shaking for about a year, so the stories of prostitution in a home for children who are said to have nothing. On the one hand, you don't know if it's worse if it's happened or if there's one of the political powers who can cover up this case as it's been talking through the media for a long time, so a very worrying thing hanging in the air. So, it's a terrible thought that a child who's already coming to his home because of some delinquency is waiting for him to have some sort of organized network of juvenile prostitution, terrible. But there were some inspections that said everything was fine, and on the other hand the principal to resign without an explanation, so it was all extremely suspicious and strange and sad. The decision to ban new employment by the government is in fact unselective. It, of course, defends the employment of anyone, so they are in the same situation as administrative staff who, if no one is employed, will not be missed as well as professional workers who are absolutely necessary and who can certainly help to make these cases as little as possible. Clearly, it is not believed to the directors who are politically similar to those functions that they will determine this professional associate I need, and I do not need an administrative employee but are employed in such a way by grandparents and uncles, so of course the government at one point concludes that no one should be employed and this brings very bad consequences to children who are already so unhappy. We talked a lot about prevention today, and in my opinion, the key to everything, and it's important that this conclusion of ours gives an emphasis on prevention because it just kind of always turns out, I'm going to repeat it by not knowing which time in these important things we have a situation that the government is setting in a way better to treat than to prevent, rather than vice versa to that printer principle rather than to prevent it rather than treat it. The government's reply to implement a series of measures as it is said in the response to how sufficient the speeches and statistics themselves are and what I have already said to my parents is a weak comfort. The magic of the social order that we've been in since the 90th, I don't know how to call it what can't be said is capitalism because on some elements it looks more like a slave system, actually brings many challenges to which society obviously doesn't have an answer. Parents work from morning till tomorrow, eight hours of working hours that used to be a normal thing today becomes some exotic thing, so when someone says I work eight hours, it's like some special convenience, instead of being some normal thing. Then can we expect from a parent who works from morning till evening fighting for the existence of his family that he will notice the first signs that something about a child doesn't seem to be right, let's say it escaped from the last class at school or something like that? I also talked about the fact that already in kindergartens, although I use the opportunity, my colleague Šimac Bonačić said something in response to my replica not only those who are important because we have small children who don't go to kindergartens, so again, some primary health care doctors and psychologists who will be prevented from being recognized at such a small age that parents have a completely wrong way of thinking, raising or not caring for their child. Someone here today mentioned a father who took matters into his own hands and went to deal with the guy who beat up his son. Of course I'm not for behavior in the way eye for an eye, tooth for tooth, but the man realized that if he spoke to the institutions that it would take a very long time and that no concrete shift might be, or it would be too late, by then his son might suffer who knows how many times. So I would actually say something for the end of my debate that, quote that father because I think that, in fact, of all our discussions, it is one summary of what is happening in Croatia and how an average citizen of Croatia is experiencing the system and how the system works. And that father said: "I didn't fight for this country, Croatia where police beat up protesters, and defend those who robbed the state, Croatia where 19-year-olds buy factories, and workers have to strike hunger to work. The system of values is upside down, I'm sorry, but I can't just sit back and watch everything go to hell and get over my child's back. Police officers congratulate me on what I did because in such cases they are powerless. Is this normal’? I think that this is a hypothetical question, or rhetorical question that does not require an answer, it is clear that things are bad and once again I call on the government's representatives to respect our conclusions in the interpretation, they can now, or they will refuse, as it has already been said, but to respect these conclusions and to install them in some of their strategies and plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50363	Thank you very much. First of all, we have a correction to the quote, dear colleague Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, this debate of yours is a colleague of yours, indeed... as far as parents are concerned, it's absolutely not optimistic but pessimistic. Correcting the quote... statistics is a weak comfort to parents because they work from morning till evening. So as that parent who's listening to you now, you're a doctor, you're also working from morning till tomorrow, I can imagine whether you're watching your child, controlling, or knowing where he is or being a parent in a terrible depression because you can't do anything. Secondly, it's really comforting when something falls. And what falls and what grows? You're talking about 65% increase in violence in your interpretation, and then you're surprised when a serious physical injury in 2009 falls, etc. So the data that is optimistic is unlike yours. And this third one. The government's always doing the job. So if you've read the government report, then you really see that there's no hiring at all, that there are 4000 and 5 professional associates in kindergartens, that there's a visible increase of professional associates and senior medical centres all over 2007 on the eighth, eighth to the ninth and ninth to the tenth not to tell you about this data. So, absolutely speaking in mind and without argument. What's your argument if you keep saying weak comfort?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50365	Thank you, colleague Caparin. On behalf of the government, state secrets, Stjepan Adanic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I need to react to a few of your moves you've given here. We are talking about the government's interpretation of the government's work on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in preventing and combating growing violence. So that's where you add delinquency, crime and risky behavior between children and young people. We have provided you with facts, documents, expert facts and documents from resolution ministries that are accurate and professional. And when you saw that these statistics were different from the data that you thought might be, then you don't talk about facts and documents anymore, then you don't use the truth, but you simply want to turn this discussion to a whole other level and another level that it simply doesn't deserve. I must also say that I am pleased to discuss this issue in this House, but please discuss it nicely with the basis of the facts of the documents. And I'm not happy when some don't accept facts and documents, because that would mean the same thing when some philosophers asked when he said things that don't match the documents and facts, then he said the team up by the facts. Well, I guess they won't be in this house a team up by facts and documents. That would be nakaradic. And when we speak that language and that language, then I must also say that every serious state is doing laws, strategies, protocols that we have very much of these strategies and protocols and that are all being implemented. We have in the last 5, 6 years made up so many protocols and strategies of systematic and thought-out and results. I'll tell you here I've been watching your period for four years. You've tried something here. For example, the National Youth Action Programme. You've made 100 and some measurements there. These measures were all a wish list, until we had to take this list of wishes seriously with the operational plan in such a way that we gave these wishes financial pain, so we in the sixth, seventh and eighth years meant for the needs of young people that we gave this Government of the Republic of Croatia more than 3 billion kuna. We have also created a new National Youth Programme from 2009 to 2013 where we have said who will be the bearers, who will be co-partners and what financial resources must be there in order to achieve this programme. And you in your program, unfortunately, didn't see that coming. It was a wish list. Also, Mrs. Assembly MP Opacic told our minister when she had the opening statement, if you believe what you're saying. Look, Mrs. Opacic, if we didn't believe what we're saying, then we wouldn't probably be here. That's what you said be careful. ... Unfortunately, that's the way it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I also have to tell you, etc. You, upon coming to power, raised your hand to split the birth benefits, abolish the three-year maternity leave, which is why 60 thousand children, young children, are the same people whose mothers had to return to work in the middle of the year. The remaining children were 60,000 practically unsettled. What do you think these kids don't have trauma and that's why? They are now children who are eight, nine, ten, eleven years old. So when we talk about documents and facts, then we have to deal with documents and facts, not with a political language that simply doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50367	We have two credentials. A colleague of Simunović's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50368	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said the following. We have a lot of strategies, protocols, action plans that are being implemented. That's true. You have a lot, we have a lot of all the declarations, plans, programs that aren't implemented, which are dead letters on paper. Is it our daily life, our reality, which is lead and heavy in which violence escalates from day to day? So we appreciate and accept your statistics and your lists of programs and action plans, but they don't hold water. And that's why we put up with this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50369	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the motionary, dear colleague Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50370	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the promoter, I have to say a few things after the State Secretary comes forward that I have to admit every time he comes forward with very few arguments but with a lot of passion, because he obviously doesn't think anything can be said against the government. Well, every time something critical is said that a certain ministry hasn't done anything, then it's kind of hearty on the back of its feet. However, you will have to learn, Mr. Secretary of State, that there is talk in Parliament and that we in Parliament are going to talk about things that are badly done in the country and that we think there are better solutions, but we just need to move a little bit. When you were talking about us here today not talking about facts and arguments, the moment you gave us other information, I must say that, first of all, it's a shame that we of certain ministries cannot get relevant information, because real numbers and real data are hidden from parliamentary deputies. We get everything in a variety of different ways from the representation issues primarily in which in at least a month we answer to get certain data, so given the fact that we are hiding real data, it can naturally happen that we have either some outdated data or maybe some wrong data. However, the debate with numbers I haven't used any of the numbers here because I don't think it's the measure of this debate, is actually an indication that we don't want to talk about the real situation and that we don't want to talk about the real problem. So we here can get on whether a number like this or not, but no one in this country will benefit, nor will the children feel safer, nor will parents feel safer when the kids go out over the weekend so they don't know if they'll come back in a coffin or come back alive and healthy. Just you gentlemen turn your eyes on what I'm saying. But look also at what she or she did to the government, it's the same thing as your mechanism when you don't have answers to the current problems then you refer to what was in the past. This will also not lead to a solution to the problem. I was talking here about people who were killed on Croatian streets during your term of office in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, I was talking about it. If the secretary of state will tell me that people who have lost their lives on the Croatian streets by Luke Marinc, Fran Desplic, Davor Sablić, Luke Ritz, William Šlipetar, Nika Dekovic, Josip Klasnic, Vitomir Jovičić Simke, Marin Opaček, Boris Čižmešija, Igor Mijic, Aleksandr Abramov. If you say that these are not facts, that this is politics, then let it be politics. Finally, to every one of the things Mr. Secretary of State said here, I could answer with some current stories, so it would be good, for example, if Mr. Secretary of State answered the same question, which is why, for example, by conducting a state policy, he took away a woman carrying two children, so he carried twins, he took away her right not to compensate for her sick leave. Is that a policy where we protect women, is that a policy where we protect children? You have to answer those questions, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50371	Thank you. We have three applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Željana Podruga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50372	Thank you. Here is a series of incorrect allegations I will concentrate on what is very concrete so that they will not tell me that I am involved in politics because I believe that violence between young people and the current situation on this issue is not a day-to-day political issue. I'm just going to say that I can't agree with the quote that Mrs. Opačić said on behalf of the SDP club that the figures don't matter and that she won't talk about the figures, but then otherwise, Mrs. Opačić, I don't know why you've put this debate in the form of an interpretation today. The SDP Club has proposed with the signing of the MPs that it is an interpretation because, as I have already told you in one of my corrections, I have found at least a correction of the competent state institutions to the wrong allegations of interpretation and to the wrong allegations of exposure on behalf of the SDP Proposer Club. Otherwise, if you don't think you should have suggested an interpretation, I can only comment on it and say that you have proposed an ideological interpretation and I hope that's not the case because, as I said, violence is not a daily political issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50373	Thank you. The next correction was applied for by a distinguished colleague, Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50374	I want to correct the two allegations of Mrs. Opacic. First, she said the shame that the ministry couldn't get the data and that the ministries were hiding the data. I claim that's not true. If you'd like to present it correctly, which of the ministries didn't want to give you the right information. Secondly, you said the secretary of state said that these accidents that have occurred in Croatia lately are not facts. That's what the secretary of state just didn't say. He has just explained that there is a whole series of protocols, strategies, laws that regulate this area by trying to reduce the violence that neither of us believe closes our eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50375	Thank you. Next application for a correction of the alleged distinguished colleague Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Opačić, I will correct these allegations that my colleagues have also pointed out, which is that you said that the secretary of state did not care that the young people died in the streets. No, he didn't say it, but you listed names in your statement. Comrade Opačić, you've listed a whole series of names. If it were my child, I would very much resent you, and as a representative, I resent the emphasis of these very names in the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, it's about young people who are hurt. Also, you said you didn't have any data available. Click on any program, any website of the ministry will open up all the data on both action plans and strategy, and legal provisions. So we all have that information. The only thing I really agree with is your colleague Marinovic said in the morning debate that this issue is political. She said it. We don't consider a debate about political violence but something that has to concern us all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50377	Thank you, colleague. Followed by a further discussion by esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50378	Thank you very much. What's happening in the Parliament today is actually a whole series of paradoxes. The first paradox is how the government reacts to this interpretation. Why does the government refuse this interpretation? What's the paradox? So is there violence in Croatia? There is. We testify to him every day. Every day we can almost read in the newspaper, watch TV that one of the minors was killed by his peers. And now there's a party of SDPs who's proposing an interpretation in which no one's shift is sought but wants to encourage the government to do something together as a society to make this violence less. The government, for completely unknown reasons, at least to me strangers and incomprehensible reasons, refuses. What is Parliament's relationship to this problem? As we have seen, all clubs except the HDZ Club support this interpretation, they realize that this is a social problem that must be solved except for the HDZ Club. The HDZ club in all these replicas, the corrections of incorrect allegations, claims that everything is fine, they are satisfied with the situation, they are very well at being beaten and killed by minors. That's how they like it. And they don't see any problem. Since this topic has nothing to do with Podravka, we haven't been able to figure out what the position of the HSS club is because they don't care. Says State Secretary Government's done a lot, the government passed the law, the government passed the protocol. Secretary of State, when you've finished this private conversation of yours, then I'll tell you to go to the Luke Ritz family, go to Alexander Abram's family and read them the protocols. They'll see you very well. They'll see you very well. Go and read the protocols and boast about the families of the victims. Because you, as an exceptional credit to the government as a brilliant solution, are coming here for a parliamentary pay phone and yelling at parliamentary deputies and you claim the government has adopted a protocol. We have in 2009. 870 crimes with elements of violence among minors. So let me know if there's a protocol in the 870s. Well, look, if it's applied then that protocol is not good because it hasn't produced results, and if it hasn't been applied then someone has to answer why it hasn't been applied and it's very good. We're looking for answers to those questions. As these measures are implemented, what are the effects, what are the effects, how much our protocols help to reduce this violence among minors. We regret to conclude with concern that all of this, that these protocols are not enough and that more should be done. And I can't be surprised to you now when you tell me I don't need to do this anymore, I don't need this rejection, it's all expensive politicization and unnecessary. This is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The paradox, therefore, is that the government claims to be doing something or doing a lot, and the problem is there, the problem remains. Just because the incident on your record is down 2%, that means we've solved the problem and we don't need to work on it. And not in all segments of the incident, it has been increased in some respects. The third paradox is that we're actually talking about victims here. The victim was definitely the one who was attacked, beaten, humiliated, and the victim was the one who beat him up. He's a victim of society, he's a victim of poor education, he's a victim of social neglect because when it comes to violence among minors, among people who aren't even responsible, who haven't developed enough, who may not be aware of their actions then and about these thugs we can talk about as victims. Penal policy will not do much, more can be done in prevention. This is where we come to the fourth paradox, although the whole profession agrees with the fact that prevention in the prevention of juvenile violence is the most important government in the budget to reduce the 11 million kuna precisely for the purpose of prevention. I guess because experts think that prevention is good, so the government is following experts when experts say prevention is the best, and you reduce $11 million for prevention. The fifth paradox. What is required by this interpretation? Is it the Prime Minister's shift? No. Is there a government resignation to be sought, no? Is your resignation as Secretary of State wanted? I don't either. A united report on the number and type of criminal offences committed by minors is requested. What else is required? A report on the implementation of a programme of activities to prevent violence among young people is requested. What's the third one to look for? That the government proposes concrete and comprehensive measures to combat and prevent juvenile crime and delinquency. And what the fourth demand is for the government to propose concrete measures to combat violence among youth in society. No one's head, no one's shift, and no one's responsibility is yours, Secretary of State. Reports and enhanced measures are required. But no, it bothers the government. What do these names mean now that Opacic here has read when it comes to the government to deliver three reports to this assembly? Let them die so many more, that's your relationship to that problem. And with your relationship, you get applause from the HDZ Club. You should be ashamed of these applauses and ask them not to clap when you treat such cynicism with children who died on the road in juvenile violence. Because that cynicism, when we talk about this problem, and that's social problems, that's the whole of society's problem, that cynicism is inadmissible. And when the SDP club and the clubs of all other parties except HDZ, other than your club, gives you a hand to do something together, then you refuse to do it. But you refuse, my dear secretary of state, and the family of Abramov and the family of Ritz and all those families whose children died on the road in juvenile violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50379	First of all, we have two reports of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The first is Honored colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 214 has been injured, which clearly states that the representative is being warned if he demeans or insults the chairman or other MPs. Coli Stazić is in his speech, although it is not the first time, but he has now greatly offended us with his statements that we actually support violence, that we in HDZ will not support this proposal because we are comfortable with the violence that is happening on the streets in Croatia. A colleague, that statement is not only offensive but embarrassing and truly deserves every conviction. First of all, he deserves a warning in this Croatian Assembly. That's the way you can't talk about us. If you have such hidden thoughts, if you think so, then you can say it somewhere else outside the assembly, but in the assembly, don't insult us HDZ deputies. Therefore, if we do not accept your proposal, in no way does it mean that we support violence, and such words are simply inappropriate for this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50381	Thank you. In addition, a colleague, Goran Maric, applied for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50382	I refer to article 214 for the insult I personally experienced, and for the speech of insufferableness and hatred. Namely, I will teach my children to love their neighbor, and to avoid the path of the wicked, that they never walk in these paths. And I'm holding those foreign exchanges personally. I say we love our neighbor, we love a man, and you promote the idea, don't spare your neighbor, please stop speaking that way in the congregation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50383	Thank you. Then we have two applications for correction of the quote, first of all colleagues Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50384	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct only one quote from fellow Stazic, which is that the HSS Club is uninterested in this topic. I heard her say that on behalf of the Proposer Mrs. Opacic. However, I will inform all of you who do not know that all of us from the club were at a memorial for the late Croatian Vice President, Mr. Stjepan Radić, and therefore we are very interested but we were not able to manifest ourselves on behalf of the Club. And only the presence of both the party president and the vice president of the parliament and myself as a representative speaks of our being very interested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50385	And the correction of the alleged esteemed colleague Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm extremely sorry. A colleague said HDZ went out because it supports violence against children, killing children. We don't allow it to be something scary. We're going out because we don't want to hear your hate speech and intolerance in this Croatian Parliament. What you're saying today is pure politics, and your proposer exhibitor says, even the exhibitor says he's watching that your kids don't come out and come back in a coffin. I think those times are over.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50387	And now we have five reports of replicas. First of all, colleague Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50388	Well, I would like first of all to say that there really is a whole series of strategies and protocols adopted by this Croatian Parliament, or the Government. And now I'm going to tell you how these strategies are implemented. One of the biggest sources of violence among young people is inadequate school spaces, making it impossible for children to stay in the living room but only being the part of the clock that they are and then practically have to go out on the street, go home or be in some place, stay until their parents return. Well, this Croatian Parliament has adopted a national pedagogical standard a year and a half ago since then, here we are looking for agreement to build a school to turn a three-way course into a one-way course. Unfortunately, for 19 months, we cannot get the consent of the Ministry of Education on an idea project of the school which was designed according to the national teaching standard adopted here in the Croatian Parliament. Here's an example of another, very many children in our county traveling by buses to high school because they need 30, 40 kilometers from their place of residence to school. In Koprivnica, there is a railway terminal that has been failing for more than 15 years. At a historic session held in Koprivnica on 20 June 2006, the government decided to give the finalisation to the town of Koprivnica to arrange the town of Koprivnica in a student home, so that students could be in that home and not spend the whole day on the bus. For three years, nearly four have already passed since the government's decision was made, and when the government's decision was not implemented, and instead of being a student, the dormitory is today a gathering place for a small number of young people who use it to drink or possibly smoke a joint or something else. This is how government strategies are implemented. And finally, this is completely incorrect what was said. You couldn't offend HDZ representatives here in the assembly, because when you spoke to HDZ deputies in the assembly you weren't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50389	Let's calm down, we can all get in line, say what we're thinking. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50390	You tell your colleague Mršić that you did not get the consent of the Ministry of Education so that you could arrange a full-time stay for children. You're saying the government didn't keep their promise around the dorm room so the kids would have some space they'd be in, not to be on the street. Why would the Government give it to you when the government has adopted so many strategies, so many programs and so many protocols and when it is convinced that these strategies, these programmes and these protocols are quite enough to prevent violence among young people. The government is thus acting completely condescendingly. Consistently and by not giving you the consent of the Ministry of Education it shows one consistency, and that consistency consists in that it is irrelevant what concrete measures you will take, that the most important thing is that you have adopted a strategy and protocol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50391	Next, an esteemed colleague, Borzan, signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50392	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazić spoke about the fact that this Interpletion was not engaged in some form of calling for resignations and similar to what a Priory might create one resistance, we just wanted to talk about something that we consider a big problem and before we should close our eyes. But I'm asking myself and you and all together had a chance to even get to the ears of both a colleague on the other side of the assembly and a representative of the government. I'm afraid not, because they simply don't understand what it means to be a weak comfort to a mother whose child gets hurt on the street, not to be dead, but to "just" get beat, that the small comfort is that the percentage is down 4.1% and that it is actually the secretary of state that he thinks that he scored by speaking in a scary way for the speaker to the MPs. Here, I was hoping there would be some kind of hearing, but unfortunately whatever comes from this side of the assembly somehow turns out that no one here has any experience or knowledge to help make things better.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50393	Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50394	Well, fellow Members, you had hoped for nothing that it would come into the government's ears and that it would be received as well-meaningly as it was sent. The government does not care as much as in a number of other examples. The citizens of this government are not interested. It was shown by the government and its tax policy. It showed a number of other examples. It also shows by its relationship to this interpretation. What an insult they have done to families who have been killed, families who have been beaten, and families who will still suffer because it is difficult for the Government to submit the three reports we are looking for and propose two concrete measures because they are not allowed to do so because they have no other reason not to accept this interpretation. I said we're not looking for anyone's shift or looking for one. But after this kind of relationship with the government, the shift should be sought.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50395	Next up comes the replica of my colleague Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50396	Thank you very much. You were talking about paradoxical situations a little while ago. In fact, children are born pure. They certainly didn't invent violence. They grow, learn, but learn by their values. Society shapes them. Unfortunately, they often see violence. Violence is not sanctioned, and that is why children in their growth accept it as expected behavior. The result is a natural increase in violence. On the other hand, we have preventive programs. In schools, we rely on professional associates. Unfortunately, experts say if the ministry determines each case, each college needs to be taught by teachers why professional associates literally force us to invent preventive programs themselves. On the other hand, it is said that schools should not be polygons of various programmes, and then which programmes should be implemented. However, this is based on professional associates, and we have a lack of professional school associates. These are paradoxical situations of fellow Stazic. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50397	Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50398	About the relationship of children, especially those children who resort to this violence, we heard in the opening words of Mrs. Opačić. They resonate like this. The punishment will be small or the punishment won't be, so I can do what I want, so I can beat someone up, so if someone's here killing someone, it doesn't matter that much. It's their relationship. What kind of message does the government send them by refusing this interpretation? He supports them in that attitude. And you don't have to be surprised at your HDZ colleagues when I accuse you of supporting violence by refusing this interpretation. And I am not saying this as a representative or a member of the opposition club because of the fact that the matter would be politicised, but because, unfortunately, these young heirs have such an irresponsible attitude towards the act they have done and because when they hear of our position they will be able to conclude only one thing – that they are right, that in such a position they are supported and that the Government who will not even argue about it because it is not and it is considered unnecessary and that these protocols despite which they have become violent on the road are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50399	A colleague named Milanka Opačić applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50400	Well, you've been telling my colleague Stazic that this interpretation of ours didn't go for us to look for anyone's shift and the fact is it's not our interest. Our interest was actually to talk about this problem, to say that in a situation where children suffer violence either at school or outside school that the system is actually inefficient and that the system is not the one that will protect them. Unfortunately, there was also a story here about how some parents take matters into their own hands and deal with little thugs. It always happens when the system fails, when the system is ineffective. You've also talked about the names of children who've been killed in the past two years. The fact that I've brought these names here not to offend anyone, but to try to get the whole debate serious, because it's really about living people, children who have never been guilty or due in the past two years. I talked about their names the more that some of these children's names were taken and the rewards they gave if I wasn't wrong for good and positive behaviour by the Ministry of Science and Education, but a good part of these parents was socially engaged because they wanted to raise their voice against violence. When their children have already suffered efforts, then somehow with their own engagement they try to change something in society that really more if it is possible for any child in this way does not suffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50401	Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50402	It's clear your parents are desperate. They're desperate. Some of them resort only to help, some of them go out and deal with the child abusers who attacked their children. I just don't know how they feel if they're following this debate. It must be hard for them to hear what their government's position is on their problem and what HDZ's attitude towards their problem is. I only hope that your colleagues Opačić will organize these parents, those children who were killed, that they will gather together and tell the government what they think of her.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50403	And the final application of the replica, distinguished colleague Ruzica Simunovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stazic, someone on the right said that this interpretation is a daily political demagogue interpretation. Imagine the labels. They also said that the government and the ruling majority in the Parliament are very aware and very concerned and that they are doing everything to solve this problem of growing violence among young people, and then I'm thinking something, so I remember that we sent the text on the rise of violence among young people to the Parliament about a year ago, and that text never came to the agenda until we transformed it into an interpretation, simply for the reason that we talked about it anyway. It means as much as the ruling, the ruling majority are even willing to talk about this problem, let alone approach its resolution, and this whole debate as it started today comes down to the principle of we forest those roadsides and we cannot meet and make some constructive conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50405	The honorable secretary of state, Diana Vican, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50406	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen and Madam Representatives. Several times mentioning the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and I have had the extraordinary honor to participate in the answers to this impeling download... fog right on the questions that have been asked, and now I'm actually going to say it out loud. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, when I got that interpretation, then I was happy that we could finally, with all the ministries, give the verbs a clear explanation of the activities that we've done, also the self-valuation and evaluation done, and the same goals that we're going to make. I came here today where I'm kind of being forced to agree that violence is unacceptable, that I have to agree that we have risky families that have become this for a variety of reasons, that there is no saving when it comes to children and that the purpose of the interpretation is to spread the problems of violence from not even social, but rather to a socially marginal context to a political level. On the other hand, when I took off... The fog very clear data here is used on one side by the cognitive level of the story, the other by the effect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I congratulate all those who have teamed up at a willing level to do something. In fact, the problem of violence between children and young people is not a problem that can be seen through two dioptria, that some are shortsighted, that others are far-sighted, that one is served with facts and statistics, while others today point to an effective and experienced level. 65 thousand teachers and teachers are dedicated to the very sacrificial raising of children and young people today as we sit in this hall and that education for co-operation, for creation, for entrepreneurship, for friendship, for tolerance, and all this means for non-violence together. All research has shown science and expertise to advance the society that invests in proactive programmes, violence reduces the society that invests in proactive programmes, not by highlighting preventive programmes. Today it has been said that 70% of teachers and teachers do nothing to ignore school violence. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports can be presented to European countries with the employment of professional associates, where a high standard of staff of professional associates within educational educational institutions. Visit European countries and return with data on how many professional associates work in their schools. Furthermore, keep in mind that today when we talk about the children of the victim, that these studies have been shown by generations of children of students and young people who are a war and war generation, which is not the experience of European countries. Also, after all the strategies that the Ministry had been able to read and explain with all co-workers from other ministries have made a very good law, it has just made proactive activities such as the introduction of home order, the ethical code of professional, the rules of conduct shared today and with parents, it is very important that the initial education of teachers and teachers that has raised to the level from the Bologna process to 60 ECTS, introduced the protocol of action of the crisis team, the assistance of victims and assistance to the perpetrators of violence, the distribution of money from those 27 million kuna items for prevention has not disappeared, and someone has stolen them, but have just been put into pro-active programmes, and the reading of the proposal of impedimention, the sick countries and the rest of the school. And I feel the need to tell Mr. Assembly MP Mršić that the strategy for the prevention of violence and inadequate space and non-violence is a bit strange correlation because it has not been proven anywhere that violence has been reduced as the square of any space is larger. As for your consent which has been requested, she has been examined and you are very well aware that the request has been returned to comply with pedagogical standards and standards in order to make a request for 600 students as much as predicted... A square with 5 thousand square meters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50407	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague colleague named Zeljana Pondor also appeared for discussion. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50408	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here at the beginning of my debate I will say a very clear sentence behind which I stand, which is that violence among young people is not a daily political issue. So violence among young people is not a daily political issue. I would be sorry if we were to pour oil on the fire with this interpretation, because at the very least it would not be right to show the situation worse than it is, and nor is it fair, perhaps for the sake of the families of those victims who may be here today following this debate of ours, to say that the problem is less than it is. It should be realistic, but that's where your reality needs to be supported by facts. In fact, no one on this or on the other side of the pay phone said that there was no problem of violence, but respected colleagues and colleagues, no one has a magic wand to erase negative phenomena in society right now, so I'm not going to talk about this matter dryly either. Here's something very personal, in a little over a month I will become a mother and I am personally interested in this problem because I am aware that my husband and I will not be able to put my son under a glass bell, protect him from all possible negative influences that will eventually happen to him through his life from his birth. Regardless of our parenting efforts, I am not mistaken that my son will live among his peers, among other people only in a way that he will meet exclusively well - meaning people. Also, something very personal, before I begin with the main part of my debate, unfortunately I am personally affected by the case of violence among young people, amongst the age of 25, who had a fatal outcome. I would be very uncomfortable to say the name of that person even though it is a member of my family and use his name for daily political purposes. The bully's convicted, he's in jail. So I repeat, and for this Split experience, I will not speak dryly about this subject. I'm going to talk to specific numbers, concrete data, and yes, I'm going to be very critical. Since children and young people are as a separate group of societies under the special care of the state, it is clear that we need to do everything in order to adequately care for their lives, and it is not at all important on which side of the assembly, left, right or center, quality and concrete proposals to improve child care and youth. However, I must say that with particular attention I have studied these materials and the proposed interpretation as well as the text of the Government's observation, but also some other data that I have come to and have actually shown me that the promoters of this interpretation have not done their domestic work well. They didn't do their homework right. Namely, you didn't present the exact information. And secondly, as an improvement, you suggest measures that are already being implemented or that we have adopted in the context of legislative proposals, for example. Last year in this High House, and again I note that everything I've said so far does not speak for day-to-day political reasons. But first, I would like to say that the most questionable thing I've heard in our today's debates and on behalf of and on behalf of the SDP club is that I quote, "We don't need laws, we don't need strategies or protocols that the competent state authorities have adopted." Such a statement is quite dangerous in this House as the highest legislative institution in Croatia. Because if these legislative or sublegal acts didn't exist, there would be anarchy. Or do you think that the case that we were already talking about today in our discussions when Father took matters into his own hands, beat up his child's abuser, that that father was right? So what would happen if we all took justice into our own hands? If anyone may know of any individual cases of breach of protocol in the conduct of violence, which indeed exists, I hope that we have all agreed that there are even though in the opening debate the opposite has been said. So, if you didn't report, in my opinion, you're committing a serious offense, individual responsibility. Now something about how important the data is. Your data was very important to you in the morning. Until the afternoon part of the debate was no longer important to us because we killed them with concrete numbers, comparisons, percentages. And I've already said that somehow, given the change in strategy from morning to afternoon, it's about ideological interpretation. I hope that's not the case. I hope this isn't really about ideological interpretation. Although it would be like a layman to me, and today I'm speaking here as a parliamentary representative, it's quite enough to refuse this interpretation. However, I am responsible for every spoken word, and I am still more responsible for myself because I am vice-president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and I can also say on this side about some of the information already made by the Secretary of State and the Government's responsible representatives who have spoken with us today at this session. I'm not going to count all those 17, I think we've had enough, so the 17 corrections I have in your numbers. I think we've talked enough about them already. But I will only say that, as a result of the fall in the implementation of the Youth Violence Prevention Programme for 2009, the 11% decline of the youth violence by 2009 was already listed at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 8 June 2009. The decline in the number of acts of violence prosecuted against public order and peace. I will not speak in detail about the National Strategy for Prevention of Disabilities in Child and Youth Behavior from 2009 to 2012. My colleagues have already talked about the corrections of various figures relating to the employment of professionals in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools. Also, Mrs. Vican just before my hearing corrected the data you keep repeating and that sounds pretty good, but it's not true. That we have reduced the number of planned total funds aimed at children and young people. This Government, gentlemen, is not saving on children and young people because comparing the State budget for 2009 and 2010, there is a rise in planned total funds for children and young people in the positions of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Ministry of Health and Social Care and in the positions of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And if what we heard in the opening statement were true, then there is no protocol on the conduct in cases of violence between children and young people then it would not be possible to see that the Ministry of the Interior provided information that 3256 practices in the region of the Republic of Croatia were recorded in 2009 in accordance with the protocol. You also suggested to us that we should be banned from receiving betting payments from persons under the age of 18. Well, for God's sake, we've already passed the law on gambling that came into force on January 1st this year. So we adopted him last year, where the provision already stands, etc., etc. What is violence? Violence between children and young people is a direct, deliberate, accidental physical or psychological behavior directed at children and young people by their peers with the aim of inflicting injuries that can vary in severity, intensity and duration. But what I'm asking here is, does violence occur at the parent-child relationship? It happens. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that violence is being taught. Violent forms of behavior are equally learned. And just like violent conflict resolution is taught. If we punish children with physical violence, then we can expect them to use violence as a method of resolving conflict. As early as last year, I think the current Prime Minister was still Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, a campaign against the physical punishment of children in the co-operation of the family ministry, defenders, intergenerational solidarity and UNICEF began. That's where the gentlemen should begin. That's the moment you can say... Why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we are against the physical punishment of children and are systematically spent even before kindergarten since the first phase of parenting, then we can avoid the various negative consequences of physical punishment, which are worse mental health, for example. Less confidence, more depression, worse relations with their parents, or violence teaches us not to respect parents, but to fear and encourage children to resist or avenge or even leave parents. 3. As a result of physical punishment, poorer self - control and weaker moral standards occur, or violence does not teach children reasons and ways of proper conduct. 4. As a consequence, increased aggression and socially unacceptable behaviour occur, i.e. physical punishment of a child leaves the impression that aggression is normal, acceptable and effective. And for the end, I'm just asking a question about my parents' responsibility. It seemed to me, in the context of the debate on the parent committee, that it was only then that that question actually opened up in the right sense. And in this sense here for the end I see that already at the end of time, I can only give one commendation to the Split police, because in the past weekend as many as 26 minors under 16 years of age, police found themselves in a night out on the streets of Split, contrary to the Family Law in the time of 23 to 5 hours, when under 16 it is forbidden to be in a public place. 26 families were then warned, or mothers and fathers who had to come to the police to pick up their child. And I think it's one of the first cases, at least that I know of and that has been followed in the media how positive we are to act according to the law. So the laws exist. That's how long I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50409	Thank you very much. And now, as usual, a little correction and a little replica. First of all, the correction of the quote is the distinguished colleague Milanka Opacic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50410	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of colleague Kalash who said that on behalf of the SDP club here we were told we didn't need any strategies, no laws, no programs. That's an incorrect colleague, Kalash. We didn't say that. We have said that everything that has been brought so far is insufficient and that we do not have an effective system in practice that will protect children from violence. As long as we have children who have been suffering violence in schools for months, who don't come to school for months, and after that someone gets beat up on the road without anyone in the system in charge reacting to it, that means we have a problem and that means we need to see how that problem is solved. We will not solve the problem of violence among the young.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50411	Thank you. Next correction, distinguished colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50412	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So here's Zeljana Pondor, in her debate, said that this interpretation that the SDP gave in the debate was actually an ideological interpretation. How can there be ideological interpretation, an interpretation that actually requires a debate on the dramatic increase in violence between children and young people that we have all agreed so far here in the debates so far is a fact. Furthermore, as ideological interpretation may be the one that seeks to analyse the effects of implementing regulations, let's say ban night outs, visit to bookshops under the age of 16 and ban the sale of alcohol.ð How ideologically it can be an interpretation that requires consideration of the effects of the implementation of the Family Law in that section relating to parental care supervision, the separation of children from the family. How do you even know that these regulations we have that function are good and have certain effects if these effects are not analysed? So this in no way can be ideological interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50413	Thank you. And now the first application of the replica, counterpart Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have rightly referred to your colleagues that HDZ will reject this interpretation proposal for the reason that what is actually proposed or already adopted or is in the implementation phase and is already in place through various documents in fact in action and in fact there is no reason to support this SDP initiative because it is quite a strong fight against violence in this population, which is clearly the indicators you spoke of about the fall of 11% compared to last year, etc. So all that you have numbered rightly. So the question arises why today is, in fact, the political way he's trying to place the impelation and here he is imputing very negatively insulting the HDZ club that we don't care about what's going on in society that doesn't care that there's a need to fight violence, etc. In fact, it lies in the fact that obviously SDP wants to continue to create anarchy in society, to cause chaos, as clearly said from the sentences of counterpart Ingrid Antičević. And here I have her transcript of her speech which is contrary to what the SDP club says. The SDP club says this is not politics, this is not a political matter, and its representative, Ingrid Anticevic, says this is primarily a political matter. So those inside the club can't figure out what this is about. Obviously or insufficiently talk about what needs to be achieved with such an act of interpretation or obviously one of them is telling the truth. I think that before telling the truth, colleague Anticevic, because she made it clear that it was a political matter and they want to transfer this fight against violence to a political sphere which is absolutely unacceptable from what we heard from Mrs Vican is quite clear that it is not that unnecessary and infertile debate about interpelication, but that it is completely missed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50415	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Podruga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50416	Thank you, Mr. Matusic. I fully sign your line, and the only thing I can answer is that this whole case, in fact, the chaos that rules in SDP statements and even on behalf of the club, reminds me of the "holding these thieves, but only if the thief isn't in SDP" so we're fighting corruption, but only if we're not fighting corruption in SDP. or we fight the problem, but only if it's not a problem with the SDP or if it's important to us, but you only know if we kill you, then we don't care about the data anymore this afternoon. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50417	Thank you. And the next application of the replica, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50418	Thank you very much. Your colleagues publicly doubted whether you would put your future child under a glass bell and raise him in such a way. He did not guarantee that he would become such an honest and good man. They will not choose the way of truth, love and goodness. Under the glass bell, only the opposite of all characteristics will be accepted. Most people's behavior is influenced by value systems, and they are formed mostly in families, and they are added to further life through schools and different institutions, under the influence of different social factors and under the great influence of the media. Valuable systems affect all our thoughts and all our actions and how we treat other people and do so primarily in the family. What you're recording is how your child treats another man. Whether someone is going to be, lead to discord or harmony, whether someone is going to be a man or a wolf determines first the value system of each individual and should work on it most. Unfortunately, the media here also lacks sufficient and bad practice. I, when I was a child, enjoyed watching cartoons and was looking forward to Lupi Dobrić if you remember him and today as soon as you open the television you just watch violence and in many ways it affects the valuable systems of those who are able to do evil and do evil only weak people, strong people are willing to just do good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50419	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is distinguished colleague Podruga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50420	Thank you, Mr. Maric, for your replica because you've actually given me the opportunity to come up with some other important things, which is that I'm particularly proud today, here in front of us, on behalf of the HDZ Government and the coalition and the State Secretary who works at the Family Ministry. This particular government was founded by the First Family Ministry. Isn't that a clear message what HDZ thinks of family? Secondly, this government has established 17 family centres that have actually transferred some powers from the position of the social care and health care centres because they actually play a proactive and preventive role. But my colleague, Maric, I absolutely agree with you. With all state institutions today, the role of parents is more important than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50421	On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50422	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I only report because debates often mention social care centres, so it is also mentioned here in the conclusions of interpretation and civil society and many other proposals that should be implemented. I must say that the fact that welfare centres are burdened by jobs, however, is aware of the fact that violence exists in society, that neither it is kept secret nor neglected and that it is trying as hard as possible and as best as possible to do its job. The Ministry of Health and Social Care in its programmes to help social care centres and experts only this year has invested nearly 2.5 million kunas to co-operate with civil society as proposed in these conclusions, so I would just not bother you to say that we are working with the Psychological Assistance Society, with SOS Phone Call for Help, Women's Room, the Centre for Sexual Rights, the Association for the Protection of Abuse Children and Victims of Violence "The Wings of Love", the Women's Human Rights Group "B.a.B.E.", Mirta Split Association, Women's Help "Now", SOS phone for women and children victims of violence with a reception centre, Women's Association "Izvor", Association "Children's First", Association of Social Workers of the Istrian County, Association of Baranja. Also Association for working with young people "Brez",... Association for the Protection of Health, Social Care and Promotion of Children's Rights, Association "The Game", Center for Victims of War, Brave Phone, Phone for Abuse and Ignored Children, Association "Zora", Encouragement, Association "Most", Peace Group "Oaza" Beli Manastir, Association "Cacules through Life", Centre of Peace of Non-violence and Human Rights Osijek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also to improve the work in social care centres, especially in children's homes with behavioral disorders, it happened in Croatia for the first time, and I can say that for the first time, perhaps even in some countries far more developed than we are, we are actually implementing a programme involving social workers and in collaboration with the Dutch government who told us and congratulated us that it is actually the first time that social workers are involved in the same programme as police or other officials to prevent actual anger and to prevent violence between children, i.e. peer violence and such social workers who have been licensed further educate all those who participate in education of children with behavioural disorders whether they are at social care centres, whether they are at home for behavioural disorders. As for the mention of some homes, our homes as mentioned in the House in Osijek, I don't think we should mention especially from this pay phone what the ministry is and what our inspection has clearly and aloud explained in all the newspapers that this was not there. Therefore, if there is any knowledge and we can subscribe each of you to a parliamentary representative, there is no problem, if you want we will send you reports of inspections which have been on several occasions and also lists of experts who have collaborated with us in this area, so you will see that there are not only people from the Ministry of Health and Social Care inspection but also independent experts who have claimed the exact opposite of what was in the media involved. And why it was in the media I'd say it was more political than another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50423	On behalf of the proposing colleague, Opačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50424	I have to take this opportunity to simply ask Mrs. Secretary of State for Social Care after all this she's said here about how the employees of the welfare center are involved, so social workers in some education that is absolutely welcome. But as the Union of Social Workers commented a few days ago about how their profession has been ignored for seven years, they want the Ministry of Social Care to separate it as a special ministry or join another ministry rather than remain in the health care system because both systems are burdened with problems and social care in this definitely is one unwanted child. They warn that they do not have a supervisory vision, that they do not have time, they provide one piece of information that, for example, one employee in the social care center comes to them with a lot of jobs that are very wide range. They say this about the abuse of family, marital conflicts, incest, alcoholism, other addictions, juvenile delinquency, behavioral disorders, the problem of a third-aged person, while on one social worker we go to 10,000 persons and 1 social worker to 200 families. That's what I was talking about this morning, so they don't have time because they're overloaded and can't deal with as effectively as they should be working with risk families. And in the end, when you talk about mental health professionals, you need to know that only people who are educated can work with such children. They are called psychotherapists, and in Croatia you can count them on two hands. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50425	Thank you. We've got one report of a rectification. Dear colleague, Sunday's Klaric. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the inaccuracies of the lady's representative that there's no supervision. There is, because you have just come from the report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on your interpretation, and by the number that 35 experts have been trained, trained to conduct supervisory procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50427	Thank you. A co-worker, Susana Bilic Vardic, also applied for the debate. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50428	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Interpletion of the Social Democratic Party's Representatives Club on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in preventing and combating growing violence, delinquency, crime and risky behaviour among children and young people is another in a series of failed attempts to prove the opposition that nothing is wrong in the Croatian state. How to do this if not a well-tested method on several pages selectively state the data only of those who contribute to me in an attempt to prove the thesis, and it does not matter whether these data are accurate or not on the principle of former accusations in which it is contained and judgment. I'm sure it's not pleasant when on such a complex 6-page interpretation you get a reviewed and exhausted response to 50 pages that cancel and destroy the allegations, but in doing so I'm surprised and surprised by the tenacity and perseverance in the defence of interpretation and no positive word for so far done and all that the Croatian Government in this field is doing. It is good to point out that there has been an interpletion because we heard in previous discussions, Col. Simunović pointed out the incorrect data, but I am not surprised because my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, you wrote in your interpretation that in March of this year, the Club of Representatives of the SDP was referred to in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, etc., and the letter bears a date on 27 January 2010. Obviously, as visionaries, you know what you've done in the future. But you are not visionaries but happened to be wrong, you sent this letter in March 2009 as a proposal to include the item on the agenda "The rise of violence among young people in the Republic of Croatia to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its response in May of the same year. However, since there was no opinion from the home Committee on the Family within a year, the youth and sport point could not be discussed under the Rules of Procedure at the plenary session. I should like to say that it is at the head of the board of members of the SDP Club who missed out on this, so I guess that is why the parliamentary majority and the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be guilty. And then, in January 2010, this interpretation is submitted, this time it comes to the home Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and is unaccepted, or rejected. I will start with the fact that Croatia has an excellent legislative framework from Family to Penal Code, and principles on the protection of young people are also embedded in national documents. Unfortunately, there are both good and important parts of the rules relating to prevention, which are not implemented. So, for example. Many parents do not implement a provision in the Family Law under which children under 16 cannot be out without a parent or guardian’s escort from 23 - 5 in the morning. What particularly affected me in the interpretation of my colleagues from the SDP was the lack of the role of parents. So, for everything that's wrong with this country, it's the government, I'm talking about children and young people. You cited a dramatic increase in violence between children and young people as one of the reasons, and then in that morning part of this debate they proved to you that it was not a drastic increase in violence, and you based it on media data, almost daily. So there's no parenting role, no parenting role in this whole story, and this problem is not important. It's only mentioned in one place where he says so we've had the chance to hear parents fighting today, he says during a crisis period and increased efforts by parents to ensure family existence. Someone said it even better today, they're fighting for a naked life. Well, colleagues and colleagues, we won't agree. There has been no crisis in this country since 2004 and the government has done nothing since, and parents have no obligation to their children. Therefore, in preventing violence, delinquency, crime, and risky behavior among children and young people, the role of parents is important. In preventing exposure to those risks, parents play a significant and non-replaceable role and responsibility. The parliamentary majority and the Croatian government advocate responsible parenting. And in this debate, I will take the opportunity to answer those colleagues and colleagues who were surprised and asked questions as to how we can expect, so if a parent is not obliged to take care of a child and can't, I ask the question of how you can expect, I am an educational worker, how can you expect from a teacher, teacher, teacher that in 45 minutes as long as the teacher in question is in a day or 90 if it's a block hour, notices the problems facing someone's child. Even this educator, this educator has a family of his own and he is fighting for existence, and he has a child to whom he must devote himself after work and work. So the role of the parents in the interpretation is not highlighted anywhere. Let's go back to the documents Croatia has. Of the 110 measures under the National Programme for Youth 27 measures, 81 measures were implemented in full and two measures could not be implemented as an amendment to the Constitution would be necessary. It was the right to vote since the 16th year and to organise a field trip that requires amendments to the law. In your interpretation, you started immediately from a dramatic increase in criminality among young people. The fact is, however, that the rate of crime among young people in the Republic of Croatia is 20% and is below the European average. But with that little observation, perhaps the reason is also because not all violence is still reported with us, but just difficult cases. My colleagues and colleagues, I am interested in how representatives in other countries in our environment, because we are at the door of the European Union and I am sure that we will soon become a full member of this great family of European countries. How do MPs put themselves in their own countries? If they point out that we're very interested in that gray figure, we're all aware of it. But why are we stressing the situation in Croatia? My real point is also what I expected the government to give in its answer where violence is among young people. So in what we are doing in the Republic of Croatia in relation to the European environment. Croatia is not an island. What is happening among young people in Croatia is not a single case and a specific case of our country alone, and I expected that the government in response will partially touch and take that picture, give a picture of where we are relative to the environment. Speaking of which, the D.A.'s office is recording more and more applications, but related to new technologies. Now I don't, I see I don't have time to talk about dangers coming from the Internet, cell phones and everything that's in the children's hands. We are not talking about the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also established the regional conditions of the Ombudsman's Office for Children in Rijeka, Split and Osijek, that we have sensitised the Croatian public and that we can therefore expect this number of applications, an increased number of applications. However, given the inevitable role of the internet in education, it is important to warn of the responsibility of parents and companies providing Internet services. In no word does the opposition wish to highlight the importance of family centres, 17 family centres operating in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm very sorry to come from one of those four counties that haven't been given a family center at the moment because of the economic situation. But it's not all the government's fault. I come from the middle, the Brod-Posavina County and the town of Slavonski Brod, in which the mayor couldn't find any space to maintain this activity. And in conclusion, I am convinced that only through continued implementation of all documents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia aimed at preventing and preventing violence between young people and working together of all relevant institutions dealing with young people can achieve a better and even better result in this area, and I support the Government in its future work. Out of all the above, not only can I not support it, but as the Government rejects the allegations from this interpretation of the Social Democratic Party's Club of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50429	Thank you. And now we're going in a row. We have two quote corrections and seven replicas. First of all, the correction of the quote is the esteemed colleague Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50430	My colleague Bilić Vardić is incorrect that we did not propose part of this interpretation, a debate on this topic. On March 16th, we sent a supplement to the agenda of the 9th session – the rise of violence among young people in the Republic of Croatia. We wanted to open a discussion about this problem. On 14 May 2009, the government gave an opinion on a proposal to launch a debate on the rise of violence among young people in the Republic of Croatia. She said she did not accept the launch of a debate in the Assembly on the subject, that she was aware of the fact that violence was between children and young people. However, in accordance with its own section, etc. It shall take certain measures. Since it has not been enough for ten months for this topic to be discussed, we have gone with the interpretation precisely because, according to our Rules of Procedure, it has to be discussed at the session at which it was put on the agenda, and if we had stayed at this point that was always at the end of the agenda, we would not have discussed it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50431	Thank you. Keep going. Correction of the alleged distinguished colleague Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50432	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Bilić Vardić who said that there is no parent responsibility speech in our interpretation and that I think it's all the fault of the state. We here primarily wanted to talk about parents who do not perform their parental duty. So the family is the foundation of everything, is that this is what I said in the opening part of the family, that a perfect child can come out of the family. But unfortunately, we have these children coming out of a family that's problematic that we talked about today. So, when we have a family like that, then the state has to intervene. Well, we can't tell, is it a family problem, so we won't do anything. Unfortunately, one of the directors and the strongest centre here in Zagreb said the other day in the newspaper if the statement is correct. And that's what she said, so I can't get into the family. That's not true. It is also the legal task of the center to enter the family and to see what is happening. I can't have teachers coming in, I can't have kindergarten aunts, but I can do social care.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50433	Thank you. The first one was answered by representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50434	You say colleagues and you resent that in this interpretation, there is no apostrophe of a family like that segment of society that would be the most responsible for preventing violence among young people. Violence among young people is seen as a social problem, a problem of society and this problem of society must be solved if it is a social problem. We can't, or we'd be completely inefficient if we said listen to her, it's a family matter, so let the families sort it out, keep an eye on how children are raised, and that violence will be less. Children who grow up in arranged families, who receive adequate, quality education will not become violent or are far less likely to become violent. And relying on a family that is dysfunctional or that is not there and which has already proved unable to raise children in this way is actually sticking their heads into the sand. We wouldn't accomplish anything by that. Well, we can't rely on a family that's already shown she's in no condition to solve the problem. He has to intervene with society. It is a social problem, and Mrs Bilić Vardic is not a party problem. And that's why it doesn't matter what party put this in the process. That's why it's completely innocent when she referred it to the procedure. What's important is that we have one social problem and that we should all care about solving this social problem, that's what bothers us, that you reject that interpretation as an invitation to discuss the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50435	Replication response, colleague Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50436	Thank you, dear fellow Stazic, for giving me the chance to ask if it means you're giving up this interpretation. No one here, first of all, is incorrect either of us or I, in my presentation, claimed it was neither my position nor the parliamentary majority club that violence among young people is a family matter. What is the fact of my colleague Stazić that I did well, that is now the answer to those corrections of the incorrect quote to my colleague Zgrebec, read what is written in your interpretation on page 3, they did not write well when they submitted. If I hadn't been on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport in which Mrs. Opačić was president and I hadn't heard all those people on behalf of the Advocacy Club that you had told us anywhere in the interpretation that it was not about risk families, those families, but that you'd declared all the children to be violent, everyone who worked at the Centres don't know their jobs, are incompetent, the State Secretary, Ms. Vican, has corrected the injustice you've done and the employees in the system of education and that you've gone differently, that the text of the interpretation was different then we could talk, and that you have fulfilled that obligation that I said in your debate that the Youth and Sports Committee had delivered it to the President of the Parliament during the past year, but you do not mind, you again write that this year that in March you submitted an increase of violence among young people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50437	Thank you very much. Next to the replica came a colleague of Carmela Caparin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, you have noted very well that the Social Democratic Party has not mentioned the family at all in this interpretation, nor is it important, I would dare say, and we know that the family is indeed a fundamental unit of this society, and that the family has a great role in countering violence. Despite the facts spoken by Mr. Stazic, I can only say one fact that early exposure to domestic violence during childhood increases the likelihood of violence in adolescence by 40%.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50439	Replication response, colleague Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50440	Thank you, colleague Caparin. What I did not have time to stress in the debate, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in all its documents, in all the programs that family centres provide and support parents so that they can and can cope with numerous challenges in raising their children. Thank you, therefore, for pointing out and confirming the role and importance of the family, or parents, in raising children, and for preventing violence among young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50441	Thank you. Next replica, colleague of Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50442	Thank you very much. Comrade Vardić, you said you were reading from our interpretation that the government is guilty of everything. We're talking about a dysfunctional system. I can tell you I'm pretty confused. I don't usually politicize or express myself here with a hate speech, but I have to say, I'm confused. There's a constant number of forms here, so here's what the Ministry of the Family is all about, as much as the family thinks, as this government thinks of family. Then the State Secretary said it invested in 2 million kunas, co-operation with civil society. That's right, probably. However, whether you know where these money is, whether you know the result, whether you are actually ready to see and change something if there are no results, and obviously the results are not good, because violence is on the rise. Also, Madam Secretary of State says that there is no need to create a common, i.e. the same preventive programme that we talk about all the time and say that the problem of violence is not the same. The problem of violence from etiological factors, diagnosis, therapy is always the same, it's unacceptable behavior. Who says it's a problem of violence? So, fellow Members, you've listed the same thing, you've listed 110 measures for young people who are the result. All of these are forms and centres for, all of these are the forms that are needed, but the contents are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50443	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50444	This interpretation can't solve the situation, but it's an open path to solving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50445	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50446	Thank you very much. My colleague Bonačić, first of all, to correct you because you said that violence is still on the rise, and violence is not on the rise but is reduced, these are data that the government has provided. And when you say, why did I react the way I reacted? So I'll quote, read what you wrote from your relationship with the government. Therefore, at the end of the interpretation, the above data and indicators indicate not only the government's lack of interest in taking effective and urgent measures to combat violence between children and young people, but also to stop etc., etc. My colleague Bonačić, I am sure you will agree with me that no law, no strategy, no debate at both home and this plenary session will eradicate the problem of violence among young people. I am sure that in a different tone, that you, in a different language and in a different intention, went to consider this issue in the Croatian Parliament so that the debate on this side of the assembly would be different. That's why you can't expect us to accept that the government has done nothing so far, that it doesn't do anything. And I'll tell you what your colleagues at the Family Committee told you that we won't admit he has a problem, and who's satisfied? Well, the government is aware of the problem, which is why it's doing all this, and you're going to agree with me, I hope, that only the continued, long-term implementation of all these measures and even the improvement throughout the system can result in the desired result, which is a further reduction of violence among young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50447	Thank you very much. Next, an esteemed colleague, Jerko Roshin, applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My replica is a colleague compared to the treatment of the family in this interpretation. Because it seems to me that it is not easy to protect family, to have a family, and to raise children in a family. Thus, it is vital that the family’s condition and family stimulation exist and be able to raise children. Violence is today, today violence in the world is a general phenomenon. So in children it's just one of the manifestations, which is why one atmosphere in society is the wider one that affects this. And the only solid link in society today is family. And that's why I think the issue of the media is a very responsible issue, and it's as important in the interpretation as the family is. Because those two things are very connected to each other. One influences the other and the family's disintegration leads to, say, worse conditions. Therefore, stimulating a positive relationship in the family, i.e. a reduction in the depression that is increasingly afirmable in the media, and the situation would be significantly different. That's why I'm sorry that these two topics in the interpellation, which absolutely deserves attention, I agree, are not properly affirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50449	Thank you, colleague Roshin. Replication response, colleague Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50450	Thank you very much. You've got a good look at my friend Roshin. I've had it written for the media. I don't know if I've looked back enough. I just said that colleagues from the SDP are calling for cases that the media is making. We heard today in the debate that the media is not marking anything. If we're talking about the Law on Electronic Media, if we're talking about the Agency for Electronic Media, we can notice that lately, but these are achievements, so nothing can be solved overnight. Our films are marked 12, 15, 18. Forbidden, therefore, for children under the age of 12, under 15 or below 18. And there's progress. And another thing, as many of the colleagues in the opposition were serious, they tasked the government with some, in their interpretation, with four points at a time, and then a lot of substantiations that within 15 days all of what they wanted, and they got in response to the interpretation of delivery. And if only a little, colleagues and colleagues, had been patient then we would have had what the government wrote that the data on the implementation and implementation of the national policy programme against the prevention of violence among young people by 28 February were required to deliver to the Government the resolution bodies. And therefore such a report can be delivered to this House by the Government. All it took was a little patience, after a year nothing would change anything these few weeks and make anything worse in this area. Thank you very much. And maybe we'd have even fresher data.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50451	Katarina Leakovic, a colleague, also reported for the replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50452	Yes, Caroline Leakovic, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Bilić-Vardić said that in our interpretation we didn't really devote enough space to the role of parents, or the role of family. Now we've heard the same thing about the media. So I would actually say that we have not even submitted this interpretation of the role of parents, of the role of the media, but of the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense we cannot really accept that colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ stress the role and responsibility of parents and only families and only the media, and in some ways remove that responsibility from the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think that would mean something like, I don't know, you got sick, who's guilty, you ate wrong, you didn't move, we're not gonna pay for your health care. If you have money, it's treated, if you don't, don't treat yourself. It's also, so, yeah, your kid's got behavioral problems or he's a victim of violence. Well, whoever did this to you was a bad parent, and there's nothing we can do about it. Such an attitude is actually absolutely unacceptable to us because there really are problems in the system that we have made very clear today. And I hope there will be more opportunities to talk about this topic today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50453	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Bilić-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50454	My colleague, Leakovic, is perfectly clear to me that the SDP club has submitted an interpretation of the work of the government of the Republic of Croatia, not of the media and of the parents. I'm sorry that I'm in my debate, because I'm running out of time, and I haven't kept track of enough, I haven't told you what the media is doing to us. I've just set a positive example in electronic media, but what the media pulls out from day to day is drastic and extreme, these are facts, the deaths of young people as a consequence of violence among young people, so amongst peers, are facts. But from the same media, we haven't seen that this very population of children and young people that they are daily, they don't always have to be on the cover, and these are always on the cover, but they are also positive things that children and young people in the Republic of Croatia do, and they do for them. That's one thing. Secondly, I must tell you that you were present on the board when it was said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does nothing to prevent violence among young people, when we are told that we are covering problems, of which there is no great benefit, and you heard in the debate both my colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary majority club that there is no law, there is no strategy, there are no national plans and programmes, and what would we be doing then, and how would the situation be? Therefore, only through continuous implementation and joint implementation of all institutions in the system can we get, or improve the situation on this, but I cannot give you the right to deny everything that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done in the area of prevention and prevention of violence among young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50455	Next replica, Ms. Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bilić-Vardic, I haven't given up on the replica, even though this is actually what my colleague Leakovic said exactly what I wanted. In fact, you said that there was no mention of the role of family, the role of parenting, and that in some way you resent this interpretation. And I wanted to tell you exactly what my colleague said and that's that the subject of impelation is the role of the government. We wanted to open a debate about what the government is doing and what the government's role is in this problem and whether it fills it fully. But you could read a lot about the role of parenting and the guilt of parenting in the government report. In fact, the government has transferred its responsibility to the role of parents and I find parenting a major culprit. I am convinced, however, that the family is only half a problem and that its potential bad influence and poor role in raising a child could be and should be neutralised if the other factors in society remain more responsible, i.e. the rest of society and institutions would do their job with quality and responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50457	Thank you. Answer to Mrs. Susan's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50458	Thank you very much. My colleague, Jerkovic, is clear to me that in the interpretation you wanted to shed light on the role of the government, and I said that in my debate, and I will repeat, and in response to your reply, you are not satisfied with the response that the government provided, because in this response the greatest grumbling of your allegations proved to be incorrect, and it proved that the Government does much more than you expected. Although this is a replica I really need to correct you, you said that the government is transferring roles and responsibility to the parents. That's not true in any way. That's not what it stands for. I'll repeat what I've already said in reply to the replica. The government stresses the importance of the role and responsibility of parents as well as the need to provide greater support to parents so that they can and can cope with numerous challenges in raising children. That's what the data is about. The government sent them in response to the parliamentary question of your colleague, Maria Lugaric, which all the family centres have done in the past 2009 alone. How many round tables, how many workshops not only for children and young people, but also for parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50459	Mr. Representative Luke Denon, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50460	... that there is violence among young people, of course. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And here we will agree, together with us, that we have offered this interpretation of the role of the government in solving and preventing this violence among young people, that there is violence. It's unfortunately more brutal. Whether it's more or less, statistically speaking, anyway, I think it doesn't matter. Because those who are affected by this violence, and there are young but also the parents of those young, but also the parents of those whose children are violent, are also affected by such..., deserve to be sure that violence among young people is discussed in a different way. And then it's amazing how in your debate you say or at least through this whole debate there's an impression, we have a strategy we have everything we need to have, it's kind of satisfying, so we've done everything we can to make that violence as little as possible. But you, colleague Vardic, are just saying that do you think the strategy is enough, that's what you told us. Of course we don't think so. That's what you said. You think the strategy is enough we think the strategy is not enough and then you compare us interestingly, Croatia is not an island, and then that percentage or the average of violence that is in Europe, so let us please because we are not an island, we are part of Europe. But when we talk about wages or when we talk about unemployment, then we cannot catch that average in wages, we cannot catch the average of Europe in unemployment. Then we're not an island. Then we're some kind of speciality. I don't think it's a good comparison that we're not an island, so we can agree that if the violence in Europe is so strong, that we're on that Tuesday and that's okay. I think this caring and transferring care to your parents is okay. But see if your parents are responsible, and they are responsible, then they take care of their children. And woe to those parents whose children are violent, woe to those parents whose children are victims of violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50461	All right, buddy Denona. Thank you, thank you. .../Speakers speak in the same voice./... Okay, thank you. The answer to the replica of Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50462	Comrade Denon, who said there was no violence? I don't know what your replica was in order, but every time I do, I won't get tired and say it, so the government said it in all of what it does, we are deeply aware and concerned about such a phenomenon among young people in the Republic of Croatia. You're always going. I've said that you and the interpelation only used the selective selection of the data to suit you. So now that you've passed on to me what I'd like to know that we've heard here today about the situation in terms of violence, we've presented information about how we are by crime, the rate of crime among young people in the Republic of Croatia, is below the crime rate in the European Union. But you have a problem with your colleague Denona when the Prime Minister says that the decline of gross domestic product in the Republic of Croatia is lower than the members of the European Union. Now, you see, that's this selective approach on your part, and that's why it's a little harder to talk seriously and find a common approach, and I think that the issue of violence is prevention and prevention of violence among young people should have been adopted here by consensus and that we all have the same attitude together. But we can't have it when you're focusing on the question of the government's role in this matter, and you're already expressing your position. And just one more thing to paraphrasise the sentence, please, which stands in the interpretation, say that such a relationship to that problem, and talks about the government is currently and long-term harmful and leaves far-reaching consequences to society as a whole. Your relationship with your colleagues from the SDP and according to this problem, therefore violence against young people and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is long-term harmful not only to the community but also to your party. Time will tell.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50463	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50464	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's hard to take the impression especially when we take into account everything that's been going on lately, or maybe I'd better say in the last few years that we're not doing enough, that we're doing a little bit to prevent and combat growing violence, delinquency, crime and risky behavior. I don't think it's a question or a problem that's related exclusively to one resistor, which is related exclusively to one ministry or to one segment of society, although in the past few years, it seems to me that we're largely dealing with it, which is that we're transferring a ball of responsibility from one element of the system to another. It's some people's fault, some people's family, some people's school is wrong, and for some people we see today, it's nobody's fault because there's no problem. There is no separate and individual responsibility in such an important problem except for what the government has because the government has in its hands and the power and the instruments to change things. We do not claim that the government is doing absolutely nothing but we want to discuss whether what we are doing is whether the strategies we have are giving the results we need, what we expect and what we want. Some people find it difficult to accept facts from Croatian streets, I would say Croatian schools, but I'm afraid if we don't seriously approach this problem, everything will come back to us as a boomerang. Today we are talking about violence between young and young. Some accept facts, some don't. However, we are already ignoring something that is slowly but certainly becoming a fact, which is that violence is not only happening among young people and young people but also in relation to adults, so child violence against parents, children versus teachers, and I am afraid that this will happen as a boom in a few years, and that we will not welcome it as prepared as we have not seen this problem of violence among young people and young people welcome ready. What society does is also the fact that 73 minors were killed last year. Two students were killed at the Vinca school and the school had no psychologist at the time. So every suicide of a child happens after a child sends us a signal that he is having a hard time and that something is wrong. Lucky kids don't kill each other, I guess that's clear. So I think it's justified to ask what happened to prevention and what happened to protocols and programmes that should have been applied in these cases and not. It's obvious they didn't. If there's no psychologist to find the problem, talk to the child, talk to the parents. And as my colleague previously concluded, a society where children are killed cannot be a healthy society, something very, very deep and essential is wrong. The question arises whether we have the answer and whether all the strategies, programmes and protocols we have provide an adequate answer to this problem. Where do I personally see the problem when we talk about children, young people and the violence that is happening between and against them? I believe that one of the key problems is that we should not be hypocritical and say that nothing is right. No, we have good laws we just don't apply. On one occasion, I was already talking about the Law against Public Order and Peace which says it is forbidden to give alcoholic beverages to minors under 16 years of age. And the second law on catering activities and trades, which speaks of a ban on selling under 18 years of age. So these are the two laws we have. They're quality, but we don't use them. That is what the MUP reports say that there were no violations in this regard in 2007. In 2008, four violations, and in 2009, only three. So, of course these data can't be and aren't real. So that's a big problem. We do not implement the laws or strategies we have, and today children are absolutely all available. They're available for alcohol, they're available for drugs, they're available for weapons, guns, bombs, and the consequences are becoming more tragic and more tragic every day. The other big problem I see in person is that we don't detect the problem in time, but the question is, how could we, who should do it? Is there a psychologist who's not in school? Ms. Secretary of State spoke of very high standards, but Madam Secretary of State I asked you a question a month ago in which I asked you and what about the school "St. Matej" from Viskova, which is the largest school in the Primorje-Gorski County, a school attended by 814 students in 30 classrooms, of which 30 students with a solution to the appropriate form of schooling. So, 814 students of 30 children with special needs and for years there has been only one expert associate of the pedagogue. How to respond to the needs of these 30 children with special needs, let alone some new challenges of society such as violence, drugs, etc. The head of the school has been addressing you for four years with an application to allow another professional associate to be employed. The last answer that was is a ban on employment. What about the last three years? So we begin to deal with the problem when the child is already a perpetrator of a crime and the child with the problem can and must be detected much earlier, but in order for this to be possible, it is necessary that we have professional, teamed professional services in schools that you have to admit today that we do not have. Maybe the average when you talk about him doesn't sound catastrophic, but it makes me wonder if it's possible that some schools have five, and others don't have any psychologists. So, in any case, in Croatia at this time, we have very many schools that are underprofessionally teamed and that do not have enough professional staff. The third thing and the big problem is that prevention absolutely failed. Today, it is practically not being implemented, although we boast about school prevention programs we must be honest and say that they are largely not implemented in a large proportion. It is said that they reflect the specificities of school and the interests of students and teachers, but actually in translation it means that 85% of schools do not implement preventive programs because children are uninterested because teachers are unmotivated, overloaded and are not paid. Worst of all, they are not even educated to meet all the challenges needed. The solution to this situation, of course, is not simple, it's not short-lived, but I think we've made it clear in the interpretation what needs to be done and where the government has somehow failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50465	Thank you. One correction, three replicas. Correction, Madam Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'd like to correct is the quote of a lady representative who says we're transferring a ball of responsibility from one to the other. That's incorrect, ma'am. There is no prelude from one another but the government has very meaningfully deepened the performance of all and ensured the continuity of all institutions and entities dealing with children. There is no silence or secrets that this government does not expose to counter violence. And yet another incorrect quote I would correct. When you say we're starting to deal with children when the child is already a perpetrator of a crime. This is also incorrect because you know very well that we have quality preventive school programs that are being conducted equally well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50467	Replica, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. I'd like to replicate to my colleague Jerkovic on the subject of government and stories about what's going on or not. Namely, as I said in some other debates, even earlier in the replica, this is a very interesting and healthy topic and valuable attention and efforts to solve problems. But the problem is that, in your discussions and in your thesis, the political dimension that is directed towards the government begins to prevail and destroy the government on this subject rather than solve the problem that really exists. Such an impression is obtained, such is perception, that it is not really an interest to solve and put the problem on healthy legs but rather a problem that is not specific to Croatia and for this government to try to bring down the government. When this topic begins to prevail then the meaning of the real and valid debate is lost. Because this government at least showed, if it's even figurative, if it's even formally any way you want, but just forming one ministry that in its name the family is at least a distraction on an extremely important topic. And on the subject of family as a cause of either fertil or nonfertile soil, something that happens is extremely important because the government is not the one that can solve a problem, just... But the family is the key that something could possibly happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50469	Replication response. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50470	I'm sorry, colleague Roshin... as you yourself have said an extremely important topic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDP had no intention of destroying the government. If that's what he wanted, he'd be interpelling and looking for it, right? But we were looking for something else entirely. We've asked for a joint report on the number and type of crimes committed by minors. Well, Madam Secretary of State, alone behind this pay phone, I'm glad that there's been this interpretation because now we can finally show some how things stand and unite all three ministries. Is that right, Madam Secretary of State, that's what you just said? Therefore, we could ask as you said to the government's shift, but we were looking for very specific things. We asked to discuss a problem which is at this point a problem of number 1 in the Republic of Croatia, because by discussing youth and violence against and between them we are discussing our own, your own, common future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50471	Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, in your debate, you've made some very nice points. I was reading this report from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact reading only this first page prior to the presentation of statistics concluded that here is actually the most emphasis placed on the media, on the Internet, on the cyber world, on films which is somewhat part of the problem, but certainly is not a real problem, not the core and the essence of the problem. The role of family and the role of society is often emphasized, and then the two things are really separated. Well, it's parents and family, or it's society and government. I want to say next. Which is another family than actually a basic building unit, the basic element of every society. Family and society are unbreakable, inseparable, mutually affecting each other. And then all the processes that happen in society directly reflect on the processes in the family. We have a situation in society today next. We're having an economic crisis, we're having a recession. Thousands and hundreds of thousands of people are out of work every day. We've got a moral crisis, we've got weird moral values. This is exactly the kind of time and circumstances that make families vulnerable, create families at risk, and then create potentials for this problem that we are talking about today and that we are talking about in these families. And then any responsible government that knows the core of the problem besides investing in these times in economic programmes will also invest in prevention programmes, will invest in human capital and human resources. They'll be working to toughen the families themselves. This is exactly what we want to say and emphasize with this interpretation, and this government is not doing it for a purely reason because it is visible that the budget items are large millions that are just supposed to be meant to prevent and strengthen the family. It has to go with each other. Strengthening the family with strengthening the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50473	Replication response. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50474	Thank you very much. It's them, it's them, it's everybody's fault, it's not the government's fault. They say we're not constructive enough and we're politicizing. Here's a very specific thing, a very specific example of what can be done in quality and well at local level. The local community of Rijeka and Primorje-Gorski County, together with the Institute of Public Health in primary schools, spent the training of life skills, a programme for students of six and seven classes through a series of twenty workshops. The goal is to help young people pass through this world and this world. Classes pass a four-day education. Training has a supervisory vision. The evaluation of the programme shows a reduction in the increase in consumption of addiction funds from 30 to 50% compared to schools that do not implement the programme. And all of this is done in more than 80% of schools, primary schools of the Primorsko-Gorski County. For the fifth year in a row, everything has been financed by the city of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County and yields results. Apply at national level.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50475	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50476	You're telling your colleagues that a society with such a large number of suicides is not a healthy society. I don't know if the health of a society can be measured by the number of suicides of minors. Probably can. But what kind of society we are and what kind of message we send and what conditions these young people live, grow and become violent. They live in some families, and 500 of them lose their jobs a day. Their parents lose their jobs, they don't have shoes tomorrow, I can't buy them pants, the question is, can I feed them? Their parents work, and they don't get paid for their work. In these young people there is a resistance, a natural resistance, and this is a social problem, not a family problem. And that's why, as a society, we have to solve it. Well, we're a society where one Corrade, because of what he was, had an act of general harassing the entire Varazdin for years without the police taking his weapon. It's been known to be violent for years. We're such a company. And we have to make sure that we're that kind of company. We're a society where it's possible to kick someone out of their apartment just because someone else wanted that apartment. We're such a company. Therefore, a social problem that really needs to be approached multidisciplinaryly, and this problem of violence among young people cannot be solved by one protocol or one law. We must, as a society, heal, send different messages, different from the message that the Government is sending today to this assembly by refusing this interpretation, a significantly different message. We need to get serious about this problem, and that's not exactly with the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50477	State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Don't. Don't look so carefully. I have no intention of depriveing my colleague of the replica, but she didn't lift. I watched, I watched. No, don't, I wouldn't. I won't take it back when it's not. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50478	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let me just take a quick look around. So, here we have the interpretation, we have the government's reports. But what I would like to say is I would like to say to be moved by what the respected representative Jerkovic said, that everything here is not written down. And then when we speak, it would really be good if we spoke in good faith to mention the facts that are conveniently mentioned, and some may not stand as some arguments. So let me just say briefly when you mentioned the case of a school where the student died of a beating that doesn't have a psychologist, then accuracy works, I ask you to keep it in mind that the school has a pedagogogal and in the country of Croatia there is not one single primary school or high school that has not at least one professional associate. Many have two, some more depending on size. In this case, the psychologist was approved two years ago. The competition has been called, but unfortunately, my dear colleagues have not heard from anyone. Don't place it like it's now a government mistake that God didn't give anything, she didn't approve. So that's what the fact is. There's something else I need to tell you. How many things aren't written down here, no matter how much they interpret it. I've been a secretary of state for six years, and in difficult situations when something like that happened, I was going to those families to their apartments, to their family homes. Believe it wasn't easy and talked to them, and what's just as important when something like that happens at school, this true god didn't happen at school, but it happened in the park, but these are acquaintances from the class where the student went, and they're from someone else. Well, that's where we talk about prevention. It is not easy for either the secretary of state or any official to go to one department, to another department among students and to talk to them and prevent possible further conflict. It's not easy for our crisis response teams that we have in all the districts that do the same work. So, after this kind of violence, there are even greater dangers. That's what's not written here, colleague Jerkovic, and that's what's done. So there are some things that simply neither we nor the director can influence if there is no action in the middle of a particular frame. And believe that certain frames in some environments don't want to go. We can't just change it so easily, and these situations where our responsibility is concerned, our engagement be assured that they do, but they don't write here because it would be inappropriate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50479	Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50480	Mr. Secretary of State says I misinformed the public and colleagues here in the Parliament, because at school, they were right, but they couldn't find a psychologist. But I said that two years ago a psychologist wasn't in school. The contest of truth was unable to be realized because no one answered, but when they found a psychologist that didn't allow them to hire a psychologist. Well, that's the same story as St. John's school. Matthew from Vishkova, same thing. For four years, they've been looking for a psychologist, and you've been telling them for four years that they can't get a psychologist, but in the last year, you've taken the opportunity to say that it's a ban on employment. So, who's telling the truth?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50481	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50482	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, it's a good thing we've been talking about this subject all day today, and I'm sure there's no one in this assembly who doesn't want to talk about this subject, who's not happy that this topic has been opened. The fact is that violence is totally unacceptable and we all agree on that. A phenomenon that is from bulling in schools to conflict of different subcultures, violence that burdens the entire community, and sociological risk factors are from demographic change, urbanisation, modernisation, to the transition changes that have taken place with us, as is the division of society, so if you want on property layers and all of this suits the development of violence, violent behavior and later perhaps criminal behavior. It is also a fact that many countries face violence among young people and seek answers. That's what we've heard here many times today. Violent behavior cannot be observed unilaterally and cannot resist young people and say they are guilty, we cannot also play ping pong and speak on the relationship parents, professor, parents. Violence is much more complex and springs for a number of reasons. We know that parents, families are most important, that the most responsible, that they can be responsible and also irresponsible, we also know that children are exposed, or young people are exposed today, as you write in your government's introduction to various uncontrolled use of social connections through electronic media, then using the Internet, then using movies and TV shows, but we also have to say that the government is in accordance with its powers and detours... uses a series of measures to prevent and sanction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So right now, on this first, movies and TV shows, there's a new Law on Electronic Media that's very well tried to regulate it. There is no one here who does not agree that this issue should be resolved and that the state should act, that it must provide mechanisms, after they have scheduled a family, possibly family, and today we have talked about a network of kindergartens, schools etc., and we know that they are very important experts, educators, psychologists and without their help is difficult, the state should certainly be involved. We have also listed a number of protocols, laws, working groups, and we all agree that they are welcome, but what we disagree on is the implementation of all these measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted. I think that the other side of the assembly is wrong, because the fact that the fall in recorded crime in 2009 is 11% and that's the fact that we can't get away from numbers, no matter what statistics do dryly, when we're talking about this very important sensitive subject. She's the truth and the fact. The programme of activities to prevent violence among young people is multiple, has affected the fall of criminal acts with elements of violence in children and minors and, as I have already said, a series of strategic documents has been adopted all these years not to repeat it. The Ministry of Science, Education, together with the Croatian School Sports Alliance and with the Education and Education Agency, also implements an action plan to implement the programme of anti-violence education measures in sports, sports competitions and beyond. It is the same when it comes to alcohol consumption and drug experimentation, we must say that our country is at a lower level of average compared to the countries of the European Union. I want to mention here the regulations governing the ban on selling alcohol to minors. According to the State Inspectorate, it is evident that measures are being taken in accordance with both the legal provisions and the Law on Trade, the Law on Measures on the Restriction of Use of Tobacco Products, and the Law on Food Activity, which prohibits the sale of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, people under 18 years of age, and I have heard there today that those provisions are not applicable, is the fact that more than 40,000 controls were carried out by economic inspectors in 2007, 42 thousand controls in 2008 and almost 43 thousand controls in 2009, and according to these controls have been found and infringements of the provisions and sanctions accordingly. In addition, let us not forget the law on making games of happiness that we have recently changed, where it is prohibited and prescribed to visit and participate in betting games is only allowed for minors, who have to prove their identity, then it is prohibited, it is prohibited to receive persons, payments to persons under 18 years of age, and also the strict provisions for granting the right to play games for betting, etc., etc. No ads shall be made on radio and TV shows for children and young people, nor in printed media intended for children and young people. The Family Law is also one of the instruments, an analysis of the impact of the application of the Family Law is under way, a working group is formed that collects data on the application of the Family Law, from competent authorities, courts, welfare centres, professional and scientific institutions, etc. So based on these results of the analysis, the legislative regulations governing family legal protection as well as the current case law will be proposed to remove any doubts in the application of family law. It should also be said that the work of the Committee for the Monitoring and Promotion of the work of the Penal Procedure Body, the enforcement of minor sanctions accompanied by the work of judicial and other bodies and institutions in the area of juvenile crime, means the Commission shall cooperate with competent state bodies, institutions and civil society organisations. Let us not forget that the Family Ministry has proposed 85 projects aimed at prevention of addiction, then it has been established today several times mentioned 17 family centres, carried out continuous education of experts in homes for raising children and youth, etc. The Office of the Advocate's Office for Children was also established, so it said that there was an increase in the number of applications, but that does not mean that there are more criminal or possibly criminal acts, but rather means that public sensitisation has been increased, so that people have also been encouraged to report to the Office of Advocates for Children. As for professional school associates, in kindergartens, which we talked about today, 4005 professional associates were employed in the Republic of Croatia without medical medical staff in kindergartens. We talked about the state pedagogical standard, we brought it in, but by 2012, it needs to be brought in line with these provisions. We hope that the state will be in better shape and that in some ways it will become more flexible, that it will be able to hire new employees during that time and that these schools that have failed will also be able to solve the problem. The fact is that they are unevenly distributed, that there are most in Zagreb, that they are the least available in Lika-Senj County. But also the records of unemployed possible professional associates, means educators, psychologists, defecologists, etc., unfortunately indicate an unbalanced schedule of these people throughout Croatia and they do not want to move from one place to another. There was also a speech this morning about a protocol on the conduct of violence among children where Mrs Opacic said in her opening speech that there was no protocol. The protocol exists, it is printed and I have information that in 2009 there were 3256 procedures in the Republic of Croatia. And those actions have been done exclusively by peer violence described in the definition set out in that Protocol. It also established a methodology for early identification of risk families that we have talked about several times today and, of course, not the most irrelevant cooperation with civil society organisations that is very important. And here I particularly stress the financial support of the family ministry regarding the establishment of youth clubs. And this is primarily about the free time organization. There were speeches by the secretary of state that more important creative projects than projects were preventive. That's for sure we all agree on that. And what the SDP is looking for today in the interpretation, we've heard multiple times, the government has responded systematically and in the tables. And it's either in progress or it's being implemented, all the laws are in force. I don't think anyone's so rude about impelation but simply in progress is what you're asking in your interpretation, and that's why I don't think there's a need for an interpretation. So we are not against having this topic discussed, to improve the situation in the Republic of Croatia, but we are in favour of recognising results and what the Government is doing. And can I just have one more sentence? There is also emotional abuse that includes insulting and mocking others, and abusers aim to gain control of the behavior of others in a way that frees them from their feelings of anger or frustration. And not just young people do that, but some adults do that among us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50483	Thank you. Three replicas. First, Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Shuica, you mentioned various forms of violence. It often happens when a parent fights at school to attack the first teacher, professional service. In this way, he tries to reduce the responsibility of his child, and that is also the responsibility of himself as a parent. Parents don't understand that they're basically the most responsible, that they're the strongest link in that chain of education. They seem to be, at times, as if they've just raised their hands, but they haven't raised their hands because they're getting their hands off their child but they've raised their hands out of power and out of ignorance. They should certainly help. We've heard a lot about the family today, although it's said there's no family in the interpellation. However, there are colleagues and colleagues. We talked about both irresponsible and responsible parents. Also, they both need help. They need help in an educational sense, and those who sin, who are irresponsible, who cannot raise their child responsible should then be punished. You mentioned that the implementation of the same measures made you unsatisfactory. And I can see that most of you are unhappy. So you see the problem that is. You also continued to list everything that was founded from institution to law. But it's, I repeat, form without content. Since many of you are aware of the situation, accept the interpretation. Here's item 5 of our interpretation that actually shows a lot that would help those parents who need to understand and raise responsible children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50485	Replica reply, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50486	I never said at any time that parents don't need help or that parents should eventually be punished. In fact, I've spoken very calmly and quite in a different tone than the one you've replicated to me. So I didn't say I was unhappy. I said I agree on all these elements, however, that we disagree on how to implement them. And I think that there are very substantial legal measures and all possible acts that are of various ministries in force and that it is only a matter of all of us together how we are going to implement these measures. And we also have a responsibility here in Parliament to present to the public what we are talking about today. And it is much more important that we speak calmly, to speak in a way that the public understands that we too are those who want to sensitize the public, and not to raise our feet and use this topic as a topic where we would criticise the government's mainly work and be politically accounted for.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50487	Next replica, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you colleagues that the government has carried out a number of measures and numerous activities that have resulted in the fact that they are so-called. dry data actually showed here that by 11% reduced crime, etc. compared to 2008. But what's most important, what's said and what Mrs. Secretary of State said, therefore, that creative programs are more important than these preventive programs. I would only highlight one program, a creative program, that was implemented in Venezuela. It's about the establishment of an orchestra where literally children from the street have moved away in a way that has given them the instrument in their hands, and these children today have created the world's top orchestra. These children are performing today at the world's finest halls in Vienna, Berlin. So it's their reward, of course, for their work. So, on us, on the whole of society, and from family to school, to the whole social community, it's to find in every individual's inclination, affinity for something creative. For indeed everyone carries it in himself. Or someone for sport, someone for music, someone for painting. So, we should try to find it in a child if it is not just expressing itself to him and in fact what he would like to invest his energy in. So, I'm really disgusted by the way SDP policy through this topic, through this interpretation actually this social problem of violence that happens in society that actually comes down to it being dealt with with by the government whether the government has taken some measure or not to their satisfaction or not. I really think it's below every level. Let's take this seriously, give specific suggestions that will help all of us, no one has anything against it. I would also like to commend the ministry which supports the Centre of Excellence where our young musicians perform throughout Croatia and present what they have learned through schools. And that's one of the ways the ministry is working on this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50489	Replica reply, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50490	You used one segment from your profession. The fact is that 65 thousand teachers and teachers are the same burden, and I believe that they are doing a very valuable and excellent job and are burdened with initiatives in students, i.e. in young creative skills. The fact is that there is no country in the world or possibly in Europe that does not face this problem that we are talking about today. Also, the fact that we have this problem strengthened, given that we have heard today many times that these children are a generation of war and positivity and we have to face that we are specific, that we are from a transition country and that the problems with us are specific. And something else about the uniform programs you were just talking about. Therefore, it is not possible to implement a single educational programme at all levels and in all schools in Croatia because different environments are different conditions. And we also advocate individual access to students. And that is why it is necessary to act as closely as possible with the students individually. But here we really need to solve the problem by 2012, which is to try to have a professional teaching service in all schools and I think we'll solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50491	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50492	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's good regardless of the reason that it's good that we talked about this important issue today, dear colleagues among other things because today we have convinced ourselves how much the government actually makes to reduce this one monster that is planetary, which is not... specific, unfortunately is not a specific instrument of Croatian society. And on the other hand, it is in a certain way that the reason for talking about this important topic and not touching at all what you colleagues have touched, and that is the importance of family. So, in response to what I disagree with and what we don't want. We know that there is no recipe for good neither for happy family, nor can one be trained to be happy in family and to have happy parents and to be happy children in families. However, the fact is that there are almost no rules here and that, in fact, regardless of the level of education, there can be also happy children and responsible children in families who do not have a certain level of education and who are very unhappy with the highest possible education. Therefore, we return to these basic principles of family and to build children and that is the basic thing. I'd only touch the media that you mentioned, I think they're really a big problem, so in terms of the placement of everything that's aggressive among children. And I think that 12 or not, I don't know how many years she shows up on TV is not protective enough for children because she doesn't recognize a grandfather who looks at her or doesn't look at her, but the content is mostly violently followed, and unfortunately because of that similar content that can be found on the Internet, especially different games that literally encourage violence among children. I think there's still a need to prevent and deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50493	Answer to Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50494	Here I agree at the beginning of my presentation I said that the most important parents, or family, and of course we should do everything in the legal sense and in each other to make the family work. But the moment the family doesn't work and the fact is that statistics say that every fifth marriage is questionable in Croatia. In that case, the state needs to act and that is why we all advocate and why the government advocates, adopts measures, laws. And I'm saying it's a very important role for educational staff, and I think schools are really a different family. And here we need to work together and help teachers and improve their status and make them as happy as possible so that they can work on the satisfaction of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50495	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We've talked a lot about this subject today, and I believe we could continue tomorrow. But here you are in some way forcing us from this side to accept this Interpellation on the government's work on the role of government in preventing and combating growing violence, delinquency and crime and risky behaviour between children and young people. I personally could not accept that interpretation at any time, because when you read it, you can immediately conclude certain conclusions and come to this. In fact, we find statistics that are not even accurate in some parts of the text, and the text could not be found to be significant. On a case-by-case basis, the ministry is criticised, the lack of experts, lack of education, and in correcting incorrect allegations, I said that education is continuous, the lack of existing experts that we also saw incorrect, dissatisfaction of the judiciary, the long-term process, which is also incorrect, and at the end of that interpretation, you have a flat-rate conclusion on the government's lack of interest in taking effective and urgent measures. But on the other hand, when you read a government report that's really extensive, which is precisely elaborated, which can give immediate answers to the whole interpretation, then you see all the activities that the government has done and the activities that the government will do in the future. In preventing violence of delinquency and crime and risky behavior between children and young people, an important role, and I would really dare to say the most important role parents play has a family and the role of family and parents is irreplaceable. Just as important the whole of society. One approach is early intervention within the family, parents' education on the development and needs of their children and how to communicate and avoid conflicts, and therefore I really welcome all of your activities from training to combat this anger, how to control it, how to combat the conflicts and these other activities that you have stated. In fact, this interpretation did not mention the importance of the family even though she mentioned in her opening presentation that she did not even participate in writing that interpretation because she later spoke about the role of the family. Violence in the family is very important, and I have already mentioned that during childhood it increases the likelihood of violence in the adolescent age by 40%. Let's not forget the really specificity of not only our families and tradition but also the specificity of this postwar event, I'm talking about the PTSD of our defenders. Do not forget that PTSD also occurs in our children after the same time that they are raised in families already suffering from PTSD. Children are one thing I would dare say is the glinamol that you can shape, which you can especially shape in the family and the whole society, the media in some way participate in it. See only what our parents expose themselves to when their children simply use one small signature on a TV channel to let them go out on that television channel to sing and then make fun of them on that channel and somehow humiliate them. And it can have negative psychological consequences that can ultimately lead to violence. In any case, parents should follow their children, tell them who their real friends are, discuss the content of the Internet and monitor how many children spend time on the Internet, what they do on Facebook, etc. Another mode of action is aimed at changing the behaviour and attitudes of adolescent children within school programs where children are really the most accessible. Yet 65,000 teachers and teachers deal with our children at the time when we are not with them. It is often a day-long stay and if you see them starting in the morning of 8:00 and coming in the afternoon at 9:00 and even if they have any free activities then we really have to thank all our teachers and teachers who invest their time in our children and in some way in their education. And that's why it kind of insults me to this information that violence has increased by 63%. So it's just that when you think about it a little bit better, then you think that every other child is practically violent, to get into one class where 60% of children are fighting and everything is based on this statistical data that you can interpret in different ways. Action is necessary at community level for media campaigns that raise awareness of the problem of violence among young people, reduce their violent messages, etc. It's been mentioned here many times, after all. There are still different programmes, different legislation and social measures that we also spoke of in this civil society. You are talking about the increase in criminal acts and inaction of the Government and the administrative opposite after the growth of 8% of recorded crimes with the elements of violence was recorded in 2008 after the implementation of the programme of activities a drop of 11% of the crimes in 2009 and compared to 2008. At the same time, the proportion of crimes with the elements of violence in the total number of cases detected by minors from 23% in 2007 increased to 26% in 2008 which ratio was recorded in the same percentage and in 2009 so given the numbering indicators, it cannot be claimed that in 2009, there was an escalation of the violent crimes of minors. We have a continuous decline in the total number of juvenile crimes compared to 2007, we have 2009 compared to 2008 we said 11. Following the fall of prosecuted violent crimes, etc. Conclusions in reducing violence are also imposed following an individual review of the violent crimes of minors committed in 2009 which mostly records a decline compared to 2008 which is particularly significant in the crimes of body injury 15% less, severe bodily injury 19% while at the same time the number of crimes of destruction, damages to other people's property and illicit possession of weapons committed by minors in 2008 and 2009 is identical while increases in criminal acts of robbery and robbery are negligible since they relate to a total of eight crimes. So this is another example of how statistics can be misread. On the other hand, regarding alcohol consumption and drug experimentation, the Republic of Croatia is on the lowest average compared to the countries of the European Union and we heard how much control was done for example in 2009. 42 thousand 795. Regarding the length of court proceedings against minors, data from the County Court in Zagreb and the Municipal Criminal Court indicate the inaccuracy of the alleged that 70% of cases are longer than six months. The growth and planned funds for and 17 family centres that we have talked about here are visible, about the number of employees of professional associates who are 4 thousand and 5 and not banned from them, constantly emphasises that it is a ban and you would program how many they should be employed, how many they are employed, etc. It is really too high to list because what the Government of the Republic of Croatia does is to prevent and combat growing violence, delinquency and crime, and the risk of behaviour among children and young people in the ranks is with the measures of other European countries. And finally, we have a colleague who said we in the woods and those in the road and we never meet, and I would say dear colleagues we must meet not at the announcement of an organized gathering mentioned by fellow Stazic but rather on the contrary at the implementation of the strategy, the programme, the implementation of the laws passed and all in order to fight the violence of all forms. This interpretation and your conclusions can be found in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50497	Thank you. Four replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50498	You're telling your colleagues that she's forcing you to accept this interpretation. No, no one is forcing you like no one can ever be forced to act responsibly or reasonably. you and your decisions how you will act. What is required by this interpretation? Four reports from the government. If it hadn't been for this interpretation, we wouldn't be discussing this problem today, and who knows if we would have discussed it if we had ever, for you and for this government. And I think that this four report, not that it should come to this Assembly for this interpretation, but every six months that we should get reports every six months to discuss this problem because it's an important problem. If we don't do that, if you continue to refuse to discuss it just because the SDP suggests it, then reject your will, but then don't be surprised when your parents of those murdered children are self-organizing. Don't be surprised because it'll be their only chance to impose their problem on politics, and you're as political as I am here. They force politics to finally turn their heads to them, see what happens to them and try to help them. Don't make excuses to the public for your behavior today. You've shown yourself, not in front of me, so I know what you're like, in front of those parents of those murdered children. You showed them your true face.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50499	Replication response. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50500	My friend, you can't force me to look for it, of course, but from your ranks it was directed. I told you that children are like clay, like clay, which you can model and which at the expense of what they see, at the expense of even the Internet, facebooks, families and even debates in the Croatian Parliament can create their views. You're looking for conclusions with this interpretation, and I'm going to tell you one of those conclusions. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose within 15 days concrete measures to combat violence among young people in society and to establish the following activities. Like what? establishing a methodology and procedure for early identification of risk families or children. That's what you have on page 15 if you read it. Designing programs in the local community for children and young people, free activities, creatively spending free time in a wider range of choices and examples of surveillance. That's what you have on page 15. On page 16, you have a connection, action and cooperation of part of the state administration with civil society organisations, etc., etc. This interpretation is a really clean failure because this government has shown, I don't think you've ever seen a better report on the work of suppressing violence among children than the one she sent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50501	Next replica. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50502	It's gonna be a good report, and crime is all over the streets, and it's the most dangerous one. You tell your colleagues how statistics can be manipulated. It is doubtless that in 2008, he expanded juvenile crime. You're saying that after the measures were taken, 11% fell. But I don't know if you're following the daily paper that every little bit reports about the most brutal ways and therefore not just the amount, maybe it's an even smaller number, how many of these ways of killings, muggings, violence in a way that's almost ritually caused attention, scandalizing the public. The way they were committed where strong criminal will, cruelty, impedience suggest that there is a big problem with us in the conflict of individuals and society, that we have a society that is completely in anemia and that's a big problem. Our schools long ago they no longer bear the title of education and you often even insisted on it as everything... Freedom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Schools must act primarily and primarily educationally, even more than in this educational sense. You're saying that all professors do a hard job, that's a fact, and I agree with you. A teacher - neglecting society has ignored both its present and its future. That's the foundation, that's right, the position of a teacher today. But unfortunately, not all teachers are like that. Well, we're listening to shows this morning that some of us are doing business, a piece of work, which is a bribe to get from. There are these and unfortunately people who often run such institutions, run such schools. That's a big problem, too. And what my colleague Stazic is saying, which is a great danger to us that people, as you can't see, have started to take justice into their own hands. There's no more faith in institutions. People started to take justice into their own hands, not only in this problem where they announce organized gathering and action on other issues and labour rights, but you don't see it. You won't be able to stop them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50503	Replication response. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50504	My colleague, by your performance, I dare say you are simply challenging and inciting aggression. Your performance. So the kids are watching you on TV, so ask the kids what they think of your performance. Well, they'd rather slap you in the face when they hear you. ... But I'm sorry, it's not the subject of this debate. It's neither Zadar or anyone else's. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't even say in the debate about teachers who act rudely. So you have to be awe-inspiring to look at these people, 65,000 teachers and professors, 65. You point out a few examples, a few examples, and invite them to rise. So where would they rise, where, why would they rise? Well, I feel for all those children who have been so hurt, but it can also be broken down as a doctor to not know how many items that have led to and how such results and deaths have occurred. As far as statistics are concerned, it was you who stated in your interpretation that there was a terrible, drastic increase of 67% in 2007. You forgot to mention that the Ombudsman opened offices in both Rijeka and Split and Osijek, and that statistics have only just started to be purchased and that this government has made people aware and that such cases are being reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50505	And Madam Representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50506	My colleague Caparin twice even said that children are clay and claymol that can be modeled. Please, Mrs. Caparin, don't use such expressions here. So it's really an archaic medieval almost I'd say approach to education and education. Please consult on children's rights. They're not children of any clay or of any clay. I'm really sorry to have to hear it here. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50507	Ma'am, that's metaphorically said. I know you're very dry, but it's not dry for you to say your name and last name, it's not beneath your honor to talk all day about the names of those children, it's not beneath your honor to talk about coffins to get chilly, and glinamol bothers you. You don't have a child, but with a child, if you do, you can do miracles, I'm telling you, as with clay, you can make a particular figure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50508	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Caparin, you said one sentence that moved me to replicate. We all need to get involved in solving this problem of family, institution. We're all on board. After this debate today, did we ask our colleagues and colleagues if we were involved in the right way with such behaviour, conduct such as colleague Antičević? What message did we send to young people today? Act so intolerant, insult yourself, if you have to fight. So we do it every day in this assembly of colleagues and colleagues. Let's remember eight days ago the actual clock and those verbal attacks. You know what was on the train Sisak – Zagreb the day after, I traveled. The children need to build a workshop on intolerance. You know who was an example of two students travelling on the road to the Sisak – Zagreb high school students. We're in the Parliament. We in the Parliament encouraged them to take us as an example of intolerance and verbal violence. Isn't that violence, too? So let's face it, we send messages from this assembly every day, and today we're supposed to send a positive message, that we're all working together to solve the problem, not attack each other. And now here at 6:30, my colleague Antičević, you were yelling, yelling, attacking. Well, that's not the key. The key to the problem is how to find a solution and admit that institutions work. I know it's hard to admit that institutions, ministries and schools are doing something, but we have to admit it to our colleagues. Because the data they're saying, I'm not going to read from this opinion and colleague Caparin just read it nicely, gave you the answers to your interpretation. My colleagues, you've analyzed your interpretation well and you've said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50510	All right, all right. Replicate response, Madame Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50511	My colleague, I'd like to point out. In the family, there is one value system, however we view it, which we carry on to children. But I'm warning you, and there's one value system in society, there's one value system in this House, and that system might be an example of that tolerance. I read in this report that anger control training is being conducted. Well, I'm asking you to spend that training at the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50512	Ms. Representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50513	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I would not like to repeat what my colleagues and colleagues said during the day, and I will look only at a few details first of all from the report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the interpretation of SDP representatives. First of all, on page two of the interpellation reports, we actually see that, as I have already said in the replica to my colleague Susani Bilić Vardić, the government has in some way shared responsibility between parents and the media in this way, exempting itself from any responsibility for the problem we are talking about today. This is personal for me and for us at the SDP club is certainly unacceptable because we believe that the problem of violence of delinquency, the crime of risky behaviour between children and young people is certainly a problem that should be solved not at family level, not at media level or just at media level. But certainly at the level of state bodies, it means ministries and other institutions related to children and young people. In a way, the Government is teaching children how to distinguish the real world from cyber life, so even in English, cyber world or cyber life, real friends from on-line friends, monitor the use of computers, not keep it in the nursery. This is quite unrealistic to expect, because today as far as we know and also the commitment of this government is a country of knowledge and computer to everyone, so I don't understand how it turns out on one occasion now that children don't need to buy computers and that they don't need to be used. I also find it completely unclear why and unacceptable why this report apostrophysed the negative role of electronic media in such a way that it is written that they are a challenge but above all a danger. So it's amazing to me that the government is trying to take off its responsibility for the obvious indemnification of everything that was to be done over the past few years at the eradication of this evil that is happening to us. We will, of course, have a very quick opportunity in the Croatian Parliament to discuss the report on the implementation of programming principles in the operation of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, so we will also be able to discuss what is the role of the public media and what is their responsibility, and I believe that this Croatian Parliament and its parliamentary majority certainly have a great responsibility there, because it is unfortunately obstructing the selection of the 11th member, or members of the HRT Council, and in any case, the situation on Croatian broadcasting and the achievement of all the programming principles that this public television has drawn into question. So, I'm not sure that only parents and media are problematic, so when it comes to the issue of violence between children and young people. And so I find this kind of government discourse in the report unacceptable. I agree, therefore, that the behavior of children and young people mirrored relationships in society. Of course, we have also heard so many times today that in our post-transitional, post-war society that still has an extremely large amount of trauma and frustration problems are certainly great and problems must certainly affect children and young people. So to these generations that grow up in conditions of uncertainty, which in some ways, unfortunately, mimic what they see happening. So they see that the trend, that is, that violence has become some legitimate form or legitimate answer to the problems they face. That is why I believe that the Croatian government and certain state institutions, meaning the Advocate General and all others, so the Government's institutions are extremely responsible, it is extremely important that they act coherently, it is extremely important that we avoid the transfer of the ball from one ministry to another, that is, it is extremely important that we find common language when it comes to this issue. In any case, I do not think that the problems of domestic violence, violence between children and young people, violence in stadiums will solve an invisible hand, that it is the responsibility of individuals, and that things will be resolved on their own, so I am sure that my position is shared by all who, therefore, are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of whether they are parents or not who regularly settle and pay taxes to this country and then, of course, expect that they take care in this regard and for security on the streets and for therefore good and quality education, and in that sense I certainly consider education and education in which one segment of course needs to be invested even more financial resources, so that it would not happen in some parts of the Republic of Croatia, for example. in the counties listed here as Ličko-senjska and Virovitičko-podravska there are fewer experts, i.e. professional associates in primary schools compared to some others let's call it richer or more financially powerful therefore Croatian regions. I am sure that it is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide uniform regional development, even regional development, because therefore our children, citizens and citizens in these two counties have also contributed to the state budget and it is certain that they expect a certain level, a certain standard, both in education and in any other respect, of the funds that they allocate. I would also like to emphasise, therefore, that there are certain laws, therefore a legal legislative framework, but I would also like to note that there is certainly much more that can and must be done right in the segment of education and, above all, from those small ones, so from small legs and in that sense, I am also sure that, regardless of what kindergartens and preschool education fall under the jurisdiction of local and regional self-government units, there must be a will to help those units of local and regional self-government that are not financially potent enough. Finally, I would just like to repeat what we have pointed out several times, and what we have warned about is that in the school system, therefore, education should be introduced into the programmes, even subjects such as education for democracy and human rights, to encourage different forms of debate, so face-to-face, reasoned interactions and certainly what some colleagues and said today, so to increase the font of art, music and physical education classes in primary schools, and certainly it is important and ensure that there are no activities in the school premises that have no connection with children, so in some way priority for the use of space in schools for extracurricular activities just having children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50514	Thank you. One correction, three replicas. Correction, Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50515	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect allegation of colleague Leakovic that the government has transferred responsibility to parents and the media and has called for this to be written on the second page of the response that the government has addressed to the interpretation of the Social Democratic Party's Club of Representatives. My colleague, Leakovic, that's not true. Perhaps if you had started reading the interpretation earlier, not only you but most of the speakers who participated in this debate today might have been in another direction, and it is true that you failed to talk about the influence of the media in your interpretation and in your discussions to advocate that the media other than the black chronicle show and contribute to the positive achievements of young people and those who work for young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50516	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50517	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Leakovic is also almost fascinating to me that fixation of the government and ruling for the role of the media, the Internet, the cyber world, and I don't know what not, almost pathological fixation, when we all know that the real problem and the real causes of the problem are in the real world, in our hard lead daily life. I'd like to read something from this report. It says that the development of violent behavior is unrelentingly influenced by the production of films and TV shows with destructive, immoral content or content that is contrary to family educational values and family or community relations in terms that are available to children. I agree. What are TV shows with destructive and immoral content? That's, say, the news during the day we're watching, that's, say, a diary here's the evening diary. There, let's say, we watch day-to-day strikes of workers who did their job and didn't get paid. Where you'll be more immoral than that. Then let's say that criminals commit crimes after two or three months again. Where you're going to send more immoral and destructive content and message that we're just sending these young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50518	Next replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50519	Thank you very much. Well, it seems to me that fellow Leakovic that you have a little minorized the role of the media in your debate, but the role of the media in forming a system of values for every man, every individual and public perception of certain events and phenomena is unquestionable. On the parent committee when discussing this subject, I asked two MPs and two MPs when they mentioned these terrible murders of young people, and I asked if they knew the name and name of the killer. Everyone answered no. Do they know the name and last name of those murderers' parents? Everyone answered no. That's the same problem. In the media, very often violent people show up in a very nice light, even those proven abusers and minors are invited to various shows, as to God’s great top experts, and also very often when reports of murders are reported we usually hear that these murderers are otherwise very peaceful, good neighbors, peaceful, honest people and they don’t know what happened to them. So the role of the media is very important in all of this. Sometimes people in prisons have been tortured and threatened to talk to them, and today they're struggling with content on TV and you're going to want some goods or you're going to want some evil or you're going to even want to kill and kill like they do in movies and cartoons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50520	And Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50521	Comrade Caroline, I think that your debate that has given the accent exactly to the government's responsibility in the education system has shown essentially the main solution to this problem. However, what to say in that situation. My parents are coming, she's got three high school kids, the government has suspended the subsidisation of travel, lives around Zadar. He says, one child can, for the other I'll kind of starve, but the third child I can't send to high school, I don't have to travel, I don't have to. And he's in trouble now that a child, the three of whom have three children of his children to deny high school education. The government is now talking about a whole series of measures, since the law is in force that minors or by a certain age cannot be alone after 11 o'clock in the evening. That law was a dead letter on paper, but in light of this interpretation, there was a raid last night. So tomorrow, the government will boast that here's all the worry it lays on the application of a law that protects minors. What was boredom? The government says he's not responsible, he's not responsible for this situation. That it happens on its own. Well, that's incomprehensible, and that's why the government rejects this proposal that you have now particularly apostrophe and I've been talking about for years. The government has always promised to raise, a special subject for education for democracy and rights. Well, it seems that this government really doesn't need citizens who are aware of their rights, but also of their responsibilities and responsibilities. There's no responsibility. And that's what the young people see, because the government has, it has declared itself pre-priority, irresponsible for everything that happens, and responsible for everything. So the government's representatives are happy to take pictures with our successful athletes, and this problem is denied. It's not theirs. Well, that's really amazing. I think it's precisely from learning from young people, teaching children to have rights, and having responsibilities. That it's simply connected, that it connects with each other. But the government could start by itself, but there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's It's still the HDZ government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50522	Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50523	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. After a few kilometers of spoken sentences about this topic today here in the assembly and a slightly less length of subjective argument that has been made here, let me say a few sentences too. So, this debate in the Parliament that is now open is the need for SDP representatives to warn by interpellation of the growing phenomenon of violence among young people. Based on the reports not only of the competent authorities but also of the profession which lately, I must admit, systematically, loudly and clearly warns that the social pathology of this type becomes a metastasizing disease of our society. You know for yourself that almost every interpretation and every legal initiative addressed to the Parliament from the ranks of the opposition is mostly welcomed with the goal of taking away the essential message from the ruling ones. Because based on your thinking, gentlemen, it's supposed to get into the strategy that's drawn up, or strategy. Although the results of these strategies, in particular in this case about the subject we discussed today, do not show any particular effectiveness. I say, special efficiency. This interpretation offers only, if its content is realistically reflected, a stronger dynamic for the resolution of violence among young people, and in my opinion it does not violate the concept framework of the government's strategy towards this issue. Since it offers to accelerate the dynamics of interoperability, I see no reason not to accept this interpretation. But what, then, will the basis of the so far spoken face for rejection? You gentlemen claim the scope of the actions the government has taken, especially in prevention, gives satisfactory results. It doesn't matter what reality, especially professional, indicates that the problem of violence among young people in expansion is daily and at the breadth of what we consider to be a deviation from orderly, social behavior, but also by the intensity of acts that can qualify as legal terminology as criminal. Thus, reality shows that actions taken by the government to address violence among young people do not give the expected results. The rejection of this interpretation, ladies and gentlemen in power, is your desire to protect some of your truths. The truth that measured your assessment of reality that you will ultimately defend by arguments of the number of hands raised. It is your right and a democratic model to solve problems, but it offers ultimately design, not a change in the quality of material. What does this interpretation actually contain? First, the acceleration of the diagnosis of violence among young people as a result of the social environment. People usually say that violence causes violence, hence aggression and violence as phenomenal, so they can say freely, and the stalking forms of social behavior provide a good basis for the development of violence among young people. I believe that none of you believe that these forms of behavior among young people are the product of hereditary factors. It is proposed to accelerate below 2 and prevent actions that will be more effective in curbing violence among young people with a particular emphasis on prevention. A comprehensive and rapid approach to this problem requires, of course, such organisational solutions and financial support that must be unequivocal and realistic. So the speed in which violence among young people bites the fabric of society requires a quick reaction to preserve the future as much as a healthy society. Gentlemen, whether we want to admit it or not, it is a startling amount of aggression that young people face because of the most banal causes of their peers, fighting to the beating, unfortunately killing. Cruelty and insensitiveness translated into a form of common violence becomes part of everyday life. That's the problem with all of us because violence doesn't happen somewhere else, but to us. So there's nothing controversial about accepting if you go through the logic of the arguments. It's more valuable to listen to the profession. Let's say Dr. Zlatka Milish is a person I believe is a relevant factor in the fundamental evaluations of violence among young people in these relations. He says, "Violence has become a lifestyle, fun, and more and more rewards. The state must decide whether our priority is roads and bridges or our priority to build roads, of course, metaphorically destroyed bridges among generations. Let's create a vision programme for young Croatia." On 9 March of this year, gentlemen, 15 days before the arrival of this interpretation for the parliamentary debate, Professor Milisa invites the public and the relevant to engage strongly in the fight against violence among young people by offering solutions that do not suffer a delay. You can see that in this problem lately and the professional public, so if you watched the last show "The Face of the Nation" Branimir Bilić was dedicated to this problem. All of what I've said here tonight and the basis of the expressions, and on that show, I believe that this interpretation has the elements to be accepted, because this social pathology needs to be reduced as soon as possible and as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50524	Thank you. State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50525	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank all MPs and MPs for this discussion, a good discussion sometimes and a harsh half-life, but it should also be said that the Government and all the relevant authorities of the state administration are aware of the fact that violence exists between children and young people, in accordance with their work and competences, have taken a number of measures to sanction and prevent them. In this sense, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is taking systematic measures as can be seen and in response to the Government of the Republic of Croatia here you have it on the benches now. Some SDP MPs say there are no protocols on the conduct of violence between children and young people. You know that's not true. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity have made not only a protocol, but also a programme of activities to prevent violence between children and young people. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, together with the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, developed a National Strategy for Prevention of Disabilities in the behaviour of children and young people from 2009 to 2012. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted in June of last year a programme of activities to prevent violence among young people on the initiative of then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Then many of me remember from the SDP asking how we could make such a good program in such short time that it gives such good results. And indeed, this programme gives excellent results as well as all other activities led by the then vice-president of today's Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, is a fight against violence against women. It means to contribute to children, young people and especially to the maternity and parental support that is voted in the Croatian Parliament. The SDP also... critics. He says that reduced funds target children and young people by 27 million. You're right on your own. It's not 27 million, and you can also see by the government's respective response that the total funds for this purpose are increased, not only are they reduced. Is that one ministry has reduced, two ministries have increased those funds. And in total terms, that's an increase in those funds. The CNS spoke of an increase in violence in educational institutions. According to the D.A.'s Office for Children, I must immediately say that the increase in violence in educational institutions does not indicate at all the number of individual applications of the D.A.'s Office for Children, but indicates that the state has built a system. So I repeat that the state has built a system that allows for an increased number of applications, as well as the sensitisation of the general public to the phenomenon of violence between children and young people. As for the identification of the youth risk group. I have to let you know you probably know, many may not know that family centres are working on it right now, they're determining somewhere they've already identified the risk groups of young people. The matter changes daily because it is necessary to work daily in municipalities, cities, and counties. And it's done in all the family centers he's got now, as you know 17. Mr. Cain says the government has delivered what I like very much, one detailed, contentive, excellent report. That's what he said at the pay phone. I agree with that, but I would just like to add that the government is sending all such reports professionally and professionally here to this High House. He also mentioned the number of births that are now 45, actually last year there were 45 thousand 807 born, and that there were 53 thousand dead. It's no problem for me to say so in the dead. We always have between 51 and 52.5 thousand that die in a year. However, the problem is in the living. You know that in 2003 there were only 39,000 children born, and that thanks to the national... the policy that this government made with Mrs. Jadranka Kosor was actually leading, that every year there was an increase in the number of newborn children from one thousand to two. So now we've come from 39 grand to 45 grand. We hope in a few years we'll get into a situation where we'll be threatening the number of dead, which is actually our goal. Also, SDP MPs have indicated that in 70% of cases, the length of court proceedings against minors is longer than 6 months. You know that is not true and according to the Court of County in Zagreb and the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb, these data indicate the inaccuracy of the allegations, that in 70% of cases the length of court proceedings against minors is longer than 6 months. Minister Tomislav Ivić explained this in detail in the opening speech and gave you accurate information that I am not wasting yours and my time now. And as for prevention programmes for youth prevention and violence for 2009 family centres mentioned here work very hard, they work round tables for parents and professional staff in educational and educational groups, civil society organisations and social care centres on the subject, let's say, "Let's prevent violence among young people". It's one of the activities. They have workshops on the subject of "non-violent conflict resolution for young people". The family centre of the Krapina-Zagorska County is a front and other centres do not lag behind much. It also implements programmes that will allow young people to spend quality free time. I'm just counting on not to say it in more detail. So they implement preventive professional, social, pedagogical programmes with young people and risky behavior. Furthermore, programmes of preventive professional and social, pedagogical work aimed at parents of young riskful behaviour. So that's what this is about, all the family centers have been assigned and they're doing it with full capacity so it's not exactly information that doesn't work because it's been done there, it's done really hard, it's done professionally, and it's done 24 hours a day. Also, many family center workers go to seminars to educate themselves in this sense because the problem is changing every day. Those thesiss that were twenty, thirty, forty years old, something new is always happening, and there is always something new to be adopted to be there in front of everyone else or at least not to be lag behind. They are working to sensitize the public for the purpose of preventing violence among young people. They also make alternative approaches to minor offenders, which is very important and very important. And they're also developing, it's not true that for the first time now we've developed some multidisciplinary system in some elements, here they are already doing it regularly, the multidisciplinary system by re-advising minors, also bringing certain protocols in that sense. Consistent implementation of the night outs of young people in accordance with the provisions of the Family Law by the Ministry of Interior. We have seen some problems here, so at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, we have established an expert working group that will, on professional grounds with all the experts we have in Croatia today, see what the situation is like here and very soon, we will take concrete measures that this is specifically about article 95 when minors cannot be outside after 23 hours to 5 o'clock in the morning without an adult or with permission from parents accompanied by an adult but in some elements, they are in violation. But the police here are doing their job very zealously and we've got just as good, you know, at least we're not happy until the end, and that's why we're changing that. We're not blind, we know what to change, and we change it right now or whatever the Zagori would say, but we're changing, and we're constantly adjusting to be ahead of everyone else. As for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, here is the secretary of state, the secretary of state they also award the "Luka Ritz" annual award in order to promote tolerance and school without violence. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports also organises a conference on the prevention of violence between young people and children... and many other things they don't do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the important things there was mentioned that inhumane conditions were in prison and that it was somehow bad for these minors. I have to say that the Turopolje Educational Institute provides minors and the Educational Institute in Požega underage, and in both homes, the number of minors or minors who are deprived of liberty do not exceed the intended capacity because they are situated in these appropriate conditions, etc., I could read a lot more here, there are hundreds and thousands of activities that are carried out daily, and these are simply documents and facts that we have to respect. As regards activities to prevent violence among young people, the activities of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and other competent ministries, here are only our ministry from 2006 to 2009 funded about thirty youth clubs for youth prevention programmes each year, so far it has meant more than 5 million kuna and according to the Office for Associations of the Government of Croatia in 2008 and 2009 total for these prevention programmes among young people, but look, these are not just programs to give them money to work with what they want so we don't know. That is precisely, when money is given precisely, it is asked of them financially and narratively to know exactly what they have done. If it doesn't happen to be made, we're looking for money back and they have a certain responsibility or next year's funding because they've been working badly, and that's how we encourage them to function well from year to year. So for this purpose, for the eighth and ninth years, all the bodies of the state administration that observe this target group mean young and children singled out a total of 14 million and 500 thousand kuna programmes. We also encourage the implementation of the Law on Young People’s Tips. Look, this House of the High has passed this Law on the advice of young people, but where is the responsibility? It is the responsibility of local self-government that cities, municipalities and counties establish these advices for young people and that they function there. We have this in 13 county councils of 48 urban, 55 municipal, which is more compared to the eighth year and we are not satisfied with it and we want it to be more. Maybe there's a lack of sanctions for local authorities, let's say the mayors, mayors and mayors or those people that they see that it's a serious thing that they have to set up because there's no sanctions in that law because we thought it was a normal thing, that everyone would implement it. So it's not just the state that has to work. There are other institutions that must also carry out their task. Some do well, some do little less good, but our common goal is to lead to perfection. I could tell you a lot more about it, but here I am just going to finish up and say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has responded to this interpretation that you sent here, so you say... You see, unfortunately for you, the data is not such that it is an increasing violence, but it is violence in stagnation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're not running away from violence, but we have effective measures to stop it and in some way prevent it, and in that report, it's, in the best possible professional and professional way, based on documents and the fact that the government has substantiated here. That answer clearly shows that we have provided answers to all your questions. I think your questions were about 17. We've answered all the questions, but as you can almost see in any of your questions, you don't read the exact information to the government. I don't know why it's like that, but you just put up with it. In this sense, I propose, finally, that this House rejects the Interpol on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50526	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50527	Mr. Secretary of State, this enthusiasm of yours has been made and the finding is done fiercely and professionally now I am not correcting myself, correcting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I was on Facebook a little while ago. Citizens, especially parents, who report to the audience, have been appalled by the government's refusal to do so. For HDZ representatives, they only have one sentence: "A shame can be them.".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50528	Comrade Stazic, this is not a correction to the incorrect quote, this is one offensive regret and remark again. ... Yeah, it's just an offensive remark so much that I give you a reminder of what I'm going to do with pleasure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't say that. You're being contacted by citizens, and that's now credible solid evidence. On behalf of the promoter, final review by Ms. Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this day-to-day debate on SDP, or the promoter of the most important topic, I had to admit that in this debate we will all start off from the same starting points of view that the problem of violence among young people is an extremely big problem. I'm sorry it's not like that. I'm sorry we could hear today that this interpretation was a failure, that it was unnecessary, but well, you have the right to think so, but you're wrong. And today's irresponsibility will surely return as a boomerang and it always does. By refusing to intervene, the government shows that it does not recognise that violence and crime and delinquency and the risky behavior of young people today is a social problem that we do not have an adequate answer to at this time. The government also refuses its own responsibility for the current situation by refusing this interpretation, and the government is responsible because those who have in their hands the power and the instruments to change things and do not do so are responsible for the existing situation. And silence on violence and ignoring violence is also violence because you don't do anything, and having the power to change things is like legalizing violence. The government, which has been ignoring SDP's request for six months to discuss this issue in the Parliament and to bring concrete, urgent concrete measures and conclusions, is not aware of the problem we have in society. The government that has been ignoring a comprehensive lawyer's report on children, which has for years pointed to a violation of children's rights, is irresponsible to its own future. The government that believes that social workers are not needed in schools and that the number of psychologists and educators that we have at this point in educational institutions is enough to be responsible for the current situation. The government that saves on children and young people, and we saw that it did this in 2009 in the budget, so for 2009 alone, it reduced 11 million kuna for preventive programmes. The government that can refer to the Parliament a report on the measures taken that removes guilt and responsibility from itself and says that the problem is not as big as the SDP is trying to show because statistics show that roses are flowering because you imagine violence was 4% less than in schools last year, and our percentages are slightly less than the European average, such as the Government or doesn't understand or care, and the result is the same. No colleagues and colleagues from the SDP claimed or no one denied today in discussions on the existence of a number of strategies and protocols and programmes and plans, but we wanted to open a debate on their evaluation. We wanted to open a debate on their purpose, we wanted to open a debate on the results of these strategies, protocols, etc. They do. We wanted to determine who and why these strategies are not implemented, who ignores them, who violates them. We wanted to know if anyone was monitoring the implementation and effectiveness of all these powerful strategies and programmes, because if they follow, then you should know that those who should implement these strategies at local level can't do this more often because they are not teamed up in human beings, or organisationally, or professionally, and even less financially. In fact, there seems to be no real desire or political will to put an end to certain phenomena in society, and it proves this debate today in which some simply cannot accept the facts. And the fact is that we have been brought into a situation of escalating violence, in a situation of alcohol consumption at an ever younger age, in a situation of drug consumption in a younger age, in a situation of increasing child suicide, in an increase in child abuse, neglect of children, in an increase in the number of children with behavioral disorders and mental difficulties. And that is why we, colleagues and colleagues, do not need statistics to be aware of this, to be aware of the reality that exists today on Croatian roads and in Croatian schools. We are all together every day, as long as we are, witnessing increasingly brutal and brutal violence between and against children because it is too long a list of pointless deaths and brutal murders. What does the victim mean to a child the favorable statistics you have been so cordially referring to here today? I'm telling you, they don't mean anything to them or their parents or their closest families. It is more than clear that this problem cannot be solved overnight. We didn't say that at any point, nor did we think that, and all of us, absolutely all the elements of society need to make a contribution. In the SDP, we believe that this is possible through one systematic and coordinated action to combat the source of violence. That's what we advocate. We advocate changing the system of values because it is more than clear that today violence has become a social and socially acceptable way of life, modus operandi and modus vivendi today in Croatian society. That is the truth and inspiration for violence, young people get exactly from those who should be their role models. So, more than clearly and we advocate it, and we advocate that it is necessary to build a new system of values that will be based on mutual respect, tolerance, non-violence and solidarity. Another important thing to do is to establish an entire system that will be implemented from kindergarten to work, since it is not enough to work for a single period of man’s life or a young person’s life or in kindergarten or school alone. It's very important that it be a continuous process. The third thing, it's extremely important to connect the elements into the system. My colleagues and colleagues, it would be hypocritical to say, and I won't do it if no element of the system doesn't work. That wouldn't be true, and I won't say it. However, the fact is that some institutions are state-owned, some are county-owned, some are city-funded from different sources, all engaged in related activities. What we are warning about and what we are drawing attention to and we believe that this role of government is extremely, extremely important, and that is to connect all those who are dealing with this problem. Well, today we had a chance from the secretary of state to hear that she was pleased with this interpretation, if anything, because some things would finally come together and that everyone would finally know everything. If there's nothing else we've done with this interpretation, then we're glad we at least did it. The fourth thing is very important to strengthen the local community institute. That's what I'm gonna end up with. In 2002, we started decentralisation and unfortunately stopped. Eight years late in social care reform, we don't follow the needs of children. The institutions that were to be networked have not been networked and children do not receive specific protection of an appropriate type of problem. If we had continued to reform social care, I am convinced that today we would not have a problem to this extent that we have. So we in the SDP hold that all these elements are long-term important to produce results. Ignoring colleagues and colleagues, ignoring problems can be fatal especially when it comes to children. And therefore, regardless of the government's refusal to take responsibility, if the consequences of this debate today are steps, activities that will lead to a better functioning, a better functioning of the system, then the fact that you rejected this interpretation is completely irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50530	Thank you. Four corrections. First female representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegation: "The government denies the existence of a problem of violence among young people." My colleagues, Jerkovic, are not expecting anything else, but it's simply not true. After a full day's debate, you continue to insist on what you wrote in your interpretation. You've determined that the government refuses to interpret. The government rejects the data that you've presented in the interpretation incorrectly, tendedly and selectively chosen, which corresponds only to you, but not to the truth. And the third incorrect allegation of the government is irresponsible. After all we had the opportunity to hear today, so I will even thank you for what you've put up with, because in this way both the government and the parliamentary majority have been given the opportunity to say what the government is doing to improve the situation in this area, and on you is the responsibility of the Social Democratic Party to call violence among young people, to call violence on the street and time will show who is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50532	And Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in her exposé, she said the government took the blame off itself, nothing does, so it tolerates violence. No, mate, that's not true. The government in my opinion, I know that the truth hurts, told the truth everything it does and answered part by piece, point at point at point at your interpretation that is incorrect with a series of incorrect data. Secondly, there is no government desire to put an end to the problem. Well, you're the only one who wants to do this impelation, my colleague, and that's incorrect to say that the government is not doing anything. Unfortunately, this debate that should have been very important and instructive for young people, for the whole society as Mr. Stazic said to me, has turned into your politics. So give your colleagues to your club to discuss violence. I'm in this replica, and we're the mirror of society, and we're being violent. Tell your colleague Stazić that the HDZ club doesn't have to leave the assembly when he speaks, because when he rises, he pours hate. You know what the young say? I'll tell you the same thing he said. Young people say, so how long are we going to listen to such hatred?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50534	Thank you. Mr. Representative Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who corrected more of these allegations, but fellow Members Jerkovic you said that the government is irresponsible, does not admit that there is this problem, ignores it and does nothing. Well, I really think that's every correction too much. But we heard, the government is very aware, we heard today with arguments that seem not to tell all the data from defecologists, psychologists and those percentages. I don't know what percentage would satisfy you to say in that part. I believe no one. But when you finally say it escalates alcoholism and drug abuse. Well, please, it's you who advocate the legalization of easy drugs, so whoever's here is irresponsible, I don't want to use any other word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50536	And Madam Representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50537	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleague, Jerkovic, who said the government is irresponsible. My colleagues, that's not true. The government has shown its responsibility by adopting many documents that regulate this area, by monitoring and implementing the same, but also by the results that are here when children are concerned and violence among children means they are never good enough. And you have shown your responsibility, you of the SDP, by preparing the interpretation on incorrect and selective data that we have been correcting in the assembly all morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50538	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a discussion of the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts concerning the conclusion of the first amendment and the addition of the Treaty on Interrelationships relating to the INA oil industry d.d. and the main gas business contract with the strategic partner MOL Hungarian oil and gas plc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-24-0.u50539	We move to a vote on the points of the agenda, which are crossed. First, the Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in preventing and combating growing violence, delinquency, crime and risky behaviour among children and young people, the applicant of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Assembly Committee and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in preventing and combating growing violence, delinquency, crime and risky behaviour among children and young people." Let's please get involved and vote on a proposal from the board and the government. Score. This proposal by the Assembly Committee and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was accepted by most votes, 78 votes in favour, no abstentions and 31 against.
