ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here I was the other day, same on a similar theme. In fact, the Ministry of the Interior has stepped up activities in recent years to initiate bilateral agreements with other countries' ministries, particularly countries from the region, Europe and the European Union, but also other non-European countries with which there is an interest in contracting, since there are certain specificities about common interest in the fight against the most serious forms of crime. One of these countries with which the common interest in the signing of such a bilateral agreement is also the State of Israel and, therefore, Minister Karamarko signed an agreement on 16 September 2009, with which the police of the Republic of Croatia and the State of Israel will receive another significant legal framework for better, more effective and effective cooperation in the fight against crime in the territories of the Republic of Croatia and the State of Israel, as well as all other forms of international crime regardless of the country of origin and the country of crime. Here, I believe that this law confirming this agreement will be another contribution to strengthening the efficiency of the Ministry of Interior in the fight against international crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46178	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, internal policy, justice? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46179	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime, one in a series of international agreements concluded by the Republic of Croatia with other countries in order to promote and deepen mutual cooperation in the fight against crime. International co-operation is widely known as one of the main factors in the successful fight against organised crime. As a result, the execution of this Treaty will also have a certain impact on the security of the Republic of Croatia. Although the Republic of Croatia also has its representatives in Interpol, Europol and the Regional Centre for Combating Organized Crime are welcome to continue exchanging experiences with countries in the region and the European Union as well as with other countries willing to contribute to the fight against organised crime. And this contract with Israel, the Republic of Croatia contributes to international co-operation and the development of effective resources necessary to deal with the problem of organised crime. In the context of cooperation, both countries undertake to cooperate in the prevention, repression and punishment of serious crimes, and in particular organised crime, particularly in the field of crimes against life and bodies, crimes related to the production and illicit trafficking of intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances, etc., trafficking of human beings, including illegal migration and trafficking of human beings, sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, criminal activities related to terrorism, extortion of money, theft, illegal trafficking and trafficking of weapons, ammunition, explosives and other dangerous substances, counterfeiting, criminal acts in the field of economic and financial activities, crimes against property such as theft and illicit trafficking of art, etc. So a whole series of crimes covered by this agreement. The cooperation provides for the exchange of police experts and the possibility of sending liaison officers to the relevant embassies, with diplomatic status allocated. Cooperation is also foreseen in the exchange of experiences in the use of forensic technology and resources. In particular, the treatment of classified data is defined. The conditions to be respected for the purpose of the protection of personal data exchanged within the framework of cooperation are also laid down. This Treaty is also an element of further improvement and deepening mutual cooperation between the two countries and contributes to the continuation of the consolidation and development of the friendly relations between the Republic of Croatia and the countries of Israel. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46180	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for understanding, and since you've been in this situation for a while, I understand you understand me. Yeah? The proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime with the Final Proposal of the Law will certainly be adopted by the HDSSB in its vote. There is no law proposal, I could not say much debate, because in all articles it is also said in relation to the objectives of the adoption of this law and of the agreement with the State of Israel and of what comes from this bill. It is clear to all of us that the state of Israel is a geographically Middle Eastern state, we all understand that this area as well as ours is to say the extended Balkan route is passing and there is a great deal of criminal mileage and criminal activity going on. That is why I have applied for this debate to say that I particularly welcome, and I am particularly pleased that Article 3 indicates the criminal offences in which the parties will, therefore, cooperate in the fight against the production and illicit trafficking of intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors. Then trafficking in human beings, then criminal acts related to terrorism. We are also aware of this last sentence, so the criminal acts related to terrorism are very well known, and it may not be so insignificant that both the Republic of Croatia and the State of Israel sign this agreement in view of developments, so global political, global political situations and the emergence of terrorism in the country of Israel and the whole of the Middle East. Then, given some other knowledge, it is important that this Article 3 states will therefore fight against theft, illegal trafficking in arms, ammunition, explosives, and other dangerous substances. I don't think it should stress the importance of this item, and also the geopolitical status of both countries. Other serious crimes listed here are clearly not to be spoken of because they are listed and because in this Article the third law is in fact everything, all serious crimes are and affected. The article therefore includes money laundering as well as illicit trade in works of art or historical objects. Article 5 of both parties in this Treaty, hence both the State of Israel and the Republic of Croatia, said they could refer liaison officers providing advice and assistance. It is also important to stress that the Croatian Israeli Joint Committee is being established to monitor the implementation of this Treaty. All in all, when the articles of this contract, i.e. the contract proposal, and when seen in Article 10, are actually used, this information, which is served by liaison officers, to which the information provided by one party as a sender or sender to each other serves. In that case, and when it comes to the confidentiality of information, both parties should be informed of each other of the results of these knowledge received, so after receiving these knowledge and written documents. I say HDSSB's club, given what I've said, so it's also about importance and to say a certain type and internal security, and also about geostrategic, geopolitical position and one state and another that I don't continue to be longer, the HDSB Club will accept this proposal for a law confirming the contract between Israel and Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46182	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46183	Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of this proposal for a law confirming the treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime establishes a legal framework for mutual cooperation between the two states in the fight against crime. This proposal for a law regulates matters relating to the area and way of cooperation of Contracting Parties in this area. In the relations between the two countries, a number of bilateral agreements have been concluded, which have come from common and specific interests, legally organised a whole series of areas of cooperation of interest to both countries. International co-operation is essential for an effective and effective fight against all forms of crime. Therefore, the importance and need of international cooperation in the fight against crime is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia as well as the deepening of cooperation in this area with the State of Israel. The objective of mutual cooperation that will be achieved through this Treaty is to provide mutual assistance and to coordinate action in the fight against all forms of crime. As a result, the action in this area shall be governed by a bilateral agreement. I believe that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to complete all procedures as soon as possible for the entry into force of the contract between the two countries, as this would create all legal conditions for the effective implementation of all forms of cooperation provided for in this Treaty. An increase in international crime, an increase in abuse and illicit drug trafficking around the world gives more weight to this contract between Croatia and Israel. By adopting this Proposal for a Treaty Confirmation Act, the two countries will cooperate with each other in preventing, detecting and punishing serious criminal offences in the areas envisaged and set out in this Treaty in accordance with the national laws of their countries. In the context of cooperation in the area covered by this contract between the competent authorities of the two countries, police experts may be exchanged. Each Contracting Party may forward to another liaison officer who will be deployed in the relevant embassies, with diplomatic status assigned. The aim of the liaison officers is to improve cooperation, in particular by providing assistance in the form of exchanges of information and the purpose of preventive and repressive fight against crime. Liaison officers provide advice and assistance, they do not have the authority to carry out police measures on their own, as well as other similar agreements and agreements between the states and these are provided that any party may refuse to cooperate in cases which may endanger its sovereignty, security or national interests. I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't take the deal. I believe that both countries have the interest and need of mutual cooperation in the fight against crime, so I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46184	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46185	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia and the state of Israel have concluded several bilateral agreements that legally regulate the entire range of cooperation areas of interest for both countries. For the purpose of mutual cooperation which will be realised on the basis of this Treaty, the provision of mutual assistance and the improvement of efficiency and coordination of action in the fight against all forms of crime, and therefore there is a need to take action in this area by means of a bilateral agreement. This provision between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Israel, with cooperation in the fight against crime, establishes a legal framework for the mutual co-operation of the two countries in the field of the fight against crime, which specifically implies mutual cooperation in the prevention, repression and punishment of serious criminal offences in the areas of a particular contract. In particular, it should be stressed that by realising this contract, the State will cooperate and assist each other in preventing illicit drug trafficking,... substances, and substances used in their illicit production, as recognised by the applicable laws of both countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In connection with this party will seek to exchange information on the details regarding the illicit use of drug trafficking and... the substances and the ways to combat them, coordinate the activities of their relevant services dealing with the prevention of abuse and illicit drug trafficking, and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the substances, as well as the criminal offences arising from them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will share its knowledge, experience and encourage each other to study and research in the field of prevention of existing methods, organisational structures related to prevention and the fight against drug use. In order to monitor the implementation of this Treaty, the Croatian-Israeli Joint Committee shall also be established by representatives of both Contracting Parties who will meet as appropriate, upon request by any of the Contracting Parties in exchange in Zagreb and Jerusalem. The Croatian-Israeli Joint Committee is responsible for coordinating the activities provided for in this Treaty and may include experts when necessary... the competent authorities responsible for the implementation of this contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I believe that just the cooperation between the two states on the prevention of drug distribution is the most important part of this contract, and for that reason, but also for the other above, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46186	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46187	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In addition to principled support, in fact, for any agreement aimed at improving police and any other cooperation in the fight against crime, I would highlight something important, especially when it comes to the state of Israel. It's this very long time, actually, non-resolvement of this situation that we didn't have this kind of agreement that's only important to me, because that's where the concept was supposed to be. Well, don't mind, Vice President, there's no problem. It's better if it's a cheerful atmosphere, so it's no problem for me. What's important, it's a state that has always used a little and specific method in its operation, so my experience has it that we've actually had many times a situation that some things without this agreement couldn't be realized, and you know very well that they unfortunately because of their environment, and even the actions outside have been forced, I won't say now, using something others don't do, but in Israel, the fact that they have to protect each of their own football, handball, or any other crew with special police officers, has led you to be aware of how much they are exposed to dangerous situations and threats themselves. On the other hand, every contract and every kind of contract like this is two-sided. That means you're giving something, on the other hand you'll get some information for it. And it is not without reason that it is important for Croatia, I will now look at the part that is important to us, which is that we have had a lot of things that have happened in both the government and the state of Israel, and have been of interest to the Republic of Croatia, without getting into details for understandable reasons, I think that also hiding certain persons there, and hiding funds etc. At least the police level will be settled. Why do I mention that police level? In fact, we all know how problems with international legal aid look, how much to do and how much to do, and that only after the court proceedings are you in a position to get to some things. As far as the police are concerned, the existence of such contracts can, in fact, be relatively easy for the police to obtain information that can be the basis for the initiation of the procedure. I just wanted to point out that it is particularly important, and for this reason I welcome exactly the state of Israel to conclude such an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46188	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46189	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I would like to join this debate because I think this Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Israel, in cooperation in the fight against organised crime, deserves our attention and deserves our full support. For a whole series of reasons, I want to talk about it. First of all, the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Israel in cooperation in the fight against crime is the result of a common desire to promote and deepen mutual cooperation in the fight against crime. It is also a good element and a good foundation for improving and deepening overall mutual cooperation between the two countries. Prevention, repression and punishment of serious crimes is a very important common interest, it is part of the overall security policy not only of the Republic of Croatia but of a whole series of international organisations. I want to highlight some parts of this contract. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 1. It is clear that the relevant parties to this contract will cooperate and assist each other in preventing illicit trafficking, in particular intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances and substances used in their illicit production. This cooperation between Israel and the Republic of Croatia is of particular importance if it is seen in the context of Mediterranean cooperation. If one is looking at the broader geopolitical content of Israel's positions, Israel's responsibility for security and the prevention of illegal trade in the Mediterranean Sea, but also at the same time the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia and all institutions to minimise the corruption of borders on illegal trade across the Adriatic Sea. This co-operation between Israel and the Republic of Croatia offers to the Ministry of Interior a large one, I might even say, may seem to be an exaggeration, uncanny possibility in terms of adopting new knowledge, adopting new technologies, modernising, equipping, improving procedures and all that is important in order for this cooperation to be in the interest not only of the two states but also of the wider international community. Control of the blue border or so-called blue border. integrated supervision of the "blue Border" is a very important responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and within the framework of the European Integrations, and I think that this bilateral cooperation with Israel of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Interior can give a special dimension and special strength. The vulnerability of borders through the sea is still extremely high and depends on the quality of capacity and organisation and our institutions not only as an interest in the Republic of Croatia but as an interest in a wider European security space. A significant part of Afghan drugs goes through these areas. The Balkan route, estimated to be worth 500m to 600m euros annually, deserves special attention. The specificity of Israel in terms of ability, I reiterate, organisational, technological equipment and co-operation is a great opportunity for the Ministry of the Interior, and this opportunity should be used in the best possible way. I said geopolitical position, technology, technical ability, organizational capabilities of Israeli institutions, intelligence, situational analysis, the ability of institutions to understand what is happening in the area beyond the borders of individual countries in terms of illegal trade in order to make prevention as effective as possible. I will say and remember well one visit to the Ministry of Defense almost 15 years ago to Israel. In this presentation at first slide there was a small state, which seeks its strength, finds, achieves and achieves knowledge, science, technology. The challenge for the Republic of Croatia and in a broader context, especially in the context of this cooperation. Certainly from my personal conversations with various Israeli experts in different areas, I noticed the exceptional openness and ability of an open partnership. The Ministry of the Interior should be aware of the implementation of this contract because, as I have said and stressed and I repeat, it offers no opportunity. We have a whole series of similar contracts that we consume by automation, but we must certainly be aware and able to recognize where we can learn something, where we can be more capable, better quality, smarter through this type of bilateral cooperation because it is a process of maturing and strengthening the ability and competitiveness of not only state institutions but states as a whole. Preventing and opposing organised international crime is not just a security and political task. In this context, as I said, it can also be a task and a challenge for the adoption of new knowledge and technology and for cooperation with our Ministry of Science. The fight against terrorism that Israel has a very important role to play deserves special attention. Trade, arms trafficking, ammunition, explosives is certainly part of our responsibilities under a whole series of international contracts, but in any case Israel represents a state that has I would say perhaps the best insight and control of all these processes. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 5. There is good, excellent cooperation between liaison officers, between individual institutions and parts of the Ministry of the Interior and through processes of education, training, etc. For all these reasons, Article 7 also clearly defines the objective that needs to be institutionally and organisationally strengthened through the relevant Croatian-Israeli Joint Committee, which will be composed of representatives of both Contracting Parties and which will meet, if necessary, upon request by either Party. The experience of using forensic technology is certainly common interest. For all these reasons, I would say this is a very important bill that offers significant opportunities and capabilities to improve the quality of the Ministry of the Interior with regard to opposing organised crime in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and in the interest of the process of integration of the Republic of Croatia into European defence and security architecture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46190	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46191	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 495. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 108 votes for, 2 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46192	Next item - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other types of serious criminal offences, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 496 Proposer Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security and Justice. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46193	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here is, unlike this previous law, which requires the confirmation of a police cooperation agreement with the state of Israel here, the confirmation of the Agreement with the Republic of Moldova, means with the country of our neighbourhood, from the immediate surroundings. And what MP Cosic and MP Ostojic said about the agreement with Israel having even political weight, given the significant role of the State of Israel in security policy in the region. This Agreement with the Republic of Moldova is one of the agreements that are specific to an agreement with a country that is very often a country of origin, different forms of crime, which either ends in the Republic of Croatia or is in a transit relationship with the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of the Interior has monitored and detected the forms of crime that relate to the Republic of Moldova, and therefore this Agreement has concentrated on those crimes and forms of crime most closely linked to the Republic of Moldova as a country or transit or as a country of origin of these different forms of crime. These are primarily illegal cultivation, production, procurement, distribution, import and export, transport of intoxicating drugs, then illegal production, procurement, holding, export of arms, counterfeiting of money, illegal financial activities, crimes against life, health, freedom, human dignity, human rights, human trafficking, pimping and illegal immigration. These are the forms of crime that are most characteristic and which can be associated with Mulder either as a country of criminal transit, or as a country of origin of these forms of crime. And we therefore believe that this Agreement will be a very effective weapon of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia, in the prevention and prevention of these forms of crime coming from the State of origin or from the country of transit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46194	Thank you very much. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Club HDZ Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46195	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other types of serious crimes. It is also a continuation of international agreements aimed at providing mutual assistance, increasing efficiency and coordinating action in the fight against organised and serious crime as well as in the fight against terrorism. In the Relations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, this Agreement constitutes an element of further improvement and deepening of the mutual cooperation of these two countries and contributes to the continuation of consolidation and development of friendly relations. The Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Moldova make the Treaty aware of the increase in international organised crime, drug abuse and the increase in the illicit trafficking of opiates around the world. It is particularly important to combine efforts to combat terrorism and it is known that the Republic of Croatia is involved in major international instruments to combat international terrorism as well as in the fight against all forms of international organised crime. It also contributed to international peace missions and organisations in the Republic of Croatia's efforts to stabilise crisis areas from which crime of all kinds is overrun. The Republic of Croatia has so far ratified all 12 UN conventions and protocols that are treated as an internationalally real basis for the fight against terrorism. Recognizing the seriousness of the threat of international crime and terrorism to global security as well as the national security of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to act coherently with the international community through the United Nations, the European Union, NATO, and countries close to us, and countries across Europe and the world. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova agreed to cooperate almost all forms of crime. The secretary of state listed those most dangerous and not to repeat them in all areas. Contracting Parties undertake to cooperate in the prevention and detection and investigation of criminal offences in accordance with national law of their countries. The security level of confidentiality of the exchanged data has also been defined for the purpose of the protection of personal data. The adoption of this Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia will be another contribution from both countries to the fight against all forms of crime, especially in the fight against organised crime. The HDZ Club will therefore support this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46196	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go. Mr. Representative Niko Rebić, twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46197	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of this proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in drugs, terrorism and other types of serious criminal offences establishes a legal framework for the mutual cooperation of the two countries in the fight against organised crime. The proposal also addresses issues relating to the area and how the parties’ cooperation in the area. It should be noted that, compared to the two countries, a whole series of bilateral contracts have been concluded which have come from common specific interests legally regulated a whole series of areas of interest for both parties. The importance and need of international cooperation in the fight against organised and serious crime is in the interest of our countries and the Republic of Orleans and in the field of cooperation on this. The aim of mutual cooperation is to provide mutual assistance, and to increase the effectiveness and coordination of action in the fight against organised and serious crime, which is why there is a need to act in this area of contract offices. Starting with a common desire for more effective cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia in the fight against organised crime, illegal trafficking in drugs, terrorism and other types of serious crimes. If we have and know the fact that the internal legal procedure for the entry into force of this Agreement has already been completed in the Republic of Moldova, I am of the opinion that there is an interest in the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible to end all procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement, and thus to create legal conditions for the effective implementation of all forms of cooperation provided for in this Agreement. The agreement is the result of two countries' knowledge of the increase in international organised crime by increasing drug abuse, as well as an increase in illegal trade at the international level. Convinced of the real importance of international cooperation in the fight against all forms of organised crime, by adopting this Agreement, the two countries will cooperate with each other in preventing, detecting and correcting crimes related to abroad, in accordance with national legislation of their countries. The Agreement also provides that any State may, in part or in full, refuse to request assistance or cooperation, if it considers that the fulfilment of the same State may jeopardise the security of the State or if it would be contrary to national legislation. All in all, I believe that both states have the interest and need of mutual cooperation in countering organised and serious crime, so I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46198	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46199	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other types of serious criminal offences is a result of a common desire to promote and deepen mutual cooperation in this area. Given the great importance and need of mutual cooperation in the fight against organised and serious crime, the Republic of Croatia is in the interest of deepening cooperation with the Republic of Moldova and providing mutual assistance to improve the effectiveness and coordination of action in the fight against this type of crime. In accordance with national legislation of their countries, countries will cooperate in preventing, detecting and investigating criminal offences related to abroad. Cooperation will be carried out in particular with regard to criminal acts of international organised crime, illegal cultivation and production, procurement, holding, distribution, import or transport of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances and their recursors, the poison of illicit trade with them, and all types of aid provision. Unlawful financial activities, economic crime, law enforcement obtained by criminal acts against life, health, freedom, human trafficking and illegal trafficking in human organs and tissues, and pimping, illegal migration and illegal residence of persons and related criminal activities, crimes committed against objects of cultural historical value, car theft, crimes against the environment, criminal offences against intellectual property, computer crime and corruption. We are all witnessing that the Republic of Croatia is a transit area for specific forms of crime, and in particular I would like to highlight human trafficking and illegal trafficking in human organs and tissues, as well as pimping as illegal production of procurement, holding, import, export, transport and illegal trafficking in arms, radioactive nuclear materials, goods and technologies of strategic importance, and military technology. Given that most of these are tailored to the countries of the former Soviet Union, it is important to confirm this international treaty in order to prevent the spread of crime as much as possible and effectively cut off its transition routes. That's why I'm going to accept the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46200	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46201	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we are actually talking about an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government, as we have already heard it is actually the result of a common desire to promote and deepen mutual cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illegal drug trafficking and the fight against terrorism as well as other types of serious crimes. It certainly contributes to the continuation of the consolidation and development of the friendly relations between these two countries. The objective of mutual cooperation and extending mutual assistance to improve efficiency in the fight against organised and serious crime, so there is a need for this area to be regulated by a bilateral agreement. The Republic of Moldova has already completed an internal legal procedure for the entry into force of this Agreement. The government of Croatia and Lucius are aware of the rise in international organised crime as they are concerned by the increase in drug abuse, they have decided to join their efforts to combat terrorism and measures for its real importance international cooperation in the fight against dangerous forms of crime, which is what the agreement is actually talking about. It is also necessary to say, of course, that the parties will cooperate in accordance with national legislation and that this cooperation will take place particularly in connection with acts of international crime, illegal breeding, holding, distribution, import, export and transport of intoxicated drugs, poisons, illegal trade, terrorism and extremism, racial intolerance and xenophobia, illegal production, holding and trading of weapons, ammunition, radioactive nuclear materials, counterfeiting of money, postal marks and securities, official documents, etc. In any event, it is necessary to highlight the prevention of law enforcement obtained by criminal acts, economic crime, crimes against life, health, freedom, human dignity, property, human trafficking and illegal trafficking in human organs and tissues, pimping, crimes committed against objects of cultural and historical value, car theft, crimes against the environment, intellectual property, computer crime, corruption, etc. Contracting parties will cooperate in a way that will exchange information on persons, planned terrorist actions, search for suspects, missing persons, co-operation in implementing measures based on witness protection programmes, in search of stolen items, including groups and cases for ongoing investigation. Here are all the reasons why we should not repeat it, but what we have heard earlier through individual debates of fellow MPs. I will certainly support this proposal for an agreement, a law of agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Moldova.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46202	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46203	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. In addition to supporting the confirmation of the agreement and about the Republic of Orleans, I would only like one thing in this debate in some way in the best way to actually implement the things that are prescribed, for which we always support such agreements and that is the question of liaison officers. In fact, in a situation where the Croatian Parliament and also the Moldovan parliament adopt such an agreement, it should then be brought to life or come to life. My experience is precisely that the most important situation of the contact point is in the image of the liaison officer, that much more can be done with such agreements in the situation if there are persons and this cannot be a cost. It is an investment in protection against organised crime, especially in this situation as the routes have completely changed. Neither is the Balkan route the way it was, nor is it more Ukrainian in this way organised. Therefore, all these changes I think are most important to solve in place and that it is very important that the Ministry of the Interior has liaison officers as their help here can be extremely important. And I repeat, it's not a cost, it's an investment in fighting organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46204	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46205	We move on to the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other types of serious criminal offences, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 496. Proposer of the Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on this bill and please let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted unanimously with 111 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46206	We're going to the next point. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on production, distribution and supply of thermal energy, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 497 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, economy, local self-government, spatial planning and construction. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Ruđer Friganovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46207	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. At the very beginning, as an introduction to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy with the final draft of the law, I would like to remind you briefly of the history of legislation in the Croatian energy sector. Since July 2001, the reform of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia began when, with the Energy Act, the first package of these energy laws included the Law on the Market for Electricity, the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, the Law on the Gas Market and the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities. These first laws set up a basic legislative framework for the restructuring, reorganisation of the energy sector, the opening of energy markets and the regulation of energy activities, and the reform includes restructuring of energy subjects and the creation of a new legislative and institutional framework, the establishment of market rules, public service obligations and the separation of energy activities to market and regulated. Energy legislation is certainly one of the most important segments on the Croatian path towards membership in the European Union, which includes the obligation to adapt to European energy legislation and standards of organisation of the internal European market. All this led to the necessary further problems of Croatian energy legislation so that in late 2004, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act, the Law on the electricity market and the new Law on energy regulation were adopted. The production, distribution and supply of thermal energy was for the first time regulated in 2005 by a special law that was uniquely regulated by the thermal sector, which until then was part of the Law on the Communal Economy. Furthermore, the new Gas Market Act is adopted during 2007. In 2008, amendments and additions to the Energy Act, the Law on the electricity market and the Law on the gas market are being adopted, and with changes it continues in 2009. The increasingly open energy market in the Republic of Croatia requires timely changes to the legislative framework allowing energy activities to be carried out in accordance with market rules or regulated conditions. The basic reason for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy stems from the need for full compliance with the new Law on concessions entered into force on 1 January 2009. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy establishes a uniform, transparent and non-discriminatory and efficient legal framework for concessions for the distribution of heat energy and for concessions for the construction of energy distribution facilities for heat energy. The most important change is that this law introduces two types of concessions. One concession for the distribution of heat energy is as a concession for public services within the meaning of the Law on concessions while another concession for the construction of energy facilities for the distribution of heat energy as a concession for public works within the meaning of the Law on concessions. Furthermore, it is determined that when selecting the most favourable offers, the following criteria are used on the basis of which the concession provider chooses the most favourable offer. These are the quality of works and equipment, the estimated annual amount of concession fee, the total price, the technical achievement offered, aesthetic, functional and ecological characteristics, planned operational costs, economics, management, control and management of the plant and maintenance of energy facilities, the timetable for carrying out works and the ability to achieve concessions. In addition to the above, a tariff system for energy production and heat supply services is introduced which regulates the business of those energy operators in which there is no distribution of heat energy. Finally, I would like to highlight the reason for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy by an urgent procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Article 159(1) of the urgent procedure lays down a law which removes major disturbances in the economy as a result of the current non-compliant legislation in force. And two important reasons for the urgency of the procedure. The first is, as we have already said, the need for full compliance with the Law on concessions, and the second reason is that all economic operators are thus equalised to the conditions of business, namely not to have a parallelism system. This Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Production and Distribution of Heat Energy Supply introduces the basic provisions of modern concession legislation governing uniform elements at the level of the overall system, thus achieving greater efficiency, transparency and facilitating the application of users. We keep all of the above justified reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46208	Thank you. Committee legislation, economy, local, regional self-government, spatial planning and planning, construction? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Agent Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Certainly observed from the economic point of view of energy and the infrastructure sector which systematically explores, benefits and commercial products and supplies all consumer types to all available types of energy at an economically acceptable price. Energy is also set up as perhaps the most important infrastructure sector since the high correlation coefficient exists between energy and the overall development of a country. As far as the Croatian energy sector is concerned, the dominant part is organised in two large systems, the INA Oil and HEP Industry, Croatia's electricity industry. The HEP system includes production of electricity in hydropower plants and thermal power plants and transmissions of system management and distribution of electricity to end-users. According to an official report by HEP on business for 2008 the activity of the thermal industry that is now here has achieved a loss from operations of nearly 182 million kuna. And compared to 2007 the loss increased by 80 million kuna due to a sharp rise in energy fuel prices. As the main result of such results, the government has not yet approved a request for an increase in the price of heat that has not been changed since 2004, although, in the meantime, fuel prices have increased significantly. In December of last year, however, the government granted an additional contract with the majority INA owner, Hungary's MOL, by an additional contract with the majority owner of INA, which allowed gas collection of 33 limes per cubic metre. It is estimated that it will immediately collect electricity by about 7% and heat by as much as 25%. It should not be doubted that, as usual, when they collect gas and electricity, the purchases of other products and services will follow. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA is responsible for issuing permits to carry out energy activities and a total of 13 licences for electricity activities and 29 permits for the activity of trade, intervention or representation on the energy market have been issued by 31.12.2007. The total energy consumption in Croatia in 2007 was, for example, increased by 1.7% compared to the previous year's consumption achieved. As for renewable energy sources, although they have a very high growth rate, their share was only 0.17%. The plan is to reduce the share of liquid fuels to 36% by 2030 and increase the share of renewable sources to 6.7 and biomass by 5.5. In terms of the world, the Croatian energy sector represents a very small part of the world economy with only about 0.5% of production and 0.1 consumption of the world. It should be pointed out that from the total energy consumption only between 55 and 60% of energy is available to direct consumption i.e. end-users in order to meet energy needs, while the rest is waste on losses in transformations, fuel consumption and losses in transport and distribution. In the early 1990s, Croatia experienced a decrease in energy consumption due to war circumstances, but since 1995 total energy consumption has been growing and such a trend is expected in the future. According to the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, the availability of energy and its corresponding offer constitute a fundamental prerequisite for sustainable and continuous economic growth. Although there is a trend in reducing energy consumption needed to produce gross social product units, we are still spending significantly more than the European average. In view of the less reaching of the Republic of Croatia in relation to other countries in the field of cogeneration and energy efficiency, it is good that during the discussions on the Committees on this proposal, the importance of obliging concessionaires to implement environmental protection measures and energy efficiency measures is highlighted. The main starting points in the further development of infrastructure are strengthening market mechanisms in the construction and use of infrastructure, a modern infrastructure management system based on information technology and a sustainable system of financing for its construction and maintenance. The recent government decision, which was held at the meeting on 23 December of last year, did not contribute to this in any way to the Regulation amending the Regulation on compensation for the promotion of electricity production from renewable energy sources and cogeneration. This regulation reduced the compensation for renewable energy sources and cogeneration. Interesting forecasts refer to the dependence of the Croatian economy on increasing energy prices on the world market. In general, the application of different models concludes that a 10% increase in energy prices would cause between 1.5 and 2.5 declines in gross social product in Croatia. Speaking of the world, I think it is worth mentioning that the essential elements of the European Union's energy policy measures are, therefore, the environment to which we seek, reducing energy consumption wherever possible, diversification of energy sources, setting up a neat internal energy market and controlling external procurement by building a strategic partnership with supplier countries. The most important directive on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable sources is a directive that is affirmatively set towards strengthening the consumption of electricity from renewable sources and calls for a global target on consumption. 22.1% should be produced from renewable sources in 2010, so this one. Predicting Croatia's future from an energy aspect, it is necessary to first compare indicators of 15 and 12 new members. Total energy consumption per capita in the EU 15 is surrounded by 4 units, and in new members it means 12, 2.65. So every resident of the old members is supported by 1.5 times more energy than the inhabitants of the new members. If a gradual homogenisation of the economic situation within the entire European Union is to be achieved, new members must develop more rapidly than the old members. Therefore, we do not need to compare in Croatia with the development efforts of the entire European Union. We're too far away from them. Our total energy consumption in 2005 was about two units, so only about 75% of that same data for 12 new members of the European Union, and even 50% of the same information for the old members of the European Union. So, and directly used energy, our resident is supported by about 90% of what the average citizen of the new members of the European Union has. It is already mentioned that the high correlation coefficient between the energy of a country's development, which is a relative level of energy consumption actually reflects the level of development. The trend in the world is for countries to meet their energy demand with economically and environmentally acceptable conditions. As a result, there is a tendency to reduce energy consumption per unit of production in the world, i.e. The growth of total consumption is slower than the growth of total energy production. Although the most developed countries save most energy per unit of production, they are due to the volumes of their own economies and the largest energy consumers. 10 main consumers participate with around 64% of global energy consumption. As far as the manufacturer's concerned, the situation is similar. Ten major producers hold about 61% of world production. Let's get back to the bill. Part of the law that is not clear is found in the 13th article, which refers to monetary concessions. The third paragraph states that the cash reward for the concession is determined as a variable amount of revenue the concessionary plans to achieve by restoring the energy activities of production, distribution and supply of heat according to the offer which forms an integral part of the concession contract for the year in which it starts to carry out the energy activity of the distribution of heat energy. Moreover, as regards penalties for breach of the provisions of this bill, it appears that too many potential infringements enter together with defined penalties from 10000 to 50,000 kuna, and that a slightly more thorough classification would not be a waste. The basic question to be asked regarding the award of the concession is the following. Who will invest in energy plants and network systems? Is this going to be done by local self-government or is it due to be done by a concessionary? If the law does not determine that the concessionaire is obliged to invest in energy plants and network systems, no concessionaire in the future will do so, and local self-government will, of course, have no money for it. So maintenance and modernisation will fall on the burden of citizens, and the concessionary will use the facilities and the network for years and earn money. The fee the concessionaire will pay to the local self-government is symbolic and there is nothing she can do about the cheaper supply of heat energy. It might be good to use, in terms of the transition period for which this law should be calculated, the experience we have with gas adaptation, or not to be in a hurry to apply the law because it can indeed produce great dysfunctionalities in the distribution and supply of heat energy because it can easily happen that it is an existing system which of course is not good really leads to real collapse. Because, of course, it is necessary to adapt the legislation to the regulations and directives of the European Union as soon as possible, but at this moment, the state of warmth is far away so that it may be able to quickly withstand the changes that are suggested by this legislation. What we fear most is that the final burden of quick application of this legislation will fall on the burden of citizens. But of course, there are additional problems in Croatia that I would also like to say. In any case, I think the bill is satisfactory, but we will be able to assess its true value only when it is complemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation on the amount and manner of payment of compensation within six months, i.e. the tariff system which HERA has an obligation to bring within one year after the adoption of this bill. What I would also like to say on this occasion is that today's debate and the opportunity to talk about the link between the business policy of public enterprises and the ruling policy in this country, a policy that has a crucial impact on the behaviour of public enterprises. Therefore, I received special attention from the following paragraphs in the light of this proposal. I quote: "Because the energy market in the Republic of Croatia is increasingly opening up in which the process of all factors from the buyer of energy subjects to the competent state institutions should be held accountable for the duties and responsibilities prescribed by the positive regulations as well" I quote: "a uniform, transparent, non-discriminatory and efficient legal framework for concessions, for the distribution of heat energy and concessions for the construction of energy facilities for the distribution of heat energy in the Republic of Croatia will be established. All these principles of colleagues and colleagues have been violated when we talk about the responsibility of HEP concessionaires to users in the City of Velika Gorica. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 19 December 2008 to the citizens of Velika Gorica as of 1 January last year, the price of the supply of heat was increased by 48% and in reality between 100 and 120%, which significantly exceeded the limits of their economic endurance. HEP delivers heat energy to the citizens of Velika Gorica for more than 20 years, using over 13 heats using different energies, gas, lubricating oil. Unfortunately, citizens have no idea how much and what energy the HEP has already to be trusted, and this way of delivering heat opens up the possibility for various forms of malversion, and we are all witnessing what has happened and what is still happening in state-owned enterprises. All attempts to communicate with the leading people of HEP Heat, the Price Monitoring Committee and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have not produced results. Despite the 2005 concessionaires' positive reaction, let's say when he agreed to hold the two-stage assembly at that time, the same proposal was now rejected at the time of the galloping of the financial crisis. Simply, the concessionaire was under pressure from individuals from the government because the local elections were too close and their political interest was clear. Local self-government leaders were to be accused of heating troubles and promised that changing government in local elections would make everything boom and that heating bills would be returned to normal. Of course that didn't happen, but the public-business pressure project has played its part. Of course, this is not a lonely case in Croatia. There are so many examples that public enterprises are being used as an instrument of pressure on political competitors in local environments where government is lost. Sibenik is just the latest example. As a result of the structure of the people of public enterprises who have recently been going through the process of determining the responsibility of the heads of the HEP Toplinship, they obviously have the protection of a better positioned member of the government than former HAC and HZ leaders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46210	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here are just a few sentences on this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on production and distribution and supply of thermal energy. When we talk about this topic, we cannot skip what is most interesting to Croatian citizens at this point when we talk about heat energy, and that is, above all, that this year is expected to collect heat from 15.7% and said, that is, at the end of the last year, up to 48% as is the case in Velika Gorica. This specifically means, as I come from the City of Zagreb, I am a representative here in the City of Zagreb, in Zagreb every family at the annual level of heating supplied with heat from, in the distribution of heat, will pay 5 hundred kuna more than it paid the previous year. To Zagreb, though, is a gathering somewhere at 15% level, you can imagine how much it stands in cities where it will be up to three times as much. So about a thousand and a half kuna more than it's been in recent years. It is another blow to the standard of Croatian citizens and it is good to tell what is happening. The answer is very simple. It has collected energy prices, hep said, heat is 33 lipa per cubic metre. Who picked up the price? It collected the price of "INA" d.d. as a gas distributor, and she collected the price because the Croatian government did not take over from 1 January 2010 gas business, but delayed it until 1 December 2010, and therefore came into contact in addition to the INA contract allowed the collection of gas from 33 June. As if it had not accumulated gas because of the Croatian government, it had raised the price of INA. I think that in companies such as INA, where we gave all management rights for 47% of the ownership, the Croatian Government should not have gone to meet INA and allowed this collection on the burden of Croatian citizens. Absolutely in case we wanted to avoid this gathering, the Croatian Government was to secure and take over the gas business from 1 January 2010, or perhaps it would be a more effective measure towards the economy than what we experienced yesterday, where the government will be providing guarantees, and yet it will not give up the kuna. So in this particular case, the government could take this cost of this collection on itself and thus help Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy. Of course she didn't do it. But that's why she did it to sign a contract with MOL where she gives full ownership of INA based on only 47% of the property within the company. She also did that she bought a warehouse.../The speaker did not understand more./... for 500 million kuna, instead of INA building a new gas storage facility where in some way they would have an additional reserve for possibly the winter when there would be gas shortages, and she did so in the end to tolerate the INA's tax debts that amount to several billion kunas, and on the other hand Croatian citizens must pay their debt very quickly, the executions come from the tax administration. So here we see another consequence of me insufficient concern for Croatian citizens, and of course it is because it is a energy that is very important to industry, insufficient care for the Croatian economy. As far as the law is concerned, I have several objections. The first is that the way the concessions are awarded is described here in detail, but the publication as well as most of our laws that contain the obligation to make certain publications public is defined and limited only to "The People's Journal". I don't see what the problem is and why it usually says that a concession competition can be announced and in the means of public communication and on the website of local self-government, when it is clear in itself. If they did not write, they could publish it again, whether or not the legislator predicted it in his article. But I think it would be absolutely better if it said that it had to be published in means of public communication and on the website, and not like this in "The People's Newspapers" that have more or less very low availability to the public, interested economic operators and I feel this way of advertising as if something was doing in a semi-legal. Therefore, here is my request, if it is possible to amend it, that if not in means of public communication, and that on the website of local units must be required to publish a concession tender. On the other hand, of course, we need to regulate this law, to support this law, but we also cannot escape the responsibility of the government which I said led to the fact that in this year, on the basis of all the difficulties that Croatian citizens have gained from the crisis tax to the loss of 73,000 jobs, another 40 are expected next year, the Government via its public company, which, by the way, is doing business in a non-transparent way, which is marked by many affairs, sends a message to Croatian citizens and I still told them 500 to 500 kuna a year because of what the price of gas is collected, i.e. the price of heating and distribution and the delivery of heat energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46212	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46213	Thank you, Vice President. Here it is, and I will not be obliged to talk much about the details of this law, but I am afraid that this Amendment Law and the additions of the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat speaks in favour of our thesis when we discussed the energy strategy here in the Croatian Parliament that the Government's policy is not very good in the field of energy, and in general energy policy and energy strategy and, above all, within the framework of this law, I mean, that, regardless of what this bill is in principle being adopted in order to bring the law into line with the concession law, certain things could be done, certain steps could be made to actually move more towards some energy efficiency and promotion of certain cogeneration projects. Unfortunately, in this proposal, the law was left behind, and I am primarily referring to Article 8 which amends Article 15 of the Law, where later in an explanation, when it comes to this, means which articles of the law are being amended, states which conditions should actually be met by the concessionary in order to obtain a concession. It is also referred to under point 11 as environmental protection measures. However, there is no mention of energy efficiency measures anywhere, and it should be noted that even during the debate on the energy strategy here in the Croatian Parliament, we could see that Croatia is very lagging behind in the field of energy efficiency in the EU countries, so here it is, I would only say that compared to the average energy intensity in the EU energy intensity in the Republic of Croatia was greater by 11.8%, energy intensity or energy consumption per GDP unit in Croatia is even two times higher than in EU members, and that is something we really need to worry about. During the debate on the Committee on Spatial Regulation on this bill, I made a similar observation and was not actually satisfied with the response of our official, here is the present gentleman, who explained that these things would be resolved with the assistance of the Energies Fund. I really believe that politics, at this highest level, means that the state must determine certain directions and directions in terms of increasing and encouraging a larger amount of energy efficiency measures, and that this cannot simply be left to local self-government units. That is why I really believe that it was necessary, regardless of what is involved in the harmonisation of the law with the Law on concessions, to strengthen this part and in this way to actually move Croatia towards greater energy efficiency. It also seems to me that such a bill does not encourage cogeneration projects, i.e. that there may be problems in obtaining a concession if, of course, it is some kind of production of biomass electricity, so that with the help of cogeneration, energy is used and for, it means heat energy so that it is distributed in how such projects could be realised through this bill. And in that sense, I don't think we can be satisfied. That this shows another wandering of the Croatian government in the field of energy policy, and I hope that some things will change in future documents and that Croatia will move towards greater energy efficiency and implementation of cogeneration projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46214	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46215	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. Here I am in a few words to look back on this bill. The basic reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy stems from the need for full compliance with the Law on concessions adopted on 01 January 2009. By passing the law, certain goals would be achieved, and I'll just list some of them. I have said that compliance with the new Law on concessions and it is arranged that the representative body of the local self-government unit for the area or part of the unit area of local self-government may grant a concession for the distribution of heat energy, for the exercise of the activity of the distribution of heat energy, which may include up-to-date works resulting from the operation or supplementing or concession for the construction of energy facilities for the distribution of heat energy. I'd just like to say a few words since the Energy Act, which was passed in 2001, and it also mentions the distribution of the gas market. I have to say because the problems I face as the head of the municipality, and not just me, but a lot of local self-government units, is that so far the concession for gas distribution has been awarded by the county. I didn't think that was right. I don't think the county built gas networks in the area of local self-government units, but built by the municipalities themselves. their citizens, so we have the case that the company that has been running gas distribution for me received a concession 2 years ago from the county, without knowing the unit of local self-government and the concession has been given to a company which unfortunately has been in bankruptcy for 6.7 years and I don't understand by which law the company that has been bankrupt for 6.7 years can get a concession for gas distribution if it can't meet the basic conditions, and the basic conditions would have to be to have employees, and the company in bankruptcy cannot have employees and that it must have a bonity, BON1 and BON2 that this company is insolvency and that it can deal with that activity. It's also not good that the county gave concessions for 10 years. I hope that these amendments to the law will be regulated and that according to this proposal, the concession will be awarded by the local self-government unit, and the concession fee should be as provided for here by this law to accept the unit of local self-government, not the county. The same thing I'm interested in how a concession fee will be charged? Will it be according to the supplied, charged or gas cubes? Because it's not completely visible here. And here are some reasons why this law provides that future concessions are granted by units of local self-government I think that this law should be adopted as such, but I also think that the gas market law should also be settled so that it is allegedly regulated that it cannot obtain a concession from someone who is not capable of it, and that it should also allow units of local self-government that built a gas network to decide and that they are here according to such a proposed law and charge a concession fee. For all of this above, for the most part, for the reason that local self-government units will finally be able to charge concession fees, I will support the proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46216	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46217	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, here is one in a series of laws that are in line with other laws, but what needs to be noted is that in this House we have passed a large number of laws, especially because of compliance with the EU acquis, and we ourselves do not know the true consequences of these laws. So very often it happens that certain laws are only in line with part of what they should include, and they do not contain any important things that we have set ourselves in our strategies, they do not contain some important things that the EU itself has set out in its directives, they do not contain a whole series of important things that are necessary for a comprehensive approach and then we enter into a situation that we constantly have new amendments and additions to the law that we have a problem in real life. One of these laws is certainly this one, and something on this trail was said primarily by colleague Holly, who talked about the necessity not only of compliance with the Law on concessions which in Croatia was supposed to come before last year, but this is about what is called energy efficiency, that is, the way energy is systematically and let's say it effectively, because in all the guidelines and the European Union as well as the European Commission's directives on the use of renewable energy and use. Energy efficiency is definitely the most important thing not only to address but to be followed very closely. When we talk about the distribution of thermal energy, then it is clear that Croatia in the distribution itself, let's remember last year, had big problems. She had major problems because there was a dispute between Russia and Ukraine, but she was mostly having major problems because the adequate reaction of the Croatian government and the competent institutions was not what they were supposed to be, which is why the Croatian economy in the past year, we remember, is also the story of the Croatian Employers' Association and all those who follow continuously what happened over 2 billion kunas of damage. The damage is enormous and the damage is irreparable and the damage is due to the fact that 73,000 people have lost their jobs with December in the past year. One part of these people remained in production activities that were directly damaged in the heart of the season, and they are related to gas, are related to the production of meanings with which it is a basic energy gas. Also, what needs to be noted is that I think something my colleague Maras said about it, and it is about how it manages and distributes heat energy best tells the example and the way in which it systematically or unsustainably manages heat energy. The best-known example of the purchase of Plinocol warehouse, which was purchased for 500 million, but in that contract it did not cost that there would be gas inside, but the gas had to be bought afterwards. It's as if it's not known that without gas, without pushing that warehouse itself can't function. And this is another example of a harmful contract that should definitely be explored, and this is another example of how the money of Croatian taxpayers is spent irrationally. What this Law can definitely enable, can enable units of local self-government to choose concessionaries in their environments, prescribe some ways of giving concessions, but what should definitely be paid attention to in the next period is that all the things contained in the energy strategy, the strategy of Croatia's energy development, which contains not only concession laws but also a whole series of other laws which are based on energy policy, which is the fact at this point, we can all agree, one of which I could say, the most prospective branches for Croatia if used, especially if the potentials of Croatia are exploited, which are renewable energy potentials, on the one hand. And on the other hand, this energy policy can also be the biggest weight for this country if we don't approach it in such a way because we're more and more energy imports because in the next seven, eight years, over 3,000 megawatts of power power by power plants will be extinguished because we won't have a way to make up for it, because the energy strategy predicts new investments that are difficult and a half, I'm going to say it freely, somewhere at 100 billion kuna for the next 10 years, simply that money is gone. And it is therefore extremely important for the Croatian state to focus on how to be energy independent, how in the energy sector that can be created on new technologies precisely because it is the trend of the European Union, and in particular in the area of renewable energy sources, we add a new value, there is a development technology that is most expensive but most efficient, there are initial costs, so the very cost of capital in these spheres is the smallest, they can draw with them the largest number of experts that can work together on these projects, and what is definitely the case that energy is a pro-pulsive area, especially on these technologies that carry a new value. Here, my colleague Kunst agrees with me, I think I said it right then. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46218	Thank you. And Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The same few words about this Law which is certainly at this time and recession and crisis but also clearly the situation in which energy becomes in some way the foundation and economic development and economic competitiveness but in some way economic independence to discuss this Law that will certainly contribute to a better regulation of the operation of energy distribution and production, but it is also certain that this Law will contribute to greater energy efficiency. What is regulated by law is a concession for the distribution of heat energy, therefore for public services, and also a concession for the construction of energy facilities for the distribution of heat energy. So these two concessions are being separated, they are being announced in separate competitions, and just as things are being set up, we expect those who are the most competent to carry out these two types of work to come forward. So, from one construction on the other side of distribution. We had this Law and at the meeting of the Committee on Economy, so the question was asked about Article 6 relating to Article 13 of the existing law, so where the representative body of the local self-government unit on behalf of the local self-government unit provides a concession for the distribution of heat energy, for carrying out the activity of the distribution of heat energy that it can contain, and yet here are the random works. So that might be good, it might be some sublegal act or some more precise, clearer explanation, so we assume that this refers to maintenance, that this refers to replacing some old, worn out, mutilated parts, troubled parts of the system, improvements, etc. but that clearly does not refer to new investments, which are as we see by law and particularly regulated. Also one important thing that we asked at the board's session and got a clear unequivocal answer, which is that this law will not produce new costs for the end-user. So this is extremely important information to us, so I am going to step into these amendments and the addition of the law, that end-users will not pay any additional costs on their accounts. Or it will be minor, meaning more about some administrative part, which is extremely important, since indeed our citizens are particularly exposed here at the beginning of this year when it comes to both electricity and other forms of energy. What is also important in this law, and what has been said by colleagues about some of the events that were in the contests. To do this job, incompetent companies appear and then actually with their business failures and with their dubiosis and entire systems enter into dubiosis and problems. I think that this Article 10 will absolutely improve and change for the better, where we have in these two paragraphs 1 and 2 at 9, i.e. 10 points precise, clear and very detailed criteria by which companies will be able to get a job, i.e. be able to obtain a concession to carry out. Is it raising new investments or is it the distribution of heat energy? It means where it is very clearly prescribed from the quality of distribution, the average annual amount of compensation, the total price of the offer, the technical achievement offered, the aesthetic functional ecological characteristics, operational costs, economics, governance, control, driving and the ability to achieve the concession. Therefore, since it is certain that once these criteria have passed the tender that these companies will have to have both human and professional and technological potential in order to be able to carry out these tasks. Namely, I found some data in the literature that it's a pretty big age of heat and boiler room, so somewhere over 20 years, that even poor fuel use is about 70%, and is particularly high costs in that maintenance segment due to poor isolation, due to the ageing of the device. So that's part of the problem where we talk about energy efficiency, so where we have a low level of consumer awareness in general about energy use. That is why I think it is extremely important to adopt this law, that it will contribute to better energy efficiency and better regulation of these services prescribed by concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46220	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And we move on to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 497. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 103 votes to, 7 abstentions, nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen, the 16th session continues on 3 February at 9.30 p.m., and the first item of the agenda is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, P.Z. No. 498. Have a nice weekend and get some rest for next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46223	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 400th session held on 29 January 2010 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. First, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union is relieved of the duties of President Mario Zubovic and Vice President Branko Grcic. Second, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union is appointed President Marija Pejcinović-Burić and Vice-President Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46224	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Please, let's get on with it. We are voting on the committee's proposal. The result? The proposal was accepted by the majority with 103 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46225	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 40th session held on 29 January 2010 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First, the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mario Zubovic, is relieved. Frano Matušić is elected president of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46226	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The committee's proposal was accepted by the majority of votes with 95 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 1 against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46227	The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 40th session held on 29 January 2010 unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Deputy Advocate for Children. The deputy attorney for the children, Lora Didovic, is hereby dismissed on a personal request from 31 January 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46228	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's please get involved and vote on the committee's proposal. The result? This proposal was unanimously accepted with 107 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46229	The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 40th session held on 29 January 2010 unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Deputy Advocate for Children. The Deputy Advocate for Children is named Esther Radmilo on 1 February 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46230	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The committee's proposal was accepted unanimously by 107 votes. Now I'd like to ask you to establish a quorum, to engage. The result? We've got a quorum, 95 present deputies, and we're crossing ladies and gentlemen on our first oath, the oath of MP Milivove Schwartz. The oath is given in a way that the chairman reads the text of the oath, and then calls upon a new representative who stands up and pronounces the word "I swear". The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Agent Milivo Schwartz?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46232	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46233	Thank you. Congratulations and I want a lot of success in the work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament will now be sworn in by the Deputy Advocate General for Children, Mrs. Esther Radmillo. [[Applause.]] The oath is given in a way that the President of the Croatian Parliament reads the text of the oath after which the Deputy Advocate gets up and pronounces the words "I swear". The text of the oath reads: "I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law, respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will exercise my duty in a fair, honorable, conscientious and impartial way in the best interests of children." Mrs. Esther Radmillo?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46234	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46235	Thank you very much. I wish you many successes in your work. [[Applause.]] I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections and Appoints, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, to submit the committee's proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46237	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 41st session held on 5 February 2010 unanimously established a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee. Josip Salapić is elected member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46238	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal was unanimously accepted by 95 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46239	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 41st session held on 5 February 2010 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. First, members of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament Frano Matušić and secondly, Mario Zubović is elected as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46240	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal was accepted by most votes, 92 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46241	The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held on 5 February 2010 unanimously established a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament is elected Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46242	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was unanimously accepted by 92 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46243	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 41st session held on 5 February 2010 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament, Vesna Buterin, is hereby authorised. And secondly, for a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament, Milivove Škvorc is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46244	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This motion for a decision was adopted unanimously by 91 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46245	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 41st session held on 5 February 2010 unanimously established the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament is elected Milivove Škvorc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46246	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This motion for a decision was accepted by most votes, 92 votes for, 1 abstention, nothing against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46247	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 41st session held on 5 February 2010 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the appointment of a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union shall be relieved of the duties of members Marija Pejcinović Buric. Secondly, as a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, Mario Zubovic is hereby appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46248	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for a decision was adopted by a majority of votes, 88 votes, or unanimously with 88 votes. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, today we're going to finish this session. By the way, we continue on Wednesday 10 February at 9.30 p.m. with point Final draft law on the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, P.Z. No. 438. Have a nice holiday this weekend! Thank you. We will now move on to the Proposal for a Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. I ask the chairman of the board, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, to propose these decisions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46250	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues, colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 42nd session held on 12 February 2010 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president and the election of a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. First, the duties of the chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning, construction of the Croatian Parliament, Jerko Roshin, are resolved. And secondly, in the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected president Branko Bačić and member Jerko Rosin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46251	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal has been accepted by most votes. 91 votes for, five abstentions and nothing against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46252	The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 42nd session held on 12 February 2010 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. Branko Bačić is elected as a member of the Committee for Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46253	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This motion for a decision has been accepted by most votes. 98 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46254	At the 42nd session held on 12 February 2010, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. Branko Bačić is elected as a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46255	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This motion for a decision was accepted by the majority of the 95 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46256	At the 42nd session held on 12 February 2010, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of a member of the Committee on Information and Information of the Media of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Information and Information Committee of the Croatian Parliament Josip Salapic is dismissed. The second for a member of the Information and Information Committee of the Croatian Parliament is also chosen by Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46257	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for a decision by the board was accepted by the majority of votes, 96 votes for, 2 abstentions, nothing against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46258	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 42nd session held on 12 February 2010 unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the National Committee of the Croatian Parliament. For a member of the National Committee of Representatives, Branko Bačić is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46259	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a proposal to the Committee for a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by 97 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against, so mostly votes. Thank you. We are moving on to the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs, so I would like the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Nevenko Majdenic, to explain the proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46261	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held on 26 February 2010 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. Đurđica Sumrak is elected as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46262	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please include and vote on the Committee's proposal for selection, appointment and administrative affairs. And we could've done it manually. I suggest we go to this appointment by raising our hands. Score. This proposal was accepted by most votes, 104 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. I ask that we vote these other proposals by raising our hands. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46263	The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held on 26 February 2010 unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament is elected Đurđica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46264	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Please, who's to raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained? It's unanimous with 112 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46265	The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held on 26 February 2010 unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament. Đurđica Sumrak is elected as a member of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46266	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This proposal was adopted unanimously by 112 votes and, if I may add, Mrs. Sumrak would have reason for three appointments to honor the Parliament. Let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46267	The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 43rd session held on 26 February 2010 unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament is appointed as a member of the Croatian Employers' Association, Bernard Jakelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46268	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposal. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's asking to raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint. So 110 votes for and 2 abstentions. Thank you. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46269	The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 43rd session held on 26 February 2010 unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to resolve the president and members of the Committee of the Awards "Vladimir Nazor". First, the president of the Vladimir Nazor Award Board is relieved of his duties as academic Milan Moshes due to the end of the term of office. And secondly, the duties of members of the "Vladimir Nazor" award are resolved due to the end of the term of the term Goran Grgić drama artist, Damir Mataušić academic sculptor, academic scientist Tonko Marojevic, Jagoda Maljska-Martincevic music historian, academician Krešimir Nemec, Enes Mičić academic photographer, Jerko Rosin architect and Tonko Ninić academic musician.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46270	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46271	Mr. President, on two occasions, we debated in the Parliament that things were not dealt with by personnel committees. I, for the third time, appeal to both the chairman of the parent board and to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not deal with staff issues without the opinion of the parent committees. We have a parent committee on science and culture. The Mother Committee on Science and Culture is the most competent body to decide who will be on the award committee "Vladimir Nazor" which is practically for culture, art and culture. I would ask that this item be removed from the agenda now and not be resolved before the opinion of the parent board.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46272	Mr. Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46273	Mr. President, another delusion. As a member of the Selection and Appointing Committee, we received this proposal from the Government the day before the meeting. It's not enough that we can even consider it in clubs, and as counterpart Flego said, the parent board didn't even have a chance to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46274	Mr. President, another delusion. As a member of the Selection and Appointing Committee, we received this proposal from the Government the day before the meeting. It's not enough that we can even consider it in clubs, and as counterpart Flego said, the parent board didn't even have a chance to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46275	Here's your thanks, Mr. President. This is about a solution. So, the mandate expires for this president and member of the Vladimir Nazor Award board. This is about a resolution, so the term of office is running out. According to the Rules of Procedure, our Board of Selection and Appointment should not, so it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure, so that we must ask another committee. So we think we've been working. And they were also representatives of the SDP club, and this proposal was adopted unanimously. So, all the representatives of the club, they were all represented. Both HNS and SDP and HDZ. If there were any objections, I'd take it off the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46276	Mr. Chairman of the Committee on...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46277	Resolution is not disputed, it is automatically going. It is only a controversial appointment of new members of the board "Vladimir Nazor" which has not passed the parent board. And that is why we propose that this choice, a clear solution to accept, and a choice to postpone until the opinion of the parent board is given.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46278	I think it might be accepted, because the resolution is coming anyway because the term of office has expired. What? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46279	Mr. President, I'm going to say one more time that we were actually working on the Rules of Procedure. I want to say that all parties participated, were represented at the board meeting. And the one who makes the proposal is the minister. He therefore suggested that Minister Biskupić...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46280	It's okay. However, no one here argues that the clubs knew either the parties, but that the parent board did not discuss it. That's the thing, here. So please, I suggest next. I don't think this is supposed to happen to us. If this is a question that the parent committee needs to discuss before the final decision is made that it is okay. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46281	And I would only explain once again that according to the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't say there has to be any parent board. This goes to the selection and appointment committee and we're based on it. We didn't do anything wrong. It does not say anywhere in the Rules of Procedure, therefore, if necessary, let the Rules of Procedure be added to the Rules of Procedure that the opinion of the parent committee should be sought.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46282	Please! So no one's saying that the election board, the appointments were wrong. He worked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because there's no record of what we're talking about. But I think that would be logical, especially when it comes to these committees for rewards, etc. that the constituency body of the parent body on the matter gives its opinion. Is there anything going to happen if we postpone the appointment? And he's not here? For culture. Do we have, will there be any, actually empty periods to say so when we don't have boards? Does it matter? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46283	Your Honor, Mr. President, it is not therefore disputed that someone's term of office has expired. But this is about the highest national award for art and that's in the crucial arts branches. So it's not a matter of human beings here, so that it's only just a committee of appointments that could iron or any kind of inter-party agreement. It's about the most important team to judge on our behalf proposals for the highest state prize. If that is the case, so what is the problem with waiting two or three weeks with the appointment with the opinion of the parent board.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46284	Thank you. Mr. Roshin who was a member of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46285	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm one of the ones whose mandate I got out of yesterday, so I might be able to explain something to. It's not a matter of time before your term of office is over. It may be interesting to discuss who would be in the future. All of this is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture and it is not true that this is an art prize, but an art that contributes to the country's culture. So culture is exposed, not just art by itself, you understand. The question of choice, this may have come late in the debate, but the Vladimir Nazor award is fixed by the date of one marking Vladimir Nazor's day and by then certain actions must be carried out, a committee must be formed. The committee must come up with commissions that work for each branch of art or activity. So, there's still that engagement coming and then we have to call the competition. Suggestions should come. Proposals need to be discussed. What? I'm telling you. Therefore, commissions that will be settled should simply choose the rules to arrive in time. So it seems to me as to the resolution that in any case it is undeniable, and as far as the appointment is concerned, it is always interesting to discuss who it is that is proposed. But I don't know if there was any talk about me at the Parliament or not on the mother's body before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46286	Thank you. I'm afraid we're going to fall into some space that we won't actually have time for some things. Here you go, Mr. Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46287	Well, Mr. President, I agree with you. Because otherwise, the committees in this House decide on very few matters, and they should be asked about more things. Among other things, things that are equally important. You should ask the parent boards, and otherwise more heads think better than a few heads. And I think that contributes to parliamentaryism. Mr. President, you're absolutely right about what you said before.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46288	Look, we're procedurally not wrong. The fact that the parent board didn't discuss it would have been good if it had been discussed, but there was no need for this to appear as a proposal. But the logical thing is that we're all actually saying that it would be good for the parent board to discuss it. I'd like to get out of this to get rid of the existing board. Is there time for the Vladimir Nazor Award, that when the committee is formed, it will be appointed in 15 days. Is it? How? He's got a problem. ... And there's time. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Please, is there time? If there's time I suggest we settle it then, and by 15, about 15.3rd, the parent board will discuss it. I don't see much of a challenge here, but let's keep it a secret. And for the future, so be it. What? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46289	Well, Mr. President, I just wanted to say that we've chosen a lot of such committees so far over the past six years as I recall. No proposal has ever gone to committees, and it's never objecting. This is the first time right now, it's like some kind of board's been bypassed. Okay, if that's the deal, so be it, but so far, there's never been a single objection, and there's a lot of such committees to award the prizes that have passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46290	That's right. Can we? Please! Can we accept the following? This is all true what Mr. Markovanovic said, we have made countless decisions without the board having, and now it has become a problem with my right to do so. She was rightly troubled. Can we get out of this now and settle this together and do what we said in the future? I mean, there's no other way. Please! Thank you very much. That's what we're gonna do. I am voting on a motion to resolve the president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Prize. Please, let's get involved and vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46291	Too bad we're voting against this principle right now. So give people a chance to go by with more votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46292	Please, we said it's been like this before. It is not disputed that this is wrong, that the parent committees need to discuss these matters. Let's get out of this situation one more time, and do it in advance and that's it. Please, let's get on board and vote on resolution. Vote for resolution. Please. The result? The resolution decision was made by a majority of votes, 87 votes to, 6 abstentions and 2 against. And a proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee, Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46293	At the 43rd session held on 26 February, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee. First, for the chairman of the Committee of Awards Vladimir Nazor is named academician Milan Mojsh. And secondly for members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Board is named Branko Cvitković drama artist, Valter Despalj academic musician, academician Tonko Marojević, academician Krešimir Nemec, Krsto Papić film director, Georgi Paro theatre director, Biserka Rauter Plančić professor and Idis Turato architect. I would now like to say immediately that the proposal to appoint the president and members of the Committee of Awards Vladimir Nazor proposes the government, so here the proposal of the government, the culture minister, on behalf of the government, has proposed and it is legal, so under the law, this proposal has come. And the Committee for Selection and Appointment on the Government's proposal is considering this and giving it to the Parliament. So that's the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46294	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46295	Mr. President, the government is proposing, but the Parliament is deciding. First. Secondly, we last made that decision when I had the same objection to making staff decisions past the parent board and Mr. Chairman of the parent board said let this be the case, and future things will come to the parent committees. I therefore repeat the proposal of the President of the Assembly's parent committee and ask the Parliament to return the proposal to the parent board and thus to obtain its dignity. Thirdly, I would feel very uncomfortable if I were the president of the Staff Committee or the Committee on Staff, the appointments, and I was making decisions that were not past the parent committee which is essential for the relevant activity. It's not about government officials, it's about experts and competent people making expert and competent decisions for state awards. We have a parent board, please use it whenever this sort of thing comes into question. Otherwise, we're going to be in a completely pragmatic situation with human resources policy, instead of being decided by the waist, the boards will decide for the staff, and I don't know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46296	Thank you. Mr. Representative, one hypothetical situation. It's not up to the parent board to decide, it's up to debate, so theoretically, it could be against the proposal and it would still be over. That's possible. Therefore, I do not speak here nor have I said one word that this has not been in accordance with the Rules of Procedure so far, etc. I personally believe that the parent committees need to discuss it, give their opinion, no matter how it finally ends. And we can say that from today on, we'll do it that way, because we won't. Please! Because otherwise, we won't put it on the agenda, if there's no opinion of the parent board, whatever it is. So if we conclude that we are doing so from now on, then we will do so and there will be no point on the agenda unless there is an opinion of the parent committee which includes a single appointment. Please. So let's not open the debate now, we can have some different opinions by morning. Please! I think we need to get out of this and do as we agreed. Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46297	Thank you, Mr. President. So I have to react because, therefore, I have to react because Mrs Majdenic has now sent word to this House that this is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, as such, obviously should not have a debate. It is the best reflection of the situation in Croatia where this Assembly is. It's the best reflection.../The speaker isn't involved, he doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46298	Please, take it easy. I'm obliged to give an explanation to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to these matters. No one has said that the Rules of Procedure have been injured in terms of the elections and the proposals we have heard here. Well, neither did anyone dispute the government's legitimacy to propose. And that's why I wouldn't argue with anything in general. The government has the right to propose, the Committee for selecting appointments to discuss and propose, and I further suggest that these matters be further discussed by the parent board. But purely theoretically, I can say that when the parent board discusses and, let's say, unanimity is against that proposal, and he's voted here, what does that mean? It just means that the procedure was right, it just means that the procedure was right, and the result will be determined by the Parliament. I think, colleagues, it's unnecessary for us to compete here right now and use every opportunity to attack the government, on this, on what you do to Mr. Jovanovic every time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46299	Mr. President, I suggest that I vote on the conclusion that you have formulated it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46300	Here you go. Mr. Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have resolved very prominent board members, very prominent board members. Several academics, several directors, several architects, and the proposal to appoint also very prominent members of the Croatian state. In order not to put us in a position to vote against or abstention, and since I am a member of the Committee on Science and Culture, I suggest that Mrs Majdenic see what we are talking about, not to appoint officials, ministers and do not let one academic get a vote, to be abstentioned or you or us against some people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46302	Mr. Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46303	I actually wanted exactly what my colleague Ostojić said. Mr. President, you're good, I'd say to the political nerve, to conclude that no business rule has been broken in this case. But what Ostojic said only a few minutes ago. Let's not, for the sake of the dignity of the people who will decide on one of the most important cultural awards in this country, let them not get consensual support, and they can get it in 14 or 15 days, in 3 weeks. I'm begging you, just so this doesn't be a polygon for political bickering. Mr. President-in-Office's proposal was very reasonable, no one is going to harm or procedurally, and I would say a good basis that this committee has a legitimacy that it will not have if part of the MPs vote against or withheld.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46304	Please. I suggest we postpone the decision on this agenda item and let all those who think they are interested in discussing it, especially the parent committee for this appointment. And at the next session of the agenda, we'll put it back on the agenda. So far, we're taking the appointment off the agenda. And I would now ask you, since the last time we did not vote on the appointment of presidents and members of the Vladimir Nazor Committee, because in the opinion of the MPs, the committee should have discussed this issue in a way that the deadlines were very short and every day is precious, given the time when these decisions should be made, I ask that we now, if we have quorum, vote on the proposal for this decision. ... Then nothing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Can we get a couple of MPs to come? We were asked by Minister Biskupić because his deadlines are very short and he can't do all this. Please don't step away from those of you who are here, but we're trying to get a few more MPs. How many of us are there now? After all, we still have one and a half hours of 10 seconds, so we can. It's exactly 77 now. I ask Mrs. Committee President Nevenka Majdenic to read the proposal again. We have a report from the board that unanimously accepted the proposal signed by Dr. Peter Selem who signed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46306	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 43rd session held on 26 February unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Committee. First, for the chairman of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee, he is named academician Milan Mojsh. Secondly, for the members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee, Branka Cvitković is a drama artist, Valter Despalj academic musician, academician Tonko Marojevic, academician Krešimir Nemec, Krsto Papić film director, Georgi Paro theatre director, Biserka Rauter Plančić professor, Idis Turato architect. Here, we have asked as a committee in view of the debate that took place on this point, and we have brought, in fact, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which could say this: "The Committee supports all persons proposed in the Committee's "The Vladimir Nazor Award" system both with regard to the Committee's chairman and its members and agrees that the decision be taken in the proposed form."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46307	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote by raising our hands. Who's in favour of the election committee's proposal, appointments? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The result? The proposal was unanimously accepted with 82 votes. Thank you. We continue at 3pm with the agenda point that we put here in the final proposal, that is to pay the obligations of state and public enterprises, the state budget, etc. Please, now we're moving on to the point. - A report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission please the chairman of the commission of Mr. Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46309	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. We have two reports. The first is the report on the start of the stay of MP Vladimir Ivkovic's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative of Milivov Škvorec. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 27th session held on 29 January 2010 the written request of MP Vladimir Ivkovic of 26 January 2010 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that from 1 February 2010, he had put his representative mandate on hold. Determining the legal basis for placing the mandate in a standstill, the representative shall, in his request, leave the evaluation of the commission in such a way as to put the mandate at rest on the basis of Article 9. The law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, if the commission finds that it is incompatible to the director of a company owned by a unit of local self-government with the duty of MPs, that is, the basis of Article 14 if the commission determines that the representative is not acting incompatiblely with the representative. The mandate-immunity commission has had the opinion of the Committee for Decision on the Conflict of Interest since 24 October 2008 which states that official Vladimir Ivkovic cannot simultaneously act as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and be the director of a company owned by local self-government units. That opinion is based on Article 11(5). Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. It is the opinion of most members of the committee that it is not the incompatibility of the representative’s duties and of the member of the company’s management referred to in Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, because the company "MJJIMURJE-PLIN d.o.o." In the case of a representative acting as director, the majority of state-owned property, as stated in that article of the law lays down a presumption of incompatibility, is already owned by units of local self-government. Therefore, the Commission accepted and discussed the request for the peace of Vladimir Ivkovic as a request based on Article 14(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. As Mr Vladimir Ivkovic was elected representative in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate from the Croatian Democratic Union in the 3rd election unit, the Croatian Democratic Community and in accordance with Article 12(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Milivovo Škvorec as deputy representative in that constituency. The Commission has established that the conditions laid down in Articles 14 and 11. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament to begin the stay of Vladimir Ivkovic's parliamentary mandate as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy, Milivoj Škvorec. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority vote, 4 for and 1 abstention, proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a decision on the rest of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy office. On 1 February 2010, the rest of MP Vladimir Ivkovic's term of office begins. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will begin acting as Deputy Representative Milivove Škvortz.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46310	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We can plead by raising our hands. Who's for the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Score. This proposal was unanimously accepted, with 113 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46311	Report on the request for authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Zoran Vinkovic. At the 27th session held on 29 January 2010, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the municipal state attorney in Zagreb from 22 January 2010 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 26 January 2010, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Zoran Vinkovic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed fraud in the service referred to in Article 344(1). Penalty law. Mr Zoran Vinković is the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has submitted a request for authorisation to initiate the criminal proceedings of MP Zoran Vinkovic. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the next decision. "Approving the initiation of criminal proceedings against representative Zoran Vinkovic at the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, number CDO 2416/09 of 22 January 2010, directed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, Act No. KR IDO 110/10, on suspicion that he committed the criminal offence referred to in Article 344(1). The Penal Code."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46312	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46313	Thank you, Mr. President. This morning, we had a meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, where I am without discussion, and today, also at this plenary session, I will raise my hand to remove the immunity of my colleague Zoran Vinkovic in order to allow for further proceedings. But what I had no knowledge this morning, but now I want to say a few sentences and warn us that again we have different arches in the Croatian Parliament compared to our fellow MPs and MPs, depending on which parties they come from. This is because during the same period for which counterpart Zoran Vinkovic was charged, another colleague did the same work as he did. It's about taking travel expenses as if using a private car, and using an official car. After everything that happened in that period and one and the other colleagues, one three months earlier, are paying a certain amount of funds that they took past the law back into the state budget. Against one, counterparts Zoran Vinkovic, the Croatian Parliament, about 6 months after he paid the amount into the state budget, is therefore required to launch a criminal procedure. Not against anyone else. I wouldn't answer if I were talking about this, but I answered because, in a request for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against counterpart Zoran Vinkovic, the State's Attorney's Office also wrote this sentence. Therefore, after the suspect was found to have made a payment of 17000 kuna in favour of the state budget on 29 April. However, taking into account the fact that the requirements for the billing of travel expenses have been lodged and payments of non-accounted non-accounted for, were made during the incriminated period, it follows that the suspect has obtained non-acquired property benefit in which all the essential characteristics of the offences imposed on the burden and the subsequent payment is not relevant for determining the criminal liability of the same. And I am now asking my colleagues and colleagues, whether now and in this case it is, therefore, the same mandate as the parliamentary deputies, about the same almost identical period, perhaps the difference some month. But against one Croatian Parliament, he applies for proceedings and not against the other. Personally, I consider this to be the work of the various arches when it comes to parliamentary deputies who have committed the same criminal act that they should be responsible for. I'll do it again in the end. I raised my hand this morning, I raise it now, because what has been done is not in accordance with the law and it bears a certain criminal responsibility that must be determined in the follow-up procedure. I just remind you there was another case he was in this Parliament, remember we were also having great controversy about whether we had different archines when counterpart Cacic was supposed to go back to the Parliament, so when he was that colleague Bagarić was late with the request then it could go, and when he went to counterpart Cacic then of course it couldn't go. I ask the Croatian Parliament, the responsible, is this the Presidency of the Parliament, is this the secretariat that, of course, continues to work on the prevention and acts of this kind that individual MPs or MPs have done or will do, but that this is guided by one single principle – the same archaic for all regardless of which political option we belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46314	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sesvečna correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46315	Well, here's what I have to do to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague when she said that we had different, that the Mandate-Immunity Commission had different approaches. I'm sorry, I... No, but the same thing, so. [[You can't hear it.]] Well, then I won't if it's not about the commission. Then I'll give up the corrections.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46316	Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as an item comes to me, I pass it to me on the same day as possible to the commission and I don't enter or read it at all. And when that next one comes, if he comes, it'll be his destiny that he'll be forwarded immediately and I don't see any reason to make any difference. It's a little different around here if someone can replace someone in the Parliament. There's that provision that says that when the cause of the conflict ceases to be so inconsistencies that someone is on some duty that rules out then the possibility of being an agent is within eight days. However, if one of the MPs resigns, then that eight-day stay out of it, it is not the same case. Is it? So we're gonna have to check it out, I'm bound here, I'm gonna check on that other case, what he's like, and that's what he's gonna do. Is there any need to discuss it? If there is no final debate and I propose the Mandate-Immunity Commission to vote. Please, let's vote hand-to-hand, because we voted for this second one. So, who's for a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that a unanimous decision has been taken unanimously with 112 votes. What? One abstention, with one abstention. So 112 with one abstention. Please, now, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, or the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, on the proposal that we will hear. Here you go, Mr. Sesvetchan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46318	Therefore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 28th session held on 3 February 2010 the written request of MP Branko Bačić of 29 January 2010 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that the duty of the State Secretary in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure had ceased to behave on 28 January 2010 and in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a request to continue the conduct of the parliamentary office. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term of Mr Branko Bacic, elected on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union, began in the 10th election unit on 11 January 2008 because of the incompatibility of the State Secretary's duties as set out in Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and that on the same day, his deputy Boris Matkovic began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. As Mr Branko Bačić is, in accordance with Article 13(1). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the president of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so that the rest of Branko Bačić's parliamentary mandate ended on the eighth day of the application, and the same day the conduct of his deputy, Borislav Matkovic, ceased. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives for the Croatian Parliament and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the termination of the term of office of deputy deputies. On 6 February 2010, the term of office of MP Branko Bačić ceased. Deputy MP Mr. Borislav Matkovic on 6 February 2010 ceased to act as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46319	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46320	Thank you, Mr. President. It's very short. So, we've been islanded so little in the Parliament that I'm always glad when a new islander comes to the Parliament and thus strengthens the island lobby of the island of the Assembly. There's a side effect that the lobby in the government has fallen a little bit, island. I hope it will contribute naturally to the better development of the island from which Mr. Bacic will now be able to act... However, I would like to say another sentence. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Mr Bacic, as an explanation of his arrival in the Assembly, stated that he was acting as HDZ Secretary-General and that he could not be State Secretary at the same time act as Secretary-General and that he is therefore coming to the Assembly. I'd like to remind you that he's been the secretary-in-chief for six months. Does this mean that his conduct as Secretary of State in the last six months has been somewhat worse because you've had a rather violent period in the government... But I would point out that as an islander, he has shown an extraordinary social line because he has allowed his colleague in these six months to exercise his right to resign, and he will, so Mr. Matkovic as Mayor of Vrgorca will have to do more work in the city anyway because he will be left without several thousand voters who now have a double right to vote and then I wish him much luck in it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46321	Is there any more interest in the debate? ... It's important that everything is in accordance with the law and the rules of procedure. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am making a proposal to the Mandate-Immunity Commission to vote. Who's up for this proposal? Let's get involved and vote. Thank you. Score. The proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by most votes, 97 votes to, 2 abstentions and nothing against. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections and Appoints, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, to submit the committee's proposals. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose MPs and MPs, since we have a quorum and we don't have a lot of agendas to vote on, so I would suggest after the vote that we finish the agenda. But let's get to the vote. We also have a brief agenda and we don't have many of these points to vote on. I suggest we first hear the Mandate Immunity Commission. Here you go. President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mr. Damir Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46323	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. We have two reports. The first is the report on the termination of the deputy deputy representative Kresimir Gulic's term of office and the launch of the deputy deputy representative, Djurdzica Sumrak. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 29th session held on 17 February 2010 the resignation of MP Krešimir Gulić from 17 February 2010 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that in accordance with Article 10. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament resigns as representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 15 February 2010. The commission found that on 11 January 2008, Mr Kresimir Gulic began acting as deputy MPs in the first election unit as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list instead of Mr Mladen Barisic. By resigning from MP Kresimir Gulic, his parliamentary mandate has ceased and conditions have been met for the other deputy deputies to act as representative. The Croatian Democratic Community shall comply with the provisions of Article 12(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament as deputy representative appointed by Đurdjica Sumrak. The commission found that the termination of Mr Krešimir Gulic's parliamentary mandate and of the Croatian Democratic Community's notification of a deputy representative were met with the law laying down the conditions for the start of the deputy deputy representative, Đurdice Sumarak. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the termination of the deputy deputy representative's term of office and the start of the deputy deputy MP's term of office. On 15 February 2010, the parliamentary term of office of Deputy Representative Krešimir Gulić shall be suspended, acting in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will begin acting as deputy MP Đurdjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46324	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please engage to check the quorum. The result? We have a quorum. 90 MPs and representatives are present. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal for a Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by most votes. 95 votes for one abstention, no problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I call upon the new representative, Gyurdzica Sumrak, to swear her oath. The oath is given in a way that the chairman reads the text of the oath. Then he calls out a new representative who stands up and says the word, "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Advocacy Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46325	I swear. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46326	Thank you very much. I wish the new representative a lot of success and happiness amongst other things. Especially in acting as a representative. Thank you. I'm asking the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46327	Report on the request for authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Shemse Tankovic of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 29th session held on 17 February 2010 the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Memeda Djekic and Hamdija Malic, and, according to the instructions of the Municipal Court in Pula, for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Dr Šemse Tankovic for the criminal offence referred to in Article 199 and the criminal offence referred to in Articles 200 and 2. Penalty law. Mr. Šemso Tanković is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of 13 December 2006 laying down the rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of the European Parliament and The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following decision: "During the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Šemsa Tankovic in Case K190/09 under the private suit of Prosecutors Mehmed Djekic and Hamdija Malic is denied due to the criminal offence referred to in Article 199 and the defamation offence referred to in Articles 200 and 2. Penalty law. Explanation...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46328	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm in the middle of a debate. I am putting this proposal on vote by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by the majority of votes. 101 votes for, no abstentions and one against. Please check the quorum, let's get involved. Let's get on with it, please. The result? 101 se, we registered 101 MPs and MPs. We have a quorum. We can decide. And we're going to vote on the agenda points that we've crossed. First, the Mandatory Immunity Commission. Please, Mr. Damir Sesvecan, president of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46330	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, we have a report on the termination of the representative's term of office for Dr. Ivo Josipovic and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative Karolina Leakovic. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament is based on its competence under Article. 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written notice of the representatives of Dr. Ivo Josipovic took office as president of the Republic of Croatia on 19 February 2010 and was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 18 February 2010. Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic is prescribed that the President of the Republic cannot perform any other public or professional duty. As Mr Ivo Josipovic was elected representative in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate on the list of Croatian SDP in the first SDP election unit, he was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament as of 25 February 2010, in accordance with the provisions of Article. Paragraph 12. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Karolina Leakovic as deputy representative in that election unit. Following that commission, it was established that the stage of office of the President of the Republic of Croatia had met the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Dr. Ivo Josipovic, and by determining his deputy by the SDP of Croatia and legal conditions for the start of acting as his deputy deputy, Karolina Leakovic. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission after the debate has been held under Article. paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 11. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and art. 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and to initiate the conduct of the deputy deputy representative's office. On 19 February 2010, the representative's term of office of Dr. Ivo Josipovic and on 26 February 2010, agent's duties, in accordance with Article. Article 9(2) The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will begin acting as Deputy Representative Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46331	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by most votes, 109 votes to, 1 abstention and nothing against. Before continuing, I would like to invite a new representative, Caroline Leakovic, to take an oath. First I'll read the text of the oath and then I'll call a representative who swears by getting up and saying the words, "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Karolina Leaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u46332	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48760	We move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the 2008 review report on the removal of secrecy. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security proposes to remove the confidentiality mark from a specific section of the 2008 Business Audit Report. Does the Committee's representative want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I am voting on the committee's proposal to remove the confidentiality mark from the 2008 review report, a special part. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 107 votes for and 1 abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48761	We are going to the next item - Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2009 and the report on the audits carried out Report on published audits (special part) Proposer State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia. The report shall be submitted to the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 11. The State Audit Act. You received the proposal by post, and the material of the audits carried out compared to the specific part was received in person. I would like to remind you that on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, we have decided to remove the designation of secrecy from the report on the specific part of the journals carried out. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. Chief State Auditor Sima Krasic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. Here's my annual report 15 times in this House. This is the 2009 work report and everything we did in 2009 means audits for 2008 or some earlier year if we included more audits. The report shall include, inter alia, information on the organisation, employees, material working conditions of the office, activities in the framework of international cooperation, the strategic plan of the office's development for the period 2008 to 2009, as well as information on the implementation of the annual work programme, the number of audits carried out and the opinions expressed. The report also contains a summary of the recommendations made to the groups of entities. In order to carry out operations under its jurisdiction, the Office shall adopt an annual programme and work plan establishing the audit entities. For the selection of subjects to develop there are criteria. They're next, the legal obligation to audit. By law, we have an obligation each year to revise the state budget, the budgets of local units and the funds at the state level. Then types of opinions on the financial statements on the business expressed in the previous audit. If a abstention or unfavourable opinion is expressed, then a review shall be made mandatory. The material significance of the audit entity, the number of applications submitted, the applications, the applications for the implementation of the audit per entity and the data collected, the knowledge from other institutions and the media. According to the provisions of the State Audit Act, I have already stressed that the audits are carried out annually for and that other entities subject to the audit are subject to the annual programme and work plan of the office. The law lays down the jurisdiction of an office which is in line with international standards, guidelines of the European Union and with the good practice of other state audits, in particular the audit of countries which are members of the European Union. Like most other audits in the Republic of Croatia, the State audit does not have the power to take any sanctions or coercion mechanisms, that it must be acted on orders. This shall be in the jurisdiction of the other institutions with which the Office cooperates before the start of the audit, in the course of the audit, and in particular after the completion of the audit. Cooperation shall include the exchange of documents, data reports, and the submission of answers to questions and opinions on the subject matter of the audit. As in this reporting period, 103 cases have been co-operated in the framework of the implementation of the measures set out in the Action Plan of the Corruption Prevention Strategy with a view to affirming zero tolerance to corruption. In addition to objective fact-finding in the business of entities and giving orders and recommendations to improve their business, the Office’s tasks are to inform the Croatian Parliament, the public about how public funds are available. The data collected during the audit cannot be used for other purposes except for the preparation of the report until the report is discussed in the Croatian Parliament and made available to the public. In accordance with point 59. ... The international audit standards report on the audit carried out shall be submitted to the Croatian Assembly in a summary form in such a way that findings and opinions are identical as in the full report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This year's report was carried out through the audits submitted to this High House with 3 thousand 368 pages and presents a summary of the full reports drawn up by authorised state auditors on about 19 thousand pages. After the debate in the Assembly the reports are available to the public and to our websites. One of the important tasks of the State Audit is to monitor the execution of orders and recommendations in order to correct irregularities or not to repeat them. The monitoring shall be carried out by means of an indication of the report within eight days, by means of an indication of the time taken within 60 days and by verifying the tasks given at the beginning of the next audit. State auditors shall verify which orders and recommendations from the previous audit have been carried out, which have not been followed during the execution phase or on which orders have not been followed, and shall state in the report that these tasks should be followed. What is most important in this repetition of irregularities also affects the expression of opinion. This report shall expire until 30 September 2009. The Office carried out 855 audits of which 546 financial audits covering financial reports and business of entities, 309 audits of budgets and financial reports, 209 local units and 200 extraparliamentary political parties. The financial audit was carried out for the state budget and 35 users, 277 local units, 21 public health institutions, 50 other budget users, 120 companies owned by the state or local units, 21 non-profit organisations, 6 projects financed by the CARDS and ISPA, 11 parliamentary political parties and 4 independent candidates. Public funds totalling 175.7 billion kuna have been audited. Of which, 154.2 refers to the budgets of the state and local budgets. Under the budget, the revenues of the state budget amounted to 128.4 billion or 83.2%, the revenues of the City of Zagreb 7.5 or 4.9%, while the revenues of all other local units amounted to 18.3 billion kuna or 11.9%. In addition to budgetary appropriations, the audit procedures cover other public funds of 21.5 billion and relate to the revenues of companies in the predominantly state-owned units, non-profit organisations. In addition to tax revenues, the most significant revenue from the state budget is contributions to pension, health and employment. In 2008, a contribution to pension insurance was achieved with 20.1 billion kuna, a contribution to health 18.6. included full health with additional health insurance, and the employment of 1.8 billion kuna. The expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute amounted to 33.5 billion kuna so that insufficient funds amounting to HRK 13.4 billion were compensated from other budget revenues and their own income from the Institute. For pension payments 32.8 billion kuna and 63.2% of the funds collected by contributions were allocated. The expenditure of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance amounted to 20.7 billion kuna and insufficient funds of 2.6 billion kuna were compensated from other budget revenues. On the basis of the facts identified, auditors propose an opinion, one of the four opinions on the audit we have carried out. It's unconditional, conditional, unfavourable and restrained. In this reporting period, for 546 subjects, 107 or 19.6 unconditional opinions were expressed, 5 or 0.9 unfavourable, whereas for all other audited entities, 434 and 79% were subject to conditional opinion. Compared to the previous year and year, the number of unconditional opinions is increasing and the number of unfavourable opinions that we believe are also contributing to this. For the state budget and budget users, a review of 36 entities has been made. Of these 36 subjects, 41.6 received unconditional opinion and 58.4 conditional. And there's an increase in the number of people who get unconditional opinions. After this short data on the number, the type of revisions, the opinions expressed and the amount of the total audited funds are now briefly just to say something about this reporting period, the irregularities that we have placed in several groups and in this way we have given our report so that we have made these irregularities appear in the system of internal financial controls, planning and accounting operations, making revenue, carrying out expenditure and public procurement. I must say here that our risk areas are currently marked, internal financial control systems and public procurement, and that is what auditors pay particular attention to. Why? If the internal financial control systems were to be effective in that sense then there would be fewer other irregularities. So that's what it's all about, that's what it's all about, and I think we're going to do a lot more in the next period. We also found that in these systems control is normably solved all, systems are established, but missing I must say professional persons, missing auditors, missing... , and this appears everywhere where financial experts and financial experts are sought, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, these internal control systems must and must be carried out for all national funds that are withdrawn or withdrawn from the European Union and there are plenty of internal auditors involved. Although the education process has been carried out and we constantly have seminars for the education of internal auditors, more are missing. There's over 250 of them. I have to admit it's a large number compared to 4 or 5 years ago when we didn't have any internal auditors. They're going to other institutions. I have to say here that this is happening to me for material rights that are more favourable than in our institutions, but this is by training in this way and by receiving most likely, my suggestion is always, the trainers to train them and prepare them for these audit jobs both ours and these others. Irregularities that occur in the planning of accounting operations mainly refer to that the financial plans are not overall or are not real sometimes, so they have to change over the year, they have to be coordinated which is still not exactly done anyway, but I think we're here somewhere. Data on analytical records in the main financial book are not always identical. Certain business events shall not be recorded or recorded in the corresponding accounts. Why am I saying this? I'm talking because we've moved on to that system of events, not the time of payment, so it's still one transitional period, certain institutions adapt to that part. The list of assets, liabilities and claims is not complete. As a rule, lists are carried out, but in all cases they do not agree with accounting and real conditions. Certain entities shall not provide the competent authorities with any relevant information on the eyewitness of the asset. There the government made a major shift, so that all the users of the budget are obliged to supply their assets, and it will be determined later, the rest that is missing if the property-legislative relations are not resolved can be resolved even when the lists of assets are made. The important thing is that we do. As far as asset assessment is concerned, it's the same problem because it's accounting value, it's not revolving at the time. Therefore, an assessment should be carried out, we all know, experts, that it is long-term, so we propose to audit entities that tax administration evaluations are taken in the area of the specified property and thus establish quite a realistic list and value of the property, until the moment the property is alienated. So I'm supposed to make estimates on the real experts. Official errors that occur in book-keeping or some other records are generally alerted by auditors at the time of the audit and are corrected as the audit is carried out. The revision of the revenue found that individual audit entities, which are the most relevant to local units, do not pay sufficient attention to the collection of revenue. However we look, we see both claims and obligations to charge them in time, that is, to take measures so that certain claims do not become obsolete. Furthermore, the audit found that certain expenditures were carried out above the plan. It's getting less and less... And that's where we try to get together with the audit entities to do what's planned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Comparative analysis of similar expenditures by individual budget users with average market prices also attempts to assess the economicity of spending. We don't have the ability to take, artificial in some way but we can compare prices in certain areas so let's see if we're doing some acquisitions if it's in some of those sizes with other entities that it's working the same way. As regards public procurement procedures, it is important to note that a new Public Procurement Act, which is in line with the European Union's gains, came into force in early 2008. Its application is quite difficult now because it requires a lot of implementing rules that have been adopted, but they apply only for the first year and there really... However, here I must point out that the Government has set up a Public Procurement Office that will work for the state bodies of combined procurement, that they have also brought a list of certain goods and services that will be obtained to conclude probably framework agreements, so I think that these funds will then be much more efficient and that office should start working somewhere half this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total value of public procurement has been reported to have been around 35.5 billion kuna in 2008, representing around 10.4% of GDP. The expenditure on public procurement of audited entities amounted to 26.8 billion, with regard to the users of the state budget... 7.8 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Local units 6.6 billion, state-owned companies 9.2 billion, local units-owned companies 111 1.3 billion and other audit entities that I did not mention 1.9 billion. The most frequent irregularities that we have seen in the audit, which are auditors in the procurement process, are about planning, keeping records, delivering data to bodies because we have a Public Procurement Office that requires that all procurement procedures be delivered which are and how they are done. Part of the purchase was also carried out without the prescribed procurement procedures, so we made that observation that it was necessary, in addition to what was allowed, in Articles 6 or 12, to allow direct procurement. In general, we can say that the largest number of irregularities has been identified in entities that have not established an appropriate internal and financial control system as well as internal audits. I mean, I've also pointed out that we need to work on it more. But mostly there are local units that can't get and don't have personnel trained in their area, so maybe in some way, I think I have information from the Ministry of Finance that maybe at the level of the county, the city or in some way, they'll be able to help these local units manage these funds effectively. So, at the time of spending, I can react. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, in this brief presentation, I just wanted to say something briefly about the office, the powers, his tasks, the conduct of the audit, and the irregularities in the business of the audit entities. All the jobs described over the past year have been done by the Office with 279 employees. A little less than the previous year, because 8 employees went to other institutions, mostly the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, they have certain... The Internal Order Regulation provides that we have 307 auditors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we can't find them, they're not on the market. We're getting the trainees, so we're trying to train them as an auditor. But it takes at least three years to become an auditor. I have to say here today that we won and two here's the scholarship. Two of my trainees are going to Luxebmourg today to review the European Union for five months, and two have already completed the course. Hardly, we got that scholarship. As much as we want them to leave, we need them here as well, you know, because we're really in it. But when they come back, they have more knowledge, they have certificates, they have, they carry experience. And we've already nominated for two more. That's what I think is important to talk about. And for one more reason I have to say here that we have about 79% of women in our office and that we have a lot of maternity homes. That in that time since I was head of the office, 126 children have been born. I can just say that's good. We support it, but when you watch the work programme, we miss it. But somehow we did, it's just so much to you. What I'd like to meet you with is the Office's assignments next year. We here briefly every year say what we should do. We also adopted a new strategic plan in 2008/2012. We have informed the European Union of... That's what's following us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They accepted it. And with this program, our mission plan framed for what we should do next year. As a rule, we put emphasis on the quality of the audit. In order to be a quality review, we put a second emphasis on the education of personnel, filling preferably more of those that are unfulfilled, etc. However, implementation of the Action Plan of the Office spends part of its time in curbing corruption. The continuous education of personnel is being conducted, because we cannot do without the world standards and our Europeans the way they do in the world, and this changes every day. Right now, something's changing a little bit in our standards that we've accepted. We must translate them, make them and see how applicable they are to our audit, to our conditions and to our possibilities. We continue to cooperate with bodies of professional, scientific institutions. In doing so, we must always take care of the independence of the audit to which we can give information all this up to... in the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are developing cooperation with the institutions of the State Audit in EUROSAI,... international institutions as well as countries for the purposes of others, in order to improve the quality of our own. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, we must continue the process of modernising the information system, connecting it with other public sector information systems at national level, local levels with the aim of ensuring a high level of application technically... When we can, we have the possibility to connect with all other institutions, especially the audit entities will be much simpler, because we will be able to devote more time to data checks, and less field tasks, field data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's how much I'm gonna say. I thank you for your attention. I'm here, we can give an answer to any asked question of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48763	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? The defense committee? The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development? The Development and Reconstruction Committee? The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48764	Mr. Vice President, the state's chief auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Once a year, when we discuss the findings of the State Audit Office, we actually open for the first time the opportunity to see how public money was spent in one year, i.e. that taxpayers know that incomes from taxes, contributions and other revenues have been spent in Croatia. So, one very important debate held once a year in the Croatian Parliament. As in earlier years, we at the SDP club are estimating these reports very high-quality. From the report on the work of the State Audit Office itself, we highlight the importance of a strategic plan based among other things and on the analysis of the results of the twinning projects that were successfully implemented two years ago, which aims at increasing the quality of the audit, raising the professional and ethical quality of auditors and ensuring a high degree of application of technical achievements, computer techniques and tools in the implementation of the audit. We also point out the importance of internal audit carried out through the Department for Internal Audit in the Office itself, and through internal audit procedures, the consistency in the application of plans, procedures, regulations, standards and guidelines in the conduct of operations is checked. During a relatively short period, a significant number of national auditors who carry out quality audits and educational tasks have been trained. The office has significant results on the international agenda, in particular on activities related to Croatia's preparations for membership in the European Union. The volume of work in 2009 was seen through data that 546 entities were audited, i.e. over 175 billion kuna of public funds. The quality and impact of the office on the business of the audited entities is given by the increasing number of entities receiving the unconditional opinion of the audit. However, the largest number of subjects still receive a conditional opinion and concerns the fact that certain irregularities are not eliminated for years. Analysing the findings of the State Audit Office only on several segments in this shorter presentation, I will look back at the state budget and budget users, and this can be found to improve internal control systems, that some users do not have full financial plans or that such plans are unrealistic, i.e. no rebalancing, that in accounting business the most frequent observations refer to an incomplete list of assets and liabilities and non-compliance with the accounting and real situation, that expenditure records are in cash, that expenditure records are recorded on cash flow rather than on the resulting commitment. Such obligations are normally transferred within the following year, so they are not recorded as a current year deficit if there is insufficient income. So as soon as there's not enough revenue, they're not even paid, so as such they're not even recorded. Not all legal measures shall be taken to collect claims and excess the planned expenditure and shall also be carried over in the following year, so the same case as when you do not register or do not pay and do not record the resulting obligation. Something about this is also the fact that over 9 billion kuna tax contributions are currently not charged in the state budget, so it should also be seen why they do so, i.e. why they allow economic operators not to pay taxes and obligations over a long period of time. Public procurement procedures suggest improvement in this area, but still have objections to the avoidance of competitions and direct contracts. I would single out a report from the Education and Education Agency that refers to the value of a textbook that is higher than the value of textbooks delivered to schools and is not a final account. For example. In the case of two publishers, the contracted discount is not accounted for. The amount for the purchase of textbooks is 380 million kuna. He was contracted with a direct contract, so no final account was made. By revising the state budget, the office finds that financial reports do not provide complete information on property, liabilities and sources of ownership, that the State Treasury system records business events according to the principle of cash flow, and not on the principle of time of commitment, so what we insist on from the opposition is a deficit as shown to us by the final calculation of the budget. Then to a non-compliance of public debt records. For example. In the finance ministry, a public debt of 91,108 billion was recorded, and in balances with only 63,265 billion kuna. There was no effective record of the claim and of the obligation to sell dwellings on which there was a household law. Almost the same or similar observations relating to the state budget have been made in previous audits, so we consider it necessary to act more quickly on the state audit's stated tasks. In recent years, the office has more frequently audited companies in state, mainly state or local ownership, and projects related to pre-accession funds of European funds. Given the value, especially state-owned companies, and the importance of their business, we assess the real need for them to be revised more frequently, preferably every year, regardless of the legal obligations they have through commercial or business audits. In this respect, the need to amend the Law on State Audit should also be considered, therefore, that the annual audits of state-owned societies in which, just in recent months, various affairs have been emerging without the revision of the local self-government which is often available only with several million kunas of public funds each year. In 2009, the office audited its operations for 2007 with 9 companies in state or mainly state ownership. The latest revision of these companies, by the state audit, was made for the period 2003 and 2004. These companies have an asset of HRK 160.3 billion. Basic capital... in the amount of $113.6 billion, and 14 thousand 246 employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This information concludes the importance of these companies for the State and for its supervision of their operations. The findings of the State audit on the revision of these companies can be established as follows. Some companies do not have a complete internal control system or do not implement it at all. Some companies do not provide adequate care for the collection of claims or sell without a public tender, and this is particularly true of forest products. Some companies don't have records of official vehicles. Significant amounts are paid for promotions, advertising, sponsorship, donations, while there are not enough funds for regular business. Irregularities in investment in long-term assets are e.g. in the manner in which the transactions under the contractors are dealt with, the agreed deadlines are not respected, additional works not provided for in the project documentation shall be paid. Some societies don't have a supply plan. The procurement shall be made without the application of the prescribed procedures and a disorderly record of public procurement. I would single out a report for Croatia's electricity industry, which spent 332 million kuna through the public procurement process, and did not bring in a procurement plan. It is an interesting case related to the Plomin thermal power plant, where a foreign investor withdraws funds and withdraws 47.6m euros through dividend payment, which is 86% more than his invested assets, and this is not in line with the contract under which the Plomin thermal power plant, after the settlement of its liabilities to the foreign partner and the business cost coverage, cannot pay the dividend until it has settled its obligations to Croatia. But, for example, HEP's claims amount to 640 million kuna, and so far he has managed to charge only 86 million kuna. It is also an interesting example of "Croatian highways" where with the basic Agreement on the annual construction of highways, nine additional contracts are concluded, which change project solutions, at the request of the performer and contract additional works. The audit finds that this increased the basic contracted price by 62 million kuna, while at the same time correcting the savings of 21.8 million kuna. Assessing the 2009 report on the work of the State Office and the 2008 audit reports on the quality and acceptable SDP club will vote for their acceptance, but at the same time we will propose several specific conclusions. Therefore, with the conclusion that a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2009 and the audit reports is accepted, we propose the following: that the reports of the State Audit Office shall be submitted to the competent authorities and institutions in order to establish possible criminal or criminal offences. To task the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit to the Croatian Parliament within 60 days a programme for the long-term removal of the audit of identified irregularities that are repeated. This is the report we received last year, but we see that certain remarks and orders are repeated and in the 2008 review report, and we think that this conclusion should continue to stand. It shall also propose within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament for the discussion and adoption of the amendment and addition of the Law on State Audit in a way that ensures that companies owned or weighted by the State are audited each year. This stems precisely from the need to receive up-to-date audit reports for these 7.8 large state-owned companies. And fourthly, it is up to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly within 90 days on the established criminal or criminal offences on the basis of such reports of the State Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48765	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48766	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam State Auditor, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So by following in recent days some state bodies' activities, one would say somehow that we don't need a state audit. Why? The state audit finds it's more or less okay, it's an alibi for something else, and then we see what everything just opens up. Croatia is falling apart, in a way and under the burden of crisis and conversion and crime and economic collapse, and I'm afraid we may reach the bottom in this year. Now the question is, who's responsible for all this? Clear politics, I don't know, someone will tell the opposition, the state bodies, not to list all these others. We see a state audit entering every municipality with 500, 800, 1000 inhabitants, and in companies with thousands of employees of what Mrs. Zgrebec said was not. Or, for example, in our shipyards, but about that later. However, there are interesting moments here and I will first quote page 8 of the household law where it is literally said, quote: "Yes, in 2008, the state budget paid incomes from the sale of dwellings on which there was a tenant right of 226 million kuna." Why am I saying that, gentlemen? We have one category of so-called. Protected by tenants, there are some 3 to 4 thousand who fear every day whether the owners of nationalized apartments will throw them out on the street, whether they will have mercy on them, or whether they will depose them. 226 million 331 thousand 638 kuna and 99 limes were paid on the basis of housing rights according to the 2008 State Audit in the State Budget. Which will say that it's about 30.31.32m euros, and if we split it by 1000 euros per square metre, it means in one year up to 31 thousand square meters of living space, 400 to 500 apartments, we could settle it in one year with the full compensation of former owners. This is how we just drive people to uncertainty, throw them into the streets, treat these protected tenants worse than those dogs who, fortunately, have asylum in Dubrovnik, and these people have nothing. I agree that the owners there in the '40s, the '50s, were made an enormous accident, but some people in those apartments are 50, 60, 65, I don't know how many years, and if they were to be deposed, they'd be even more harmful, or injustice. Imagine someone throwing someone out on the street. Where are your men going? It's just under the tram. And that problem, I say, is possible to solve. The more the tenants would pay for something, as clearly as everyone else, the more we see from this report, that of those 226 million kunas at the disposal of these amounts in favour of the state and their needs leave 5 million 766 thousand kuna. I personally want to believe that through one such form, we could completely solve this problem that has been quiet for 20 years. I quote p. 12: "State budget for 2008.", meaning 17 divisions in brackets, "the funds are planned for payments according to court rulings, executions and settlements totalling 328 million kuna, and expenditures amounting to 277 million kuna have been made. The budget stock account records 176 million kuna, totalling 454 million kuna." That's how much it costs some people in the administration who don't do their job properly. If we add up some moments of corruption and damage to bad laws, it is certain that these 300 million kunas can also be multiplied by 10. If the state had good laws, correct executioners, if everyone did their job. If it changed, and in the people of logic, we wouldn't do anything, or hotels, or factories, or pipelines, I think it would be better. Or, in 2010, domestic liabilities of the central state amount to $13.4 billion, plus €5.4 billion or cca 18.9 billion. In 2009, foreign liabilities amounted to 7 billion kuna and only 6.2 billion kuna domestic. And the former prime minister is gone. The total state in 2009 served and this is the period of this report 13.2 billion kuna, with no external commitments, and in 2010, as much as 18.9 billion kuna. And I say that so much is lost because of an anti-entrepreneurship climate, because of unemployment, because of everything else, because of the relationship to foreign investment, and the result may be that it will be worse than it is in this country, and unfortunately, in a few years, we will have to sell ourselves cheaper. On page 14, which is referred to as State guarantees, I quote: “that according to the records of the state guarantee sector, the total claims for payments at the end of 2008 were shown by a billion 987 million kuna, the principal of regular and tightened interest, as regards payments for legal persons in tourism at the end of 2008," no company in Istria received any guarantees on that basis, no economy 537 also received from Istria, and no one from Istria received any money for the agriculture of 292 million kuna, and no one from Istria received a single kuna, for the units of local (regional) self-government in the amount of 85.4 million kuna in Istria, and the Croatian Priva Fund for the privatisation of 15 million kuna. So once again state guarantees amounting to a billion 987 million kuna for agriculture, for the economy, for shipbuilding, for local self-government, etc. And then a man asks himself if anyone will answer for these two billion kunas de facto, they won't. In Podravka we see they call Mesic for one conversation, etc. And here there are a billion 987 million kunas in the game, so in 2008, there will be at least at least that many guarantees, and in 2010 with at least so many guarantees that will come on the charge and at least 4 and a half billion kunas of loans from the Croatian 5 shipyards, and in three years alone, we have gambled 6 billion kunas and if we do not reprogram our shipping obligations, it will be more than 10 billion kunas. And now let someone say that the whole government, plus the ruling majority, plus the rest of us aren't in the same boat. Why do I say that, if that ship doesn't matter who the captain was or was, submerged, so thank God we ended up swimming on land, I find it hard to believe that half of us are going to swim wet and half dry. What am I saying? It is not only the former prime minister's fault, but all those who followed him there and such a policy. But a lot has been inherited since the previous years, it needs to be fair. Page 25 of the book's 387.6 million kuna. It is said here that the purchase of textbooks was carried out through a direct emphasis procedure here is a direct contract in a negotiation procedure without prior publication of a call for competition under the provision of Article 12(6), paragraph 1. The public procurement law with 48 publishers concluded 52 contracts worth 387.6 million kuna of which 45 contracts worth 382.2 million kuna were concluded in early August 2007 and 7 contracts worth 5.3 million kuna concluded in September and October respectively. There are interesting reports from the Ministry of Justice and the Police, I don't want to talk about them, I don't want to talk about maritime, health care, we know what we can expect, but it's true that all these ministries are given so-called. Consensual opinion. Because of conditional opinions, some go to Remetinec, and those who should be sinless allow themselves to be deficient. And that double standard in Croatia should simply be avoided because it cannot rule that what God is allowed is not ox, God is always in Croatian power, the ox are those who are not in power, it is from the old Rome on here it looks the same, nothing is changed, however, let it go. With local self-government, the following is interesting, now I'm only going to say two sentences about the Istrian County. The arrival of the city of Pula 319 million kuna, without public enterprises, of the County of Istria 244.9 million kuna of Poreč 236 million kuna. What I'm saying is, the county's seen poor, they're without property, they don't have forest, agricultural land, okay, they don't have cities and municipalities, they don't have building land, they don't have their own buildings, they don't have apartments, they don't have anything, and it's time for that county position to just redefine to kind of strengthen them and try to "in some way" stand alone. It is time for Croatia to decentralisation because this rigid centralisation is ruining the country as a whole. When Croatia was fastest developed, I keep saying it by the terms of the 74th Constitution, what was created in the period 50th, 90th after that was privatized for the former social order we brought down ok, was created 10 times more than under this democracy of ours, and man asks himself the question of how, then who is there who he exploits. Here you see today being exploited or then said people exploited and who today. Then you got a social apartment because you were exploited and today for such an apartment you have to be in charge for 20 or 30 years to be free. Then they all came to work, they said they had to be obedient, and today, 310 thousand unemployed, and today we're no longer obedient, then we had more or less free, so we were unhappy, today when we have to pay everything we're happy, etc. Let's let it go now. Croatian highway, long-term assets 39 billion kuna, but the best is the next side 475. So it was expressed for the State Audit Office that the review of the financial reports of the Croatian Roads Society gave an unconditional opinion on why we replaced Livaković, Croatian road and so on. And now that we're talking about budget capacities, we're telling us how much money there is in this country. The state has 83.2% of budget receipts or 128 billion kuna. The city of Zagreb with 4.9% or 7.5 billion kuna, and all other local self-government and counties almost 600 11.9% or 18.3 billion kuna. Table number 7 pages 35, budget structure and that's the point. The state has a 100% VAT, 41 billion kuna, a 100% excise fee of 9 billion kuna, a 100% tax on profits of 10.5 billion kuna, a 100% contribution of 40.7 billion kuna. And there, through decentralisation, we need to try to redefine the relations between the state and local self-government, or everything that the state cannot, should be able to control whether the land, military, etc. and try something and through such a form in this country run. It's my fault that I can't talk about what Mrs. Zgrebec said about Plomin, the withdrawal win. But no matter what, I think this report is very useful and needs to be clearly accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48767	Thank you. The HDZ club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48768	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected state auditors with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The State Audit Office is an institution that the public expects much from. And for a reason. The work of the State Audit Office shall first influence the perception of public procurement. And the perception of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia is not very bright in public. They link her to corruption first. And therefore finds the State Audit Office if they are positive, good, advanced, better than in previous periods then they will help break such perceptions. Although they say it's harder to break perception and prejudice as negative as an atom. But little by little progress is visible. In addition to the findings, trends and tendencies are important. And it is evident that trends and trends are positive in the field of public procurement. The truth is that there are also findings that point to repeat errors, the truth is that there are those who are inadmissible to avoid being removed and that you, in earlier years, have given orders to remove irregularities, but yet it must be acknowledged that progress is visible in every respect. The work of the State Audit Office is extremely extensive and exhausting. It was only during this reporting period that 855 audits under the potential seemed to me 7000 and 500 and something. How much work it is for a state office that must certainly be strengthened by staff. 546 financial audits, 299 budget insights and the local unit financial report were carried out. Now that we're talking about local units, we should draw attention to the least progress being made by local units. To repeat errors when it comes to the number of orders and recommendations made in relation to the given ones is the largest one in local units. But it should also be pointed out that out of the total in 2009 531 findings and around 531 entities were given a total of 2 thousand 242 recommendations or a warrant, which is 26% less than in 2008. It's a really visible step in 2009. So 26% less recommendation and warrant than in 2008. Of these 2 thousand 242 more than 50% of the warrants were executed, i.e. a thousand 108 and 992 were in the process of execution. When compared to 2008 it was more unfavourable, in 2008, it was a more unfavourable situation when only 44% were executed a warrant and a recommendation. It should highlight positive examples, should also highlight those extremely negative examples. So from this review of the number of tasks and recommendations given to the types of subjects, it is evident that, in a positive sense, the predecessor of the Public Health Office, where from 60 orders and the recommendation of the last revision was made 59th and they are better than the average, while on average 4,20 orders for public health institutions were given to 21 entities, 60 orders were given. But a negative example should also be highlighted. I'm just going to do one example, the extremely negative one here pointed out, and that's the city of Zlatar. Three years in a row gets a negative opinion. This is something that needs special attention. It seems to me that the competent judicial authorities have already paid attention to that, but there are some things to be changed. It was pointed out here just before in the statements that many entities are late in claims in the collection of claims. So there is a situation that is really messy and makes business harder for all economic operators. For example. Here are two weeks ago, the city of Zagreb highlighted thousands and thousands of backlog accounts relating to 2008. The question is raised, and what is then with the obligation of VAT because, under the VAT Act, it is required immediately after the delivery of the goods to issue an account and to calculate VAT and pay VAT. Not to get into obsolescence, and many business entities don't count on it anymore. He wants to hope that someone at the communal waters will be invoiced from 2008. Hundreds of thousands of invoices are now overrun by business entities because later in invoices they are even not just in the collection of claims. So in local self-government there is obviously not a very high level of professionalism and business relations. Here it is expressed in 2009 107 unconditional opinions, or almost 20% of total and 434 conditional and in 2008 we had 501 conditional. So less conditional opinions than in 2008 and 5 unfavourable and in 2008. Seven unfavourable. So the tendency is really in the positive direction. What needs to be highlighted, and what we did last year, and personally, last year, I said the same mess of keeping a record of property. When it comes to property, then it's all about property and mobile and immovable. The property isn't even registered in bookkeeping and it's inadmissible, it has to be arranged as soon as possible. But what is equally important is that the accounting value of the recorded asset does not correspond to either the applicable value or the market value and it is necessary to revaluation of the value of the asset, it is necessary to revaluation of the compliance of the value with the current value in order to obtain a real picture of the state of the property in the public sector. The HDZ Club supports this report but with that I would only point out because someone here mentioned the need to amend the State Audit Act. The report shows that the State Audit Office is working extremely with all and scientific institutions academic but also all judicial institutions. However, there is one article that may have to be taken into account when it comes to the Penal Code that the State Audit Office is obliged to do so, to carry out an audit under the order of the DORH. This provision is contrary to the State Audit Act, so perhaps you should consider it. Of course, the State Audit is working with the DORH and all reports are delivered to the DORH but the provision is that it is required to go to audit under the order of the DORH contrary to the State Audit Act. It is therefore necessary, on several sides, to consider the need to amend the Law on State Audit. So, the HDZ club supports, accepts the report and commends the work of the State Audit Office and cannot in the end, there are no colleagues Caine but I would still tell him that he should not regret those former times because there are also those who have failed to get apartments because they were not politically alike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48769	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48770	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the state's chief auditor with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is at the beginning of the debate on this Review Report what I can say is that as well as my colleagues from the SDP Club, of course I will support the report and I consider it very valuablely composed, huge material that consists of ten parts, each has a hundred pages probably around a thousand and a half pages. So that's where the big one was supposed to be to make it all together. What's important is that the revision controls this report close by seems like a hundred and 80 billion kuna to me. This is about 60% of GDP, and then you can see how important this institution is and how important it is for the public to receive information through the institution how budgets are spent, whether everything is in accordance with the law and whether everything is done in the best way. 279 employees, or 225 auditors, who are doing this job, I find a huge job insufficient, and I think our duty here and in Parliament is to give more support to that institution in some way to better team up, to have more people on the ground who could then include as many audits as possible. Someone has already mentioned, and my main suggestion is that once a certain level of work of smaller beneficiaries of the budget is established, I am primarily referring to units of local self-government that are spending a million, two, three, five kunas that should not be required, although the law thus defined to go to the control of them each year or to revise their documents. Unfortunately, we see by the number of conditional opinions that it is still not a very large percentage in the municipalities, the cities of those who receive unconditional opinion but will probably be slightly improved in the coming years so there will be conditions that not every year a certain municipality that has a million kuna budgets will have to be controlled and on the other hand not to enter the companies for years and billions of kunas pass there. So I agree with the fact that either the conclusion or even the law should introduce a provision whereby companies carrying out traffic of more than 50 million kunas would necessarily have to be audited each year. The conclusion that this is necessary is from the fact that a part of it is dedicated to companies, meaning that nine companies have not received an unconditional opinion. So there are legitimate shortcomings in their business and, of course, we may have to control them more closely for the next few years. On the other hand, 19 billion kunas have been controlled in these nine companies, which is more than for all others, or for all local units of local self-government. Local self-government units had about 18.3 billion and only these nine companies controlled 19 billion kunas. And then, of course, the conclusion is that we need to focus our attention where there are more resources or, unfortunately, over the past few years, we have witnessed numerous affairs that are going towards the fact that there have been many irregularities in these companies. What I'm trying to say is that with the control of legality, it wouldn't be a bad thing if the revision had maybe one part that refers to economic justification. We are quite often witnessing that many get to do so by law, so there is no objection, the revision is not there to establish who in which way sold it and what was the market price but it might not be bad if one part of the purchase was controlled in such a way as to see it and that the revision that its opinion was being used in the most optimal way because in the purchase there were quite often cases that we bought some goods, that everything was in accordance with the law and that it was overpaid double. So maybe one such addition wouldn't be bad, especially I'm talking about public enterprises that unfortunately have been the generator of these affairs in the past year. What I still want to point out is that the review keeps doing things every year, but orders aren't being executed. We are already a little tired of reading all these ministries that have received conditional opinions, from year to year making the same mistakes, and no corrections, no changes are made. I'd like to see, at least I don't expect that, if the minister were a conditional opinion, something couldn't have been removed that year. But if it's repeated year after year, then I expect at least management directors to be changed, those people who are directly responsible for these irregularities. And we have a situation that certainly out of the 15 ministries that are being processed here, 10 are from year to year among conditional opinions, and every year they seem to be doing the same miss. So here's my conclusion at the end of this debate, I'm going to be a little shorter, thumb up for the state's review, I need to give them more support, more people, and maybe more content should work these reports, so that economically looking at certain and acquisitions and investments so that we can suggest and we can see maybe not just legally where certain irregularities occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48771	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48772	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you've well warned about some of the things in the audit report, but I would perhaps like to take this last addition of yours. Even in the things the revision finds out that they were not in accordance with the law, nothing happens later, and I think that's the biggest problem. They'd say my mom's in Dalmatia gets eaten by a donkey wolf. Some of us, and I belong to the group myself, have for years warned of circus and crime in the textbook business. That the ministry has negotiated with publishers, and not negotiated, we now have evidence of an audit finding that says that more value has been invoiced and paid than goods have been delivered. I'm asking who's going to answer for what's damaged the state budget. And that's the problem. It's not even a problem in things that the revision registers as bad, as illegal, but as people who do illegal acts but nothing happens. Specifically textbooks. Paid 100, delivered 80. Nothing to anyone. And it's still not respected public procurement. Nothing to anyone. And when we say that as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, I said it myself, you get a threat from the minister. And that's the former minister. And that's the problem, and I hope that based on the conclusion proposed by the SDP club then there will be some reports and some kind of reaction from the State's Attorney's office, but also from the government itself for these naughtys who don't respect the law and who literally do damage to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48773	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48774	Thank you very much. Comrade Lugarić, you have just mentioned the real problem of the revision, you have found irregularities. I am convinced, this can be confirmed by the rapporteur of this report, that these reports go in this even wider scope, to the State's Attorney's office. Why nothing's going on, that's a really good question. Here's another example from the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. The license plate surveillance system hasn't been delivered, paid. So what business and when anyone does that to pay for a favor before getting a delivery, which is not defined by the contract. If the contract had been defined then the question would only be asked who is making the arrangements to pay in advance, and he doesn't have to pay until he's delivered. I don't say advance some given, but there are dozens of such things in the audit report. No one has ever answered for it, no procedure has been initiated on this basis, and I know that it is very likely, as these reports are available to us, probably to the institutions of this country who are responsible for it. Which is why, if it's political pressures, if it's who knows what I can't get in, but the fact is nothing's happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48775	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48776	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam State Auditor with your associates. 175 billion kuna is the value of state money controlled by the state audit in 855 entities with 546 audits. What saddens me and I must always repeat that only 107 unconditional opinions have been given, even 444 conditionals and that is almost 80% and 5 unfavourable. As always, I am interested first in what these are that have received unfavourable opinions in this report. The town of Zlatar, in itself, was not such a big problem, that this was not the third time, the third state audit report where one and the same unit of local self-government was given an unfavourable opinion. This proves that after the first unfavourable finding, the state attorney's office did not do its job in time, because that same person, these same people, couldn't do it twice and three times again. Galovac municipality, I, if I remember correctly, is also a repeater. The municipality of Sibinj, the fire department of Sisak and the municipal companies Dobrić from Trogir. I have sent to the procedure a written proposal for a conclusion which I propose to the Parliament that we ask the State's Attorney's Office to inform us within 60 days of what he has taken in these five cases because I know that the State's audit after the completion of the processing of its findings and opinions delivers to the State's attorney. So, the state's attorney's office has had enough time to take the necessary actions and now it's time for the Croatian Parliament to report to my court, which was found there and what they've taken. Of 35 users of the state budget, 15 unconditional, 21 conditional. This unconditional opinion I always mark myself with green, conditional yellow, and unfavourable in black. What the state audit marked four years ago or me in their report to yellow is subject to a large number of investigations by USKOK and the state's attorney's office. What is yellow in this report will be the subject of the processing of USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office for a year two. And that's always because, in my opinion, we don't pay enough attention to this report, and especially because all governments, I repeat this to all governments, are easily crossing the findings and findings of the State Audit, and it was never heard to note that anyone was held responsible for what was available to his ministry, agency, office or public enterprise for 3.4 years in parallel to parole, and most often because of repeated errors in public procurement, whether available to other assets. So long that due to the State Audit findings, there will be no shifts, cancellations, discharges from the State Service will not be sufficient respect for state auditors. Which is those 21 parolees that are particularly worrying me. The Agency for Education and Education, it was the agency that bought you school textbooks on the burden of the State budget. And they got a job between the other two bidders because they were more favourable, because they offered discounts, the textbooks were delivered, the invoices were exposed but forgot to calculate the discount. And for a wonderful miracle, the agency paid those bills without a discount. In one such publisher, the discount was supposed to be about 2 million kuna, the other was about 170,000 if I wasn’t wrong. How is it possible that in the State Agency that made a deal with that 2 million-dollar publisher, and they see that there are no calm souls on the invoice and only a state audit has to ask and people where the discount is, there's nothing and nobody. $2 million isn't big money. Yeah. Croatian Forests, and here, Madam State Auditors, I believe you were a very gentle supervisor. I quote: "For the payment of claims for transfer of property rights and the rights of service incurred from the beginning of 2002 to the beginning of 2007 in the total amount of HRK 47 million, you do not take collection measures, such as sending notices, calling for payment, and the initiation of court proceedings". They got only conditional opinions, 47 million kunas, Croatian forests are looking for someone and they didn't even send notices out to collect those debts. I guess they had extra money, so they were afraid of having too much business, so they didn't charge the claims. If I were you, I'd give an unfavourable opinion about it. It's too much money. The forest advisory service under the letter of Law 0.07% of every company in Croatia pays compensation for the general useful function of the forest. They picked up 89.5 million kuna from the title of that contribution, and by law they spent only 6 million, I repeat, of 89.5 million for a purpose of spending 6 million. According to the law, the company of the Croatian Forests is obliged to use that money, invest in forests with relatively owning shares of state property and forest owners. According to official data, 22% of the forests in Croatia are private property. Which means 22% of these 89.5 million were to be invested in private forests through the forest advisory service. But that's not the end of it. Under the same law of the Croatian Forests, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was to submit a report each year (a) to collect this contribution and (b) to the method of spending these funds. Croatian forests have not delivered this report to the government or the government has accepted their report, and the money used under the law has been blessed, agreed with the illegal use of funds. And here I think you should go with an unfavourable opinion because of the future and the warning is working. When I add these two items together it's 120, 130 million kunas used and spent by law, only in one vault and no one answered. I'm afraid not. What are the public companies with a yellow signal and in this report? Croatian roads, Croatian highways, Croatian electricity industry, Croatian railways, highway Zagreb-Rijeka. See the State Commission's public procurement report from the other day, compare those lists and again the same. Thank you for your efforts and for the abundance of data you give us in particular on fiscal capacity, local self-government, regional, state-of-the-art use of the budget, are very useful. But I insist that the purpose of your work and the debate on this report must be the consequence that where the conditional opinion is held responsible people cannot remain on the duties or the work they do, then all together and this debate will have...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48778	Time. Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first is the honourable representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, under the impression of what you were talking about in public procurement, and since we have just finished a session of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, and Mrs. Chief State Auditor has just highlighted in her opening speech the problem of public procurement as one of the problems to which the state audit indicates, I would like to emphasise how many times you have advocated that this opinion of the state audit is respected in a way that is based on it to initiate certain processes that will prevent even afterwards happen again. The proof that we didn't stick to it is exactly what you were talking about. So, Croatian roads, Croatian highways, Croatian railways have repeatedly repeated themselves in the State Audit reports, and today we saw in the report of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures that precisely these companies are listed as the ones where public procurement procedures are most frequently annulled. ... we have the information to cancel 5% of public procurement procedures, and that this is actually worth a third of the total public procurement in Croatia. And finally, they could only be pleased to hear that on the basis of the 2007 State Audit Report, The County State Attorney's Office has requested the Administration of Public Procurement to control and audit the procedures in order to operate this one vertical which should prevent corruption. I think it's the right way, so by reading the State Audit reports, to establish these verticals, the jump-starter verticals that I'm going to call her that will finally stop billions of public procurement from pouring into someone's private pockets. And that is exactly what you most often talked about both in this assembly and at the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48780	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48781	Dear fellow Jovanovic that this cancer is our wound and problem of public procurement always, and especially because in a few days we are discussing a series of these documents that prove that we should not only read the number of public procurements that are problematic, but their total value, especially now, which turns out to be a third of the total public procurement in Croatia, according to the Commission's data. But allow only two more examples of how state property is used. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 5.5 million kuna contracts spent in one year past the law. In that ministry, they made more contracts on the work than they hired. The Ministry of Health was unable to register and enter into books construction buildings and land worth 62 million kuna. It's a solid hospital. So as soon as there's no inventive value in books of such great value, I'm asking the question is it possible that that 62 million people take away that the deficit won't even be seen... I think it would be very good for ministers besides vaccinations to take care of the assets they have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48782	Thank you. There is a replica of the distinguished representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48783	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Lesar, when you talk about Croatian forests, it's not this part of the problem that applies, I think the problem is this debt, or that the Croatian forests did not look for land. However, you have another illogicality there where for the construction of a golf course in Istria for Skipper was calculated for the first time by 19 million kuna, so that in the second, according to the Ministry of Regional Development and Forestry, it would be calculated for 10 limes per square metre. The state auditor herself noted in her report that it is illogical for Croatian forests to earn, so to speak, the state land of 10 limes per square metre, while at the same time buying from these funds land worth 7 kuna per square metre. And as for... Unfortunately, the regulation only existed internally, which speaks of the use of resources of generally useful forest functions and logic is that 22% although private forests are likely to continue to invent forests in Croatia would be in this ratio and more. But the problem is that there is no proper regulation that will speak and tell which jobs and what breeding works are used by those funds paid by all legal entities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48784	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48785	Yes, a respected colleague, on one side of Croatia's forest, did not collect 47 million kunas of claims while failing to pay dues to the Ministry of Finance loans for 24 million kunas. If they'd charged these 47 million they'd probably have returned this 23 million in time to Minister Shuker. And when it comes to the forest advisory service, the State Audit has clearly written the following, quote "The service of its activities should focus on the performance of the basic tasks for which it was established.". So is it possible that the State Audit must teach experts in forestry what the meaning of the Forest Law is, why the fee is introduced, why compensation for the general usefulness of the forest can be used and that if it wants to continue to collect money it uses. Or we'd better suggest that 0,07% of business contributions be abolished because this finding is proof that this money is not needed for forests, to be used for other purposes as well. So let's get rid of the economy for this 90 million because you've proven to the state's auditors that they're not able to use the money by the letter of the law. Anti-recession measures, aid to the economy, let's cancel 0.07% of the contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48786	Thank you. We have another replica of Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48787	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar, you have pointed out the problem of conditional or unconditional as you have proposed opinions in the event that the procedures for the collection of the claims have not been taken. If that were the case, I believe it would be if I didn't say over 60, 70% of the unconditional opinions in the audit report. I mean, I guess most of my other colleagues look first and foremost at my county. And here I saw inside Vukovar-Srijem County so four cities of Ilock 2 million 730 and some thousands, Vukovar 4 million, Island 4 million 400, County 4 million 900, and here is the municipality of Ivankovo as one of the largest over a million kuna. Therefore, outstanding claims for which no measures have been taken or warnings have been sent and no further action has been taken. I would agree that conditional opinion is a good measure with what is seen as being shown in the audit report. In fact, it's about saying a mistake that hasn't been made because it's an error of inaction and an audit finding should be enough to make it serious to say so to the administrations of cities and municipalities that are concerned with taking action because it only goes in favor of them. So here I say in these five units of local self-government 17 million kunas in Vukovar-Srijem County and other municipalities have a similar problem. In fact, they need to take action, but I think it's enough that the audit has just given a conditional opinion, and that's why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48788	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48789	My colleague, I agree with you, but there is another problem. Let's try to answer together the question of what the representative body in the town of Zlatar, the municipality of Galovac and the municipality of Sibinj did when it received the state audit report. Did the representative bodies replace the leaders because of unfavorable opinions, initiate any actions? No, they're not. They probably did not even consider these reports, perhaps even hidden from them, and so it is vital that the authorities prosecuted or investigated such as USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office at least in those unfavourable opinions be guaranteed, guaranteeing that things will be cleared up to the end. But the fact is that such conditional opinions are also received by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and no one from the government is going to follow this debate, send a message to the local and regional self-government units, whatever these Shimina auditors find put in a drawer, shut up, don't wave, never ask you anything, because we don't want to single out the most critical points and deal with them, but we're trying to blur things out by looking for I don't know what kind of reports from the government itself. Five, six shifts in the government, resolute ministries, local self-government annually, the biggest contribution from the state audit office to the legal use of the country's citizens' money.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48790	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 15 hours and 12 minutes. We're continuing an individual debate. It is next to the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48791	Thank you very much, Vice President. State audit is one of the pillars of society. Along with the Croatian Parliament, with the Croatian government, with the president of the Republic, the state lawyer and governor of the National Bank there is also a state audit. On what basis is this important pillar resting? Without what would this pillar collapse, and without what does it cease to make sense? That's trust. In public, there must be trust in the state audit in society. There's no one to revise the audit. The audit shall report to this House. In this House is the final decision to trust you or not to trust you. An audit that the public wouldn't trust would be unnecessary. She would have her own purpose, she wouldn't reveal anything, she wouldn't send anything, she wouldn't actually have any sense of purpose in any way. It would be just another wheel in the mechanism of concealing corruption and crime in this country and it would be as if those wheels were small. Is there trust in the state audit? For 15 years, the State Audit has been conducted by the same person and 15 years in this House is given confidence, not only in the reelection but in the adoption of the annual reports. The annual reports of the State Audit in this House shall be adopted unanimously. This shows a really high level of trust in the State Audit. All these years, therefore, there was trust, and in 2005 there was also a report for the audits carried out in 2004. I also had until an unpleasant surprise event four years later when it was found that the State Audit had not fully informed the Croatian Assembly of the unpleasant event. It's about getting 36 trucks in the Moreh. The Parliament's Investigation Commission was opened to investigate the case and, of course, reviewed the State Audit report, even more so asked for a full report from the State Audit. Not only did he rely on reviewing the 2004 report, which came to the Assembly four years earlier, but it sought it by way of the official route again and received it, reviewed and reached some conclusion. The conclusion was that the revision in this respect did not find any irregularities in the MRLs. And then, by chance, a complete report or a broader report in the paper appeared in the paper. What did it say in that broader report? What was the sentence there that didn't come to the Parliament? There was a statement that Minister Roncevic willingly ordered the purchase of a truck from Eurokamion, and that was the reason that it was the most favourable offer, and he did not explain it to anything. That's the line the Parliament didn't see. Okay, so the apology was the one that always sends short reports to the Assembly because the full report has 20,000 pages. All right, that's understandable. But when the investigation committee was set up for this particular case, it asked the review to send the report back to him again, a report without that key sentence. It's back to a short report. There has been, as we know, a dispute between the State Audit and the State's Attorney's Office who's being deceived here, who hasn't been supplied with complete data and we've read about it in the paper. A colleague, Jovanovic, says today that the county state's attorneys are starting to act on the findings of the State Audit and are going to question the ones you gave a negative assessment. That's good, that's stronger confidence in the State Audit. It's a good thing the state's attorneys finally remembered they were doing that. But that fight between you and Mr. Bajic over the truck shows something else. How do the state's attorneys react if they claim they're not informed of you? How does the Croatian Parliament conclude anything if it receives an incomplete report? How can an investigative committee carry out its investigation if on an explicit request, but just on express request, you send a brief report to that committee. It's just a short cut, not a complete one. Such events are in a position to rock the key foundation of the pillar of this society called the State Audit. That foundation, I said, is trust. If that trust disappears, your job is meaningless and in vain. With all the hard work I'm asking myself now, here's this report, I'm now wondering which parts of it were cut short like the MORH's short trucks? What exactly is the truth? Because if there was such a reduction as in the MORH case later, if there are any in this report then we will never know the full truth about your audit. I'm not saying there are, I'm not saying there's one in there that's such a cut, but this precedent that happened, which has shown that the State Audit isn't exactly willing to cooperate, not even with the Assembly's investigative committee if it threatens one minister, is a bad sign. That's a bad sign. We said on behalf of the club that we would accept this report. We'll take it. Mrs Krasic, we will accept it as we have accepted all of it. But I sincerely hope that the example of the truck won't happen again in any other case. We must be able to believe, we must have reason to believe that you will deliver complete, complete, accurate, impartial information to this parliamentary body, to this Parliament even when it is unpleasant to this or that minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48792	Thank you. We have one replica. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48793	Dear fellow Stazic, I would like to complete here with a question that unfortunately has been coming to me lately. And this is that when the State Audit makes its findings, and the State Audit except for the short report, it provides all the full reports to the Croatian Parliament to the competent state attorneys, so the municipal and county state attorneys are therefore fully receiving reports, except for reports relating therefore to specific structures such as the Ministry of State and the military. However, here I have experienced on my personal skin recently that cooperative institutions such as the police have no confidence in the State Audit. And that police are acting in investigations where the State Audit finds that everything is fine without acting where the State Audit year after year indicates that local, regional, regional self-government and ministries are experiencing various irregularities. So the police determine their discretion or have a discretionary decision on who and how they will act and supplement and invent findings and reports, and they don't trust the State Audit. The state audit has had one big positive thing in recent years, i.e. from the moment it was established, which is that it defines some practice of dealing with certain situations, such as local self-government. Unfortunately, the police are going against it completely, and the police are doing various constructions to accuse them of doing absolutely nothing to justify the doubts raised in their reports by the State Audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48794	Time. Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48795	I really don't know why police and interior minister Karamarko don't trust the State Audit to the point where he behaves exactly the opposite of what the audit suggests, so he goes to investigate why the audit says it's okay and he doesn't go to investigate what the audit says is wrong. But I think this case of yours, the Koprivnica case, is a little bit atypical. You know, the State Audit probably rightly found that this was about selling a property on an island, and the law says that the property must be sold when the local self-government unit sells it at a public tender and at a market price. You sold it at a public tender and at a market price and therefore Karamarko haunts you. It looks about like this to me like in the Road Traffic Act it's prescribed to drive on the right side of the street, so then the police pick you up against you because you were driving on the right side of the street. That's about what it looks like. Not just that. After that sale, you also informed the State Attorney's Office that represents the interests of the Republic in civil matters to check that the purchase is okay. And for three years, nothing has happened, for three years, until the interior minister must have turned to you because of some balance among politicians. I am convinced that this misunderstanding and injustice that seems to you will soon be corrected and explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48796	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And now we have an individual debate, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48797	Honorable Vice President, respected state auditors with associates. Annual Report of the State Audit Office for both 2009 and a series of previous ones deserves unconditional opinion. The report on audits carried out shows that, during the period from 1 October 2008 to 30 September 2009, public funds of HRK 176 billion are controlled, which is more than 50% gross domestic product. It is obvious that the State Audit Office as an independent and independent expert body is, in fact, the strongest link in the chain of public money control, and thus the revision is also an area of very significant potential to combat corruption. In this regard, the report noted that during the reporting period, the State Office for Auditing of 103 cases co-operated, directly co-operated in the repression of corruption. However, in recent years, there has been a need to make a kind of qualitative step, perhaps even in terms of amending the Law on Audition, which was spoken of by colleague Zgrebec, and all to result in an even more visible reduction in the number of irregularities and illegalities on the ground, i.e. that these irregularities would not be repeated in such a size as the present case. For the last 15 years, the State Review has established numerous irregularities and illegalities in the field. What is particularly true for 2009 is the best evidence that out of the 546 audit opinions on the business of entities at the state and local level, 107 or 19% were unconditional. There's not a lot of negative opinions, there's five of them all. But it's definitely concerned with the number of 434 conditional opinions, which is almost 80% of the total. And that percentage of more or less problematic subjects is actually constant year by year. Therefore, there is a reduction in the number of irregularities in a number of subjects, with the fact that the office itself finds the largest reduction recorded in entities where the revision is repeated each year. However, a large number of subjects are incorrigible and persists in showing the same gaps. In particular, in the reports of the audit carried out in the context of identified irregularities in the business of entities, the State audit shall also give orders and recommendations for correcting irregularities in order not to repeat them. And that's actually where this instructive role of the review comes into play. Of course, the State Audit shall monitor the performance of the tasks and recommendations issued and the following audit report shall specify the tasks and recommendations under which it has been followed, and shall also indicate those which have not been followed. For the 531 audited entity in 2009, i.e. in the 2009 Report, the State audit issued 2242 orders and recommendations or an average of 4 orders per audited entity. Unfortunately, unlike an audit report from earlier years, which presented information on the extent of the tasks and recommendations issued in the previous audit and carried out in this report, there is little harm. However, it is data from previous years that gives us the right to think that much of the warrants and recommendations have not been carried out in 2009 or ignored. The work of professional people paid by taxpayers is ignored, in order to re-exploit and spend budget money next year, detecting the same irregularities. Obviously, then, something has to change, so it can't stay about that people's dog barking, and the caravans pass. The direct cause for this debate about ignoring the warrants and recommendations of state audit and recurrence of errors is, in fact, a special part of the audit report, that is, the one from which the official secret was removed, which includes the three ministries, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, so that this last ministry in 2009, too, therefore, received a conditional audit opinion, while earlier years received unconditional opinion. The Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior are in the right sense the words of two Croatian executive infants when it comes to money management of Croatian citizens, which are actually two giants who employ over 50,000 people. The defence ministry has over 22,000 employees, and the MUP has nearly 24 thousand. In addition to regularly expressing their business losses, in 2009, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior 84 also concluded with a round of 160 million kuna losses. In fact, it's amazing that their perseverance and social insensitivity repeats the same gaps year after year. These ministries don't even know how much property they have today, because they still haven't completed a full list of assets after a series of warnings. The financial plan for these ministries is unknown, they do not plan revenues, but they do and they certainly spend. These ministries do not record hundreds of millions of commitments and material expenditures. Further material expenditures and liabilities incurred in the current year do not register in that same year, but transfer them in the following year, and thus actually show an unrealistic financial result. They do not have persistent records by means of which a united monitoring of the execution of completed contracts for the purchase of goods, works and services would be carried out. In view of the loss of business, they do not implement austerity and more efficient business measures, as they take on new commitments and carry out expenditures above the amount of funds secured in the budget. In 2009, the foreign ministry joined the club, as I said earlier, with a conditional opinion. The reason for this is the accidental spending of the resources of the team and the dealings, so I'm going to say, "Smuggling with an alcoholic drink." The ambassadors indeed hold a good voice about Croatia. The State Audit Office finds most of these irregularities over and over again every year, but these ministries are literally deaf, literally nothing. And so we move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48798	Thank you. That's what ended the discussion individually. Does the proposaler's representative finally want to take the floor? Yeah. State audit, distinguished Ms. Šima Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here I am, as always, now it's over a little faster, I'm glad, I'd like to hear more suggestions, opinions, because we're each recording so that it can help us do more and better in the future, because no one's like that that can't work better. I always say that and I always think we can do more. I have no need to respond to any opinions, only here, I would now be given the opportunity to say about Mr. Stazic's statement. Once what happened. We've never done an audit on getting a truck. We were doing a review of the Department of Defense that had four and a half billion incomes that year. At the same time in the same year, there were planned purchases of up to 700 million kuna. Of which 260 million kunas were direct... what they have under the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say here that no opinion, no summary is different than what's in the full report, and it never happened. Nor has it been proven. So we have a report that's being delivered, we have opinions that are identical, that are given to the Parliament according to our standards, and whoever wants us to have full reports on our websites. We gave a conditional opinion to the Department of Defense for that year, and it may have partly influenced it because there were more purchases, not just trucks. The implementing procedure was in one procedure, it was annulled that by law there was no financial or legal effect, a decision was taken, it was followed by another procedure for these reasons. The auditor found facts. We, the auditor, have neither the knowledge nor the ability, nor the authority to verify the characteristics, etc., but the procurement procedures. It means she didn't get an unconditional opinion, that it wasn't said that the supply was okay. And besides, we emphasized because it wasn't agreed offset that year. Offset, up to 20%. And next year, the auditors were tasked with whether it was... , we had data that offset was used, that there was 16.2% of the price, that 5 and a half million kuna was paid, what the auditor could see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, no single information is denied to the state. As for the delivery of the report to other institutions, I don't like it, we're at the time of the review the president of the state commented on that part somewhere and we saw it in public, so that part after the audit we delivered to the president's office because he requested, described in the way the auditors did, so it already is. As far as the data is concerned, they've been on our pages, and I'm not going to talk here. Reports were submitted to all institutions on time. That year, the Council of the Republic of Croatia adopted the report, did not conclude that they were being delivered to anyone, however, it was common for these reports to be delivered. I also have the data, but when the situation occurred, because we didn't fight. We didn't fight with the State's Attorney's office, since it was so trying to show up in public, we just didn't say anything further. I brought the data to the board, I have four of these here, when it's served, when it was one. However, I do have to admit that we with the State's Attorney's Office and other institutions are working very well with each other. There's never been any problem. We even have a person in charge in front of the office, lawyers who co-operated continuously for all the data, and I pointed out today in 103 cases this year, during this reporting period we collaborated in a way that we have, what we can help and what we can give. Therefore, I can only say here that, never now or ever, no matter how pleasant or unpleasant the findings, they come before the Croatian Parliament, they come to local units, councils, congregations, councils of municipalities, cities and that is our task. It is a task to help laws, standards, regulations apply. It's an audit mission. And if that applies, there'll be fewer irregularities, we'll be more satisfied. Those who execute, and we who control, and probably those who pay taxes. I can only get here so much, there's never been a fight, but if the office had any damage, he suffered. If I were myself and I had stopped proving then what it was like, how it was, but on this committee, all this information that I have here was being delivered, so they didn't get an unconditional opinion and there were objections. The reference was made if the procurement was initiated by one procedure, the auditor’s opinion was that it had to be completed accordingly. But that's an opinion, the auditor can't order. Here, I apologize. It's my duty to say that because I really didn't have a chance to say that there was no hiding, no evidence at all, not even now. And why would he? When the minister gets the report and we analyze it together and we watch what we can and can do best. I'm always ready to talk about what can be done and how to get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48800	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48801	It's not entirely true that the full report came to the Bureau of Investigation. It came to our inquiry as a brief report, which left out the sentence that the minister had made a decision to buy a truck from Eurocamion, claiming it was the most favourable offer and that he did not explain it to anything. The sentence is in an extended report, Mrs Krasic, and I saw it in an extended report. In the short report you sent us and that came to this House, there is no sentence. That it was still about trying to cover up something we have one more piece of evidence. To the direct question to you, which you witnessed at the time, you said that you found no illegality because you found them to warn that competent authority. As we can see, an investigation has been opened, as we can see, pending a court case, as we see illegalities have been.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48802	Time, thank you. Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48803	Please, let me just say, the revision does not determine legality, determine irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48804	Thank you very much, so they know. Thank you, everything's fine. You can't take this anymore. I thank and conclude the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-29-0.u48805	We move to the 2009 report on the work of the State Audit Office and the report on the audits carried out. Specific part of the audit report carried out. The applicant shall be the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusions: "1. A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2009 and the report on the audits carried out is hereby adopted." Let's please get involved and vote on this first conclusion. The result? 1. The conclusion was accepted by the majority of 103 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and nothing against. A report on the audits carried out for 2008 shall be adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This second conclusion was accepted by most votes. 100 votes for, 5 abstentions and 2 against. The SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw the following conclusions. 1. The State Audit Office’s report shall be submitted to the competent authorities and institutions in order to establish any criminal or criminal offences. I'm voting on this conclusion of the SDP club. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion by the SDP's Representatives Club was accepted by 87 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 19 against. The second conclusion also, "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to (a) submit within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament a programme for the long-term removal of the audit of the identified irregularities that are repeated and (b) propose within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption of the amendment and addition of the Law on State Audit in a way to ensure the revision of companies owned and weighted by the state each year". I'm voting this conclusion of the club, and so is b. The result? This second conclusion was not accepted because it received 43 votes for, 1 abstention and 66 against. And the third same proposal for a conclusion. "It is up to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to submit to the Croatian Parliament a report on established criminal and criminal offences within 90 days on the basis of the State Audit report." I'm voting and this conclusion is the third. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This club's conclusion is not accepted. He got 39 votes for, 2 abstentions and 70 against. Representative Dragutin Lesar proposes that the conclusion be drawn as follows: "The Croatian Parliament is in charge of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to submit a written report within 60 days on the actions taken according to the cases in which the State Audit gave a negative opinion." I am voting on this conclusion by Agent Lesar. Please turn yourself in and vote. The result? This conclusion also did not get the required majority of 32 votes for, 1 abstention and 75 against.
