ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60107	Your Honor, Mr. President, MPs. The law on sport requires that athletes should not take illicit funds or apply procedures which are not permitted under the rules of the World Anti-doping Agency, and that trainers authorised doctors and other persons in sport should not grant unauthorized funds to athletes and ask athletes for or encourage them to take illegal funds or to apply procedures which are not permitted in accordance with the rules of the World Anti-doping Agency. These amendments and amendments propose that, in addition to the prescribed ban on the taking of funds and the application of procedures which are not permitted under WADA rules, bans on the taking of funds and the application of procedures which are not permitted under the rules of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the International Olympic Committee as well as the obligation of athletes to allow the conduct of the doping control. The law on sport stipulates that the Croatian Anti-doping Agency in sport is a specialised institution in charge of monitoring and implementing international conventions against doping, in sport in the Republic of Croatia established by the regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. These amendments and additions to the Law propose the accession of the Croatian Anti-doping Agency to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, which would take over workers, funds, rights, obligations, jobs, writing and other documentation of the HADA and continue to work continuously in the fight against doping in all international associations. This legislative proposal for a reorganisation would help reduce the number of institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority whose work resources are provided in the state budget while at the same time ensuring continued and high quality professional work in this area in the composition of an institution performing related tasks. According to this proposal, the Croatian Institute of Toxicology would be a legal follower of the agency. By joining these two institutions, the purpose of the agencies is not to be lost, because all jobs and tasks will remain the same and will be carried out within the Office and such a solution is not in conflict with European and world practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60108	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first in line is the HDZ Club and MP Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60109	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is how we heard the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports foresees the accession of the Croatian Anti-Doping Agency to sport, with the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and all within the framework of the Government's measures on economic recovery, the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority whose work resources are provided in the state budget. In view of the fact that it is an adjective and not of how it could be heard from certain media, this act could in no way affect the functioning of the international anti-doping organisation in sport and the implementation of its basic tasks stemming from the UNESCO International Convention against Doping in Sports, which was ratified by the Croatian Parliament on 13 July 2007, by the World Anti-Doping Code. In fact, the international anti-doping convention in sport provides for the existence of national anti-doping organisations and their tasks but does not condition that they must be a separate legal entity. If we look at the World Anti-Doping Organization's sites in sport, a list of national organisations, we can see that individual organisations are at ministries, institutes or in Italy, for example, part of the Italian Olympic Committee. What is really important in the implementation of this accession, which is the position of the National Sports Council, is that it must not compromise the implementation of all obligations of the National Anti-Doping Organisation in sport arising from international agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, not only is the existence of a national organisation in the fight against doping in sport an international commitment, it also represents a golden standard within the anti-doping movement in sport. Its task is to coordinate all efforts aimed at combating this sports evil, such as doping controls, training athletes and auxiliary staff on the harmfulness of doping, processing and enforcement of repressive measures against offenders of international co-operation and scientific work. It is precisely because of the possibility to carry out all these tasks that the existence of an adequate legislative framework or the need to comply with the existing obligations with... obligations which involve amendments to the Law on Sports and to the Criminal Law. We have not yet implemented the necessary amendments to the law, nor fully aligned the regulations with... obligations, which in one part makes the work of this organization difficult. Some countries, for example, Austria have passed an even unique law on anti-doping in a sport in which they have clearly defined and harmonised powers of the national organisation as well as the police of the state's attorney and customs in the fight against doping in sport. Furthermore, the proposed amendments to the Law on Sports propose that, in addition to the prescribed ban on the taking of funds and the application of procedures which are not permitted in accordance with the implementation of the World Anti-doping Agency, the prohibition on the taking of funds and the application of procedures which are not permitted under the rules of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the International Olympic Committee shall be prescribed. This part is considered to be a surplus and international Olympic Committee and the Croatian Olympic Committee does not have its own rules and regulations but are signatories of the government's World Anti-Doping Code, which is a fundamental and universal document on which the World Anti-Doping Programme is based in sport. I also believe that the amendment proposed by the HDZ Club, which we have all received in the name of the future proposed institutions, should be highlighted and the amendment proposed by the HDZ Club should be set out to highlight the fight against doping in sport, which would highlight the continuity and commitment of the fight against doping in the world. The amendment has been tabled for a clear determination that the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and Anti-doping continues to continue its continuous work in the fight against doping in all international associations, which until the entry into force of this law, the Croatian Anti-doping Agency has acted and assumes all rights and obligations against doping based on international conventions. The legislative provision proposed by this amendment would remove any doubts related to the continuation of continued work in the fight against doping in sports in the Republic of Croatia. Moreover, as I have said in this amendment, it is also proposed to change the name so that the adoption of this law would be called by the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and Antidoping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60110	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60111	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, actually, before the very beginning of this debate, I would like to say yesterday, and obviously today we are going to be discussing the abolition of a number of agencies, institutions that should be like the restoration of the economic recovery programme. I don't know how you, me personally, and us in the SDP, it seems to us that in a situation where 15 people are left without a house and an apartment every day, when 80,000 people are out of work this year, and all the forecasts say that by the end of the year, another 30,000 people will be out of work, here to discuss the days of laws with questionable economic effects, and that will not create a single job, it seems a little unspeakable to us, and at the end of the day, it's actually cost. When we look at all these laws and assumed savings that we still don't have the data of how much they're actually going to be, we can almost say that the greater cost will be these two days of session of the Parliament than any savings that will be achieved by abolishing all these agencies. So I think, Mr. President, that when we are discussing and discussing the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, we should also consider the moment in which the Republic of Croatia is located. However, this law, as has already been said, abolishing Croatia's anti-doping agency as an independent body, attaching it to another institution and the question is actually how much will it have to do with purpose. What is it about colleagues and colleagues? The Croatian Anti-doping Agency's work is defined in the Law on Sport and Anti-doping Agency should be addressed and it deals with systematic monitoring and coordination of actions by all governmental and non-governmental organisations in the fight against doping in sport, proposes measures in the fight against doping in sport, applies conventions, the Code of the World Anti-doping Organisation and the rules of international sports alliances and the International Olympic Committee, or somehow shortened in practice in all sports competitions that take place in the Republic they conduct doping testing, but what may be most important through their Athlete outreach programme they implement and training athletes and doping training trainers, education of all those sports workers. This bill proposes that the Croatian Anti-doping Agency, which now existed as an independent agency, be attached to the Toxicology Office, which should actually take over all employees of the current Anti-doping Agency and all projects and all that the Anti-doping Agency has actually done. Can colleagues and colleagues of the Toxicology Institute, given its structure and its work, actually deal with anti-doping? The Institute of Toxicology has been established by the Health Protection Act and the Institute of Toxicology is involved in testing chemicals in air, soil, water, rivers, sea, plant and animal life, food or in regular conditions, and, in exceptional events or in doubt of an extraordinary event, proposes protection measures. He also keeps records of chemicals being imported, exported, obtained, so he deals mostly with such things. And the question is how is all this going to work together when HADA as a small agency actually drowns in a pretty big toxicology office? Even if they were to establish a special anti-doping unit within the Department of Toxicology, and anti-doping includes drugs, steroids, hormones, diuretics, narcotics, stimuli, etc., it's mostly an interdisciplinary area that doesn't have much to do with the chemicals that the Toxology Institute is dealing with, the question is how many people who are in the Toxology Department would actually be trained. If all the people working in the Croatian Anti-doping Agency are now being taken over, then the question is why are we even ending the Anti-doping Agency? We have the same number of people who work on the same jobs, who actually have almost nothing to do with each other, which we flusion just so we can say that we have one institution less. By the way, colleagues and colleagues as parallel and together with this law, we do not have any amendments to the Health Protection Act which should redefine the new additional task of the Toxology Institute, we are, in fact, adopting this law, and not at the same time adopting and amending the Health Protection Act, coming to a single stalemate or almost legal vacuum. Another problem with the accession of the Institute of Toxicology, which is not only legal, not only formal but also real nature, Croatia has already ratified the International Convention on Combating Doping in Sports. Under the international convention, the ministry responsible for the fight against doping is the ministry responsible for sport, saying the ministry responsible for sport, which is why we have the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The Department of Toxicology has jurisdiction over the Department of Toxicology and if we transfer the antidoping in this name or that name to the Department of Toxicology, we will violate the Convention, because for an antidote through the Department of Toxicology, it will be the competent Ministry of Health, not the Ministry of Sports. However, colleagues and colleagues are not the only international consequences I will say a few more things about them. But before that, there is something to be said in general about what was the motivation for this merger. The 70th meeting of the Government adopted on 23 July a proposal to reorganise agencies, institutions, funds and other legal entities with public authority as part of the Economic Recovery Programme. The programme reads: "The National Olympic Committee will take over the work of employees, equipment, rights and obligations of the Agency, and the financial resources needed to carry out the tasks undertaken." So, the government's decision is not to contact the Antidoping Agency with the Toxology Service, but to switch to the Croatian Olympic Committee. How come the Toxology Service, which I repeat, has really nothing to do with this. And here, colleagues and colleagues, we have two problems. We've heard it a few times, and it may be best seen from this example that actually the very decision on what agencies and funds are going to make, in this particular case, the Anti-doping Agency, we're not enough, or the government hasn't figured out what actions to take. In the government's decision, the Olympic Committee says, in the bill, the Institute of Toxicology says. Secondly, only this month with the date of October 2010, there is a document which is still a proposal, so it is not yet formalised, which is called the single criteria for the establishment of agencies, institutions and other regulatory bodies, which the government is very likely to adopt during this or next month. According to the criteria set out in the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Anti-doping Agency, it must remain an independent organisation, given that one of the four criteria is that it deals with non-performing transactions, which are specific and for which there are also international obligations to be carried out as a specific and independent body, therefore not in general as part of a state administration. Therefore, neither is it clever enough to do what needs to be done, and on the other hand, colleagues and colleagues who are effects financially if you want to, since this is obviously the only motivation to abolish the anti-doping agency. If we think a little bit better about moving all things, documentation and everything else that exists in the existing anti-doping agency of the toxicology department, that's what certain funds require. If the premises won't move, if the new Tox Service will operate in two locations, then we don't have any savings, but we also have a new cost. If we also renamed the Tox screen according to the one amendment we got, it means that we have to change the web page, that we have to change the seals, that we have to change the memos, that we have to change the cards, that we have to change the phones, and we basically have a simple cost. The more all the employees, all the projects continue inside the new Toxicology Institute. Maybe a little bit about the agency's work. The agency, the one we're proposing now to abolish as an independent entity and actually drown it in the Toxenology Department, it's only been functioning for two years. It is located in a new Borg campus and actually in building this agency capacity and in terms of both people and content and equipment is invested a lot of funds. The classrooms were made, the labs were created, trained professional staff. And now we have to move it all together to a new address because if it stays on two, I don't know where our savings are, and the building in which the HADA now worked should be left abandoned until we find some new purpose for it. The testing of athletes who were also carried out in the Croatian Anti-doping Agency, since they are in its laboratory, and in fact by removing these laboratories that as such do not exist in today's Toxicology Office, I think we are infinitely complicated. And now respected colleagues and colleagues a little about international aspects. The abolition of the Croatian Anti-doping Agency would actually be a precedent in the world because of the 130 countries that have their own independent agencies, Croatia would be the first and only one in the world to accept the World Anti-doping Code, without having an agency or that, after the abolition of the Codes, it would be the first and only one in the world to accept the World Anti-Doping Code. That would mean disrespect for that same code, but also non-recognition, a kind of non-recognition of the World Anti-Doping Agency. This also means a breach of the international convention under which the obligation to respect an independent anti-doping body is based, as all Member States of the European Union have. The existence of the Croatian Anti-Doping Agency is one of the conditions of compliance with the '94 Doping Convention. and the UNESCO Convention of Paris in 2005. We were warned by people who are doing this that without doping control is questionable to hold all international sports competitions in the Republic of Croatia since the World Anti-Doping Code in its 22nd chapter says the following. "If governments do not ratify, accept, approve or agree to the UNESCO Convention by 1 January 2010 or fail to meet the UNESCO Convention, this will result in the inability to run for events as indicated in paragraphs 21.8 relating to the International Olympic Committee, 23.10 concerning international alliances, 26.6 concerning the organisers of major competitions and may result in additional consequences such as: the loss of office in the World Anti-Doping Organisation, the inability to or not accept any candidacy to maintain any international event in that country, cancelling international events, symbolic consequences and other consequences in accordance with the Olympic Charter." What exactly is this about? The World Anti-Doping Agency is actually founded from two branches that make up 50-50% of its founding body in proportions. The first half consists of sports organisations, which means the International Olympic Committee, national Olympic committees, international sports alliances, national sports alliances, etc. From this branch in Croatia is the signatories of the International Convention Croatian Olympic Committee. The second half is made up of governments of the state and their institutions, which are mostly independent agencies, most often sports doping agencies, and in those countries where such agencies do not exist, such agencies are with the minister responsible for sport, which is also the obligation of the Agency. I repeat, by fitting HADA into the Toxology Department, we are moving to the Ministry of Health and directly violating the Convention. The signatories of the Code, which is also the World Anti-Doping Organisation's Regulation, are on one hand the Croatian Olympic Committee from this sports branch, i.e. the Croatian Anti-doping Agency in Sports, so each of them as an institution in its branch. The disappearance of one signator, which has also been confirmed in a letter from the Director of the World Anti-Doping Agency, and the abolition of HADA as an independent identity disappears from one of the signatories of the World Anti-doping Convention, which has received a positive assessment of co-operation because each signator must receive a positive assessment of co-operation, which, by the way, our HADA has been very difficult to obtain. WADA's second signatories are authorized to do the work of the convention. In particular, it means that by abolishing the legal identity of HADA as signatories of the World Anti-Doping Organisation Convention, the Croatian Olympic Committee will authorise the implementation of the anti-doping rules, regardless of what we have stated in the law. It is simply an international right that, by any law, it is a ratified convention, above any of our national laws. In some way, until new conditions for the assessment of co-operation are obtained, and I say this current HADA as an independent agency has received these conditions very difficult, Croatia can remain without the major international sports competitions already agreed, and some of us have in our near future here in Zagreb. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the end, it seems to me that it is a hasty decision that will not meet the purpose of the Economic Recovery Programme itself or bring savings, and in fact those positive effects that HADA as a national anti-doping agency had primarily the education of athletes and sports workers will, on the one hand, stop, perhaps completely abolish, without talking about what HADA could actually be and how it could develop. Finally, it should be said that the National Sports Council, which is our parliamentary body as a roof strategic body, has not expressed itself positively on the amendments to this law, do not have a good opinion on the abolition of HADA's many prominent athletes and leaders of the national alliances. And since we still don't know what effect we're actually going to have, even the SDP club won't support the adoption of this law, and we're asking the State Secretary to tell us how much kuna will be saved in the state budget by adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60112	Thank you. We've got a correction from Mrs. Representative Gyurjka Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60113	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would like to correct my colleague Lugaric's incorrect allegations that she has been arguing in this Assembly for a few days about the abolition. In fact, they claim it's about abolishing, and clearly it's about attaching something. That's what I said yesterday, two different ideas. But, of course, it is in the interest of the opposition to say what fits them, and I just wanted to say that about this large number of employees and, of course, that this anti-doping control and that there must be six employees and all will be attached, so to the Toxicology Institute. And one more thing. The Convention did not predict that it must be on its own. So, you know that yourself, you read that so now I don't repeat it, but it can be attached. Nothing is lifted and will continue to be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60114	Thank you. There is another correction, Mrs. Susana Bilic Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60115	Thank you very much. I am also correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Lugaric that this is about abolishing when it is clear and the proposal that it is about adjudication. When a colleague said there was no other incorrect assumption that these changes would not bring about any savings. My colleagues, that's not true. And one leading place is savings, and since it means nothing to your party, not a million, not a million, not 20 million, then it's no wonder you're reacting to these savings. And the third thing, the third incorrect allegation that will stop the education of athletes in the fight against doping. It is not true, because the agency's activity will continue within the toxicology department. And it is incorrect that the National Sports Council was negatively manifested on this amendment because it supported this amendment only on condition that continuity with international organisations is achieved, as this proposal and the amendment has been ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60116	Thank you. It's Mrs. Mariana Petir's turn on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60117	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Madam Secretary of State. Although the Sport Act stipulates that athletes should not take illicit funds, that is, doping or use procedures that are not permitted by the World Anti-doping Agency. Some athletes don't find that strange after all. They also prove that doping controls whose results are regularly obtained by large media spaces. Neither coaches nor authorized doctors nor other sportspeople are allowed to give the athlete unauthorized funds, encourage him to do so or ask him to do so. However, news about taking illicit funds is often reported in the media, and no sport has been spared by the monster, nor by the queen of athletic sports nor by cycling, nor by recreational sport. It is therefore appropriate to ask yourself what message this sport is sending us today? Whether persistent training including many denials in the competition can win with its own strengths. According to cases where doping has been found, neither sport has been deprived of any criminal activities. Taking banned funds and procedures is actually stealing, since doping is not allowed to use a certain advantage over other competitors. Unfortunately, individuals in the fight for money, fame and social status are willing not only to endanger their own health but also to deceive those with whom they should compete evenly, and that there are individuals who are willing to help them, however, most talk about the situation in today's society where success tends at all costs, so it does not cross even from breaking the law and should be called the real name of the wicked means and procedures. It's incompatible with a fair play that must be an integral part of the sport. However, when someone reaches for doping using illicit means and procedures to defeat an opponent there is no more fair competition and no more fair play. But that's why some start a lucrative business because today big money is being turned into sports, and only the best ones and the ones that made it possible for them to do it in one way or another. It is also sad that a athlete, and it is not uncommon for top athletes to be involved besides his efforts that he has invested in training the progressive both after doping and in such a way that if he is caught in fraud, he is at risk of offending his success and infamously finishing the career he has achieved with a lot of denials. Through sport, not only is the body strengthened and formed, but the nature and the nature are found. That is why it is often mentioned as an important segment in the fight against the various addictions that threaten children and young people. Sportsmen, especially those top-notch role models, are for young people. Unfortunately, if they deliver their results by doping, and not by honest competition, they send a message that it's okay to steal and cheat until they catch you. Sports used to be recreation, entertainment and maintenance. Today, however, he has rarely driven into an unfair competition that destroys health in the race for great profit and short-term fame, and the Olympic slogan "faster, more, stronger" that encourages self-control and competition with others in achieving the best results of an individual apparently encourages unfair, illegal and by the health of athletes questionable behavior. In fact, it seems that for a long time in sport it is not worth saying that it is important to participate, but it is also an imperative to win. In addition to all the legal provisions and sanctions that exist, even those who do not engage in sports know that doping is forbidden, we still need to systematically and uncompromisingly combat this monster of modern sport. We therefore believe that these amendments and additions to the Sport Act are also in addition to the already prescribed prohibitions required by the rules of the World Anti-doping Agency are also required by the ban on taking funds and applying procedures which do not allow the rules of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the International Olympic Committee, as well as the obligation of athletes to allow the doping control to be carried out. This is not only important because those who break these rules are caught, but also because of those who fight fairly for their results, train with great effort and bear many sacrifices, as the demands of today's top sport are extremely high, so that almost daily the limits of our knowledge of the human body's ability, as well as the mental and mental powers of individuals move. Those athletes who best embody the spirit of sport and fair play should be able to compete securely, that someone will not be better because he took something he shouldn't have, and they should be clearly distinguished from those who are willing to cheat and steal. It is important to implement education programmes for prevention, in particular to warn young people about the dangers of doping, but also to warn active athletes of the necessary caution when taking, for example, food supplements that may contain substances that are prohibited under the anti-doping rules and are not properly marked. A significant number of positive tests are attributed to the wrong use of food supplements and poor labelling of food supplements, which cannot nevertheless be a defence for athletes in the event of a hearing. Finally, the proposal to join the Croatian Anti-Doping Agency in sport was intended to contribute to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology to reduce the number of agencies, institutions and other legal persons whose work is financed from the state budget, but in Croatia we believe that because of the increasing frequency of drug abuse in sport and beyond, it is wiser to attach the agency to the Government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which has already pointed out the need for anabolic steroids that are the doping agent to be placed on the drug list and criminalised. The Government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse has already carried out activities carried out by the Anti-Doping Agency, especially those related to prevention and education, and therefore we propose to the HSS Club that the Agency be attached to the Government Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, and not to the Department of Toxicology, whose work is primarily related to the implementation of measures related to the handling of chemicals. The Government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse would, according to a description of its work, structure, employee structure, the manner and methodology of monitoring the problem of addiction, the international cooperation achieved in the area of addiction, and the results and experience so far, be the appropriate authority for taking over the work of that agency. In addition, according to the 2009-2012 action plan, the office developed a national programme for prevention of child and youth addiction in the education system, as well as for children and young people in the social care system for the period 2010-2014, which is the first document to combine preventive strategies to prevent and combat the emergence of all forms of addiction, which includes, among other things, the means of doping. All this suggests that joining the agency would be a more skilled solution in our opinion, but what remains unequivocally is that such an organisation must not happen to weaken efforts to combat the use of doping among athletes, and because of what the World Anti-doping Agency is looking for, and because of fair play, and because of the health and well-being of athletes themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60118	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60119	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with the part where we all probably all agree. We agree that the Croatian public administration, and I will include all the funds, agencies, institutes established by the government, that it is too bulky, that it is really too expensive, and yet, regardless of its size, it is often and ineffective. So we have two basic elements that we should talk about today, that's why it's so numerous, and why it's so inefficient. I will skip one piece of what my colleague Lugaric said, I think she did a great job of doing at least one piece of that technical demonstration of the links between this area and sports, this area and health care, or the incompatibility of some of the proposals presented here. But what I would like to say at the beginning is colleagues and colleagues, communication between the Croatian government and this Parliament is absolutely inadequate. Take a look at this material that we got on our benches and look at that section about the assessment of the situation, so we need to evaluate the situation so that we can start to reorganize and assess whether this reorganisation will improve that state. You in these few sentences don't have a single element based on which any of us could assess the situation in this area. I only find one sentence, but she doesn't tell me much about the condition. The Sport Act states that Croatia's anti-doping agency in sport is a specialised institution in charge of monitoring and implementing international anti-doping conventions in sport in the Republic of Croatia, established by the regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Is that a status assessment? How many employees are working at that agency? What profile are they? Are they doctors, biochemists, chemists? I don't know anything. What rooms do they operate in? What equipment do they have? What are their achievements? What problems did they face? It would be the minimum obligation of the motionor to give us such elements that we can discuss them, and then say that by reorganisation we will really improve that, that and that. We have here a proposal to attach this agency to toxicology. I agree with all those colleagues and colleagues who have spoken so far and who have said that these two institutions really don't have much in common. They don't. That it's a related institution we can discuss. I'm only finding, I've tried really to go in favor of the proposer, and find something that would justify this kind of fusion, and I can only say maybe it could be the equipment available to the Toxicology Service, which might be used to run a certain part of the testing on, during the antidoping control. That might be one of the elements where I could say that this is it, but more than that I unfortunately cannot say in favour of this proposal. I'd just like to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if you know that the World Anti-doping Agency gives accreditation to laboratories to run samples on individual substances according to the code that was mentioned earlier. Do you know, colleagues and colleagues, that no single laboratory in the Republic of Croatia has and has been accredited to carry out such checks. None. If you want to test and obtain a valid report, you will have to send that sample to Austria, Turkey, Romania, Greece, but you will not be able to send it to any accredited laboratory in Croatia. Why didn't we hear that? Why is that? What's it gonna be like that? I repeat this manner of communication between the government and the parliament is really not acceptable, it is not acceptable. Everyone would support every project, every effort, every attempt to solve problems in this area, but in this way underestimate us, in this way to avoid talking about the real situation in this area, I don't think it's good. The third page of this proposal states that the aim of the reorganisation is to improve efficiency, work economy and reduce budget resources for their work. I agree, but we would like to ask the State Secretary to finally tell us in the final address that this efficiency will increase, how economics will increase in work i.e. how much funds we will save, where we will target these funds to clearly achieve the objective set here, which is to improve, or improve efficiency. I don't think we should talk much more because my colleagues said a lot before me. I only disagree that the documents and rules are kept repeating, the standards of the World Anti-doping Agency because the documents of that agency are not legally binding on any country, but by estimating the efforts and estimating those standards then signed the UNESCO International Convention, which obliges us to comply with these standards, or the Copenhagen Declaration, so that they will have to respect it again. So we have to be fair here, we have to say what is the mechanism that imposes obligations on us to these documents. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60120	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and is the first female representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60121	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. With this bill that we have here, I would say unfortunately not much lately, many agencies have been abolished, which many of them were founded during the mandate of this government, which have been announced as a rescue measure, as specialised institutions that will solve the problems for which the agencies are set up. Now, here's what we're looking at, and with this bill of law, an agency like this is being abolished. The question arises as to what was the purpose of setting up these agencies in the first place, as the Sport Act was last adopted in 2006. So the question is, what was the government, this government of continuity, even meant by that agency? Now it's showing up because it's perfectly clear, it shows with this proposal, that she didn't mean anything serious in those agencies to do. What did she mean by that? Hiring people in those agencies. And now, by abolishing this agency, it is especially stressed that these same people who are going to stay working. So this bill also perfectly shows that activity and work are not important at all, but if one agency needed this agency. What happens in sports, we all know. Unfortunately, it is less debated and revealed here, and unfortunately more in European courts. Therefore, one serious amendment to the Sport Act and on this topic was proposed by the SDP club. The authorities under emergency if they have any thoughts of doing something serious and then facing this problem, the problem of doping, but otherwise fixing the situation in sport where there will be clean bills should be going to privatization clubs. It is perfectly clear that those clubs that are privatized, I am not going to be particularly potent here, which, when privatised, have already won the right of the European championship. And we know perfectly well how much money and by this very Act of Sports when it was passed in 2006, how much money, instead of clearing things up, to call the State's Attorney's Office, was forgiven by law and recovered those debts. And we're talking about a great desire to clear things up that happened in criminal conversion and privatisation in the '90s. And recently, this law has just been remedied with huge, huge debts, or dubious ones. How much of the funding goes out of the budget of the local self-government unit on one unhealthy basis, which is essentially bought only by the voting body and voting machinery. So, we should also look at these laws in light of political corruption and then get the strength to go into such a single reform of sport itself, and the basis for that is that we have proposed as a SDP club changes to the Law on Sport and Privatisation we need so there would be less problems like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60122	Thank you. There's a debate coming up, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić. As far as I can tell, he's not here. He's losing his right to debate. So it's Romana Jerkovic's turn, twice reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Sport Act which essentially brings only one newspaper, only one amendment, which is the abolition of the Agency as an independent institution, as an independent body. In the past few discussions, we have pointed out that for principled simple reasons, we are against hasty, pausal, unargumented, and demagogue decisions that are not based on very serious analyses, on numbers, on arguments, on statistics and on too many reasons. The explanation that we have in the proposal for this law is actually the same in the reasons we have heard so far when we discussed the abolition of the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments, the Regional Development Fund or the Development and Employment Fund. And the explanation is there's no explanation. It is therefore incredible that, as the only argument, the rationalisation and implementation of the economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is cited, and that at the same time, at the same time, there is not a single word in which this rationalisation is made up. In fact, the key thing should be this, savings in the budget in the Croatian budget. So we can rightly declare this decision a demagogue and you haven't bothered to convince us otherwise. This decision is demagogue because, as I said, about real savings, the agency is attached to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, which would also take over officials, deputies, funds, rights, so the Agency is abolished but employees and funds are moving to another institution. So what's really changing? Even in this toxicology facility, it is assumed that the activity will in some way be separated from other activities and activities of the Institute, likely to form some subsection, some new unit that will have to have its own boss. In fact, it's no wonder that in your explanation you don't say how many savings it's about because there's actually no saving or there's no saving, that there are, that I believe that you would explain them and put them in. I believe in this decision that it is intended to create in public the impression that something is done, to reduce bureaucracy, to draw some bold moves, of course you expect approval in the public, in one part you will get it, just because you are not actually telling the truth, don't speak the way things really stand. As with other terminations here, we could reach out to the fact that everything actually comes down to a wolf full and sheep in number. I think that with that kind of action we're constantly doing it in favor of our own damage, and unfortunately, no one cares about it. I'm sorry that often, in fact, too often doesn't hear the voice of the professional public, or better to say I'm sorry that there's no one to hear what the profession has to say. But when politics doesn't listen to what the profession has to say, it's mostly the wrong decisions, and unfortunately we've been listening and looking back over the past few years and in the segment of health and in the segment of education and higher education. I can tell you what a part of the profession that addressed me says about amending the law. He says, we believe that the existing Anti-Doping Agency is an appropriate and quality solution, in accordance with the rules and codes of the World Anti-doping Agency as well as the experiences of other European countries. This is also the attitude of all sports communities, cities and counties expressed at a joint meeting in Osijek on September 23rd this year. That's what the waist says. The waist says something else. When you have already decided to amend the Sport Act, it is incomprehensible that you did not do so properly, it is incomprehensible that you did not approach one more comprehensive, significant, thorough, fundamental amendment of the Sport Act, and for that there is a lot of need. How it can be ignored that in recent years it has been shown that the Law on Sport in its large part is a dead letter on paper, that it is not actually enforceable. How it is possible to ignore the fact that more than 10 laws under the law have not been passed since the law was passed. If this takes into account the economic situation in which Croatia is today, if we consider that it has a large, strong impact on the financing and functioning of the system we are talking about, how is it possible that we have not come to a thorough amendment of the Sport Act, in the segment of clubs the functioning takes a catastrophic scale, so why are we waiting? For what? This amendment and supplementation proposal doesn't look any different. Since we've decided only to abolish or attach the Agency that you're essentially saying doesn't mean anything. For quality, the continuity of work means nothing, it means nothing for economic savings. So, I wonder why this amendment to the law? We have heard what has been the delirious agency so far and so it is quite justified to ask the question, will the accession disrupt the quality and coordination of the fight against doping in sport, since jurisdiction moves to a ministry that neither parent to sport? And secondly, if you have already decided on such a move then you must be aware that the Croatian Institute of Toxicology is getting into the jurisdiction of activities that it has not had so far. And not only that, he did not have them, but there is no basis in Croatian legislation for him to carry them out from now on. So, Madam Secretary of State, please answer the question, how do you imagine it will be possible to ensure the continuity of the Agency's work without providing legislation for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60124	We have two replicas, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60125	Thank you very much. My colleague Romana, unlike you, I'm looking at this law a little wider. I'm watching him as part of those laws we discussed yesterday, which we're going to do today, tomorrow, and probably a few more days. So, in your failure to find this contribution, the government simply merges, abolishing individual bodies, agencies, or whatever you call them, will actually have no effect. It's actually going to be a negative effect. That's what you indicated yourself. It'll be worse results. And what we talked about yesterday about removing some funds and the agency is this, that this was all made out of sleeves. In fact, we have no serious analysis of why something is attached, or why something else is not attached to it. And you actually hit the point. It's demagogy. And there's nothing to expect from this. We are likely to quickly put into a situation to try to form some bodies or try what the Government does not know how to do, which is to place certain activities on the market to our success rather than to return them to the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60126	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60127	I agree with you. The government is making one proposal that is completely inadequate at the moment we are at, and even less, the needs that exist in this segment. I tried to point out in my debate that this law should have been better prepared and better prepared, as the segment of sports in Croatia today is burdened with huge problems. This should therefore be done by establishing and operating national sports alliances, and should be addressed by organising and functioning professional sports clubs, registering and working sports associations, roles and powers of the National Council with sport, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60128	Thank you. And we have another replica of the esteemed representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60129	My colleague Jerkovic spoke from doping control which is directly related to the health of athletes, I would perhaps briefly refer to a major problem here, and that is the problem of the medical examination of athletes. By virtue of the Sport Act, Article 61(1) and (2) shall determine the person who can determine the medical ability of athletes. Where's the problem? The problem exists here I will set an example in Varazdin County in all cities except Varazdin, of course, which has many athletes. There are cca 500 registered athletes in every city. Each of these athletes has to carry out two reviews per year under the law. And when we compare the price of each review is about 400 kuna, when we compare the price of these reviews and when we multiply with the number of registered athletes we get to the amount of more than 400 thousand kuna, or half a million kuna, which is practically the entire budget that is allocated to sport in some cities. I know that's the problem, I know that health checks have to be carried out, but so far it's been solved differently. Prior to such examinations were performed by general practitioners who had in their medical records offices for their patients and of course there were a large number of those involved in sports. Here, this is one big problem, and I think we should think about how we should try to solve this problem, because we will have a situation that in some cities, the municipalities, unfortunately, we will abolish the associations or that the organizations that will result directly will be abolished... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60130	Thank you. Your time is up. You didn't answer, all right. Let's move on with the debate. It's supposed to be Gordan Maras, but as far as I can tell, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. So it's time for the Honorable Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I must say at the beginning that I oppose the abolition of this institution by this bill, because I believe that the important savings will not be achieved, and one extremely bad message is being sent to all those who are engaged in sports in Croatia. That the very fact that significant savings will not be achieved is also likely to say that and when a decision on the establishment of such an institution was made, it certainly did not act irrationally at the time, but were led by or by representatives in this House by the criteria of the need for such an institution. But I think this is an opportunity, since we rarely can talk about the state of sport, talk about it, because usually when it comes to sports, there will be a representative of the Croatian Olympic Committee, not a competent ministry, which I would like to do and when a report on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee is submitted, an annual report, to be attended by a representative of the ministry. Because the question is, as a society, what do we want from Croatian sports at all? Is this just a chance to send a card to our athletes when they achieve some results? Is this just a chance to cheer or do we really want a result? But when I talk about sports, then I'm not talking about professional football clubs, usually in English, which in our media got more space each than all Croatian Olympic medal winners combined, and I'm talking about them. I'm talking about athletes who win Olympic medals and I don't think we've ever had the right opportunity to discuss their needs here, how the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports solves sports problems, their status. The question is how many Croatia has lost talented athletes in the last year, just for example because of the application of the Bologna process. Has anyone at the Ministry of Science made a specific analysis of how much it is? In which way Croatian students, hardworking boys and girls, can gain the status of, for example, Croatian national representative in a sport where there are also criteria for acquiring the status of representatives and exams at the university. Unfortunately, in many academic sports, our athletes are looking for an exit to the United States, their universities because it is their way of overcoming the problem in Croatia that is extremely difficult or almost impossible at the same time as the top sports results and successful study at Croatian universities. This applies in particular to academic swimming sports, rowing, but also to others, and these are sports where Croatia has great successes, but it is also the fact that Croatian athletes are working hard to go to American universities first and foremost. And then what we missed, did we really do in our society all we needed to achieve results. It speaks of this and a concrete example of whether we are truly satisfied with the number of Olympic medals won. We're making a constant impression that we're extremely successful at it, and objectively we're not. Neighbouring Slovenia, which is half smaller in the last Olympics, has 5 medals as well as Croatia, but two gold medals, we have none. So we're not successful at this, we need to change something if we really want top sports results. And if we don't want them, let's just say so openly. This is seen by the fact how much money we are willing to separate and for the status of athletes because reaching the Olympic medal means one systematic work that includes practically investing all our lives. One who commits himself to this risks and invests what others can through much easier study, enough time to achieve a professional career but one who commits himself to the Olympic medal does not. So the stake is the life of athletes, and we achieve results as a country thanks to the express enthusiasm of individuals, not an organised system in that. And I don't think it's possible to solve this problem by transferring all responsibility to the Croatian Olympic Committee. I have to say they're doing a lot of good work and they have a certain systematicity in it, and you can see that, but they don't have enough resources and there's a decision that has to be made by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and I don't see them making them. And because of this, year after year we lose an extremely large number of talented athletes who get to choose between the possibility of performing at the European Championship or losing a year at the university, and that must not happen. So we need to adapt certain needs of Croatian sport and Croatian science in such a way that it can be applied to both people who objectively have that potential. Of course, I'm not talking about everyone, and I'm not talking about professional sports, sports that make money, but I'm talking about those where there's absolutely no profit, but on the other hand, there's a need to invest practically all my life in achieving results. And this happened with Kostelic, the Kostelic family, the Vlasic family, who came to the top results, but not everyone can do it, not all of them have such conditions or have such determination to deal with the team and there must be a Croatian society. As a society, we must therefore create conditions in which successes can be posed by all those who have predisposition and will for such a thing, not by practical awareness only of the enthusiasm of individuals. That's what we're missing, and that's what countries around here have. I would hate for the situation to happen if countries in the environment were to pass us by, and there is always a link between the country's gross social product and the Olympic medals won. It is not by chance possible that the Croatian football electorate did not perform at the world championship, and the countries east and west of us did, and that both the countries east and west of us came out of recession, and we did not. I'm sure there's a deep connection between that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60132	Your Honor, I have not interrupted you because the subject is certainly very interesting, but it really has nothing to do with these amendments and the additions of the law. So I'd like to ask all the other participants in the debate if I don't have to warn you, we have to stick to the subject. Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60133	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Srb, you said that with what was originally related and this topic that no greater savings will be achieved with these amendments to this law, but I think this amendment to the law could do more damage to some of the problems in sport. The problem is enough, normal. Our goal is to create high-quality athletes, however, in order to create them, we normally need people who deal with this sport to warn, to warn how and in what way, which is what the agency said, in order to educationally warn them about taking some illegal funds. What does that mean? That means there should be food control, the drinks they take, the medications these athletes take. In order to achieve this well, certain labellings of these products are needed and certainly many of the stimulators that athletes take must often work on better results, but many are just disrupting the health of these athletes. That's why the issue of this agency and its transition is whether to go to the office or elsewhere, and I think that what Mrs. Petir is proposing is a better quality solution, I think it's one of the important issues to continue this activity. Because all of the awareness of budget cuts would not be good for Croatian sport, especially for all of these young people, whom Serbian counterparts also spoke of who should achieve the highest results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60134	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60135	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bodakoš, I think the best solution would be that this institution is not abolished because it is a specific activity that needs to have its special status. Of course, if it's a matter of saving, then you can cancel the funding of everything, so we can achieve maximum savings. But it's not the point, it's not the message, but in this particular case, I think it would be the best solution to remain an existing solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60136	And the second is a replica, the esteemed representative of Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60137	You asked a very good question, and that is what we really want from Croatian sport. I'm not sure the government knows what it wants from Croatian sport, but I definitely believe that the great damage to sport has been made by the legislator's claim that sport is based on the principle of volunteering. This would actually mean that sport is the only voluntary social activity, and therefore in some ways less important to this society. And we should consider the fact that we are at the top of black and poor European statistics on alcohol, as far as drugs are concerned, as regards smoking, obesity, cardiovascular diseases. And I am convinced that in fact one of the basic legal norms should read on the occasion that sport is an activity of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60138	Replica response, distinguished representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60139	Thank you very much, dear colleague Jerkovic. I fully agree with you that sport should especially provide young people with one new goal for a different life, not a life that relies on the bar in cafes or the consumption of alcohol or cigarettes, but a chance for individuals to prove their results in what they want, what they want to do, what they are good at and through themselves. I think it's also socially useful. Of course, it is also useful in general health terms to reduce the number of smokers, alcoholics, etc. But it is also an indicator of the organisation of a society, and we as a society have not defined what we really want. It's not the government, but the government is also part of society. It is a broader topic that Croatia must open if it wants to make a move in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60140	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 10.38 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will reduce my debate as much as possible because I believe that the subject that follows this pension reform deserves far more attention and greater interest in the Croatian public. The government therefore proposed to us to accept its proposal that the Croatian Anti-Doping Agency in sport be attached to the Toxology Office. Who of the experts gave this proposal to the government? Which experts and expert teams have assessed or assessed, calculated, proven, analysed that joining this agency is exactly the best solution for toxicology. In a set of these laws, the abolitions or mergers of the government's only argument is that that's what they decided. That some kind of analysis of a public administration that we MPs didn't get that way. It's about an occipital method. It's a system of attempts and mistakes. I remember and remind those who forgot not so long ago we were in a great euphoria of implementing the HITRO-REZ action so former Prime Minister Sanader took pictures and walked around with those big scissors cardboard promising that this action and this office for the conduct of HITRO REZA or how the Međimurci would tell me the flint cut would make big savings and allow for a better functioning of the public administration. Of course, the results were not as minimal as this panic attempt to connect and eliminate an enormous number of funds, institutions, offices, agencies and other legal entities would bring minimal savings. And from a professional point of view, I have no arguments. This agency was responsible for its professional work for the minister. Does that mean that the minister is unhappy with the agency's professional work, which is why it belongs to the Toxenology Service. And only three questions for the end. And why not the Department of Public Health? Is this a facility that is both human and technical and laboratoryly far better equipped than the Toxenology Department. After a few years of fighting, we finally managed to include all the counselling centres and professional teams that exist throughout Croatia as well as prevention, by consulting the fight against drugs, addictions, and also by transferring part of the therapy and treatment to the Institute of Public Health. So why don't we concentrate a little money on already existing institutions, and I think the question of doping in sports is the interest of public health as a whole. I don't have the answer to that question. My second question, I know that in the ministry you think the Sport Act is bad and that it is necessary to pass a new law, a law on sport that you inherited from the former minister, and I think it is bad and that it has not yielded the basic results. But we are witnessing a major affair that two sports alliances went bankrupt. Golf and volleyball. How is it possible that now and on this occasion you did not use the need for intervention in the Sport Act to repair the law on that part, or came with a new law, as it is possible that the head man of the Alliance for Golf or the Golf Alliance would be forced into bankruptcy because he first made debts, owed the alliance, and then bought those debts and appeared as a citizen by request and initiating bankruptcy proceedings. The former head of the alliance opened a bankruptcy procedure on the alliance, and bought back the debts he had made as leader. And finally, did you finally start seriously considering my 10 times to make a proposal that by amending the Law on Sports you must put sports alliances in the category of responsible as well as the Croatian Olympic Security Board at sports resorts and preventing riots which unfortunately we have too. You always claim that sport is Croatia's biggest promoter in the world. As positive as that, unfortunately, in a negative sense. It is a shame, we will lose a few hours of debate on changes to the Law on Sports, the essence of the change that Croatia needs again you did not propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60142	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is next to representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60143	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will point out at first that I will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sport, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered to the Parliament for the adoption of an emergency procedure. And I'll tell you why. First of all, because the amendment and addition of this law was founded and contained in the programme of economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, which the Croatian Government adopted in April this year, envisioned a reform of public administration, which, otherwise, also supported by the economic recovery programme of the Republic of Croatia, clearly supports this segment of public administration reform. This amendment and addition of this law is also based and contained in the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in July of this year, which provides for the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority and with the aim of improving the efficiency and economy in work, as well as the reduction of budgetary resources for their work. To those who spoke here and in their discussions pointed out that the government did not know, or were asking questions that the government intended when agencies, funds and institutes were set up, so now it does not even know what the intention of this abolition was, I will reply specifically to this example of the amendments and the addition of the Sport Act. The World Anti-doping Agency was founded in 1999. The World Code against Doping was adopted in Copenhagen in 2003, and the International Convention against Doping in Sports was adopted in Paris in 2005 at UNESCO headquarters and entered into force on 1 February 2007. I will just remind myself that the new Sport Act was passed in 2006 and that, on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Sports, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a Croatian Anti-Doping Agency in February 2007. And this House, this House of the High, passed the Law on the approval of the International Convention against Doping in Sports in July 2007. So the government knew and knew what it wanted with the establishment of the Croatian Anti-Doping Agency in sport, and also now that it is proposing to implement these amendments and amendments to the law to implement the accession, so I stress not the abolition, but the accession of the Croatian Anti-Doping Agency to the Croatian Toxicology Institute. In this sense, I support and stress the importance of the amendments that our club, therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club, has proposed, I believe that the motionary will adopt it, and the amendment speaks of the extension of the name, so that also in the name of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, the word antidoping is added, so that the word antidoping is clearly already known from the name itself, to which its activity has been expanded. All the comments that have been made here in terms of a legislative vacuum, those who have said that there is no resistance to legislation in the area of health, I expect that the proposings, that the Government will take into account, in the meantime or after the adoption of this law, will also make sure that this part is corrected in legislation. I will repeat what I said that I believe that the removal of a leading post, the removal of the boards of directors, and therefore the compensation that these people had, is a profit for the Croatian state in this state. Let us not forget that agencies are founded in the time of economic prosperity that was in the Republic of Croatia, and today in response to all those whom I have told already 100,000 kunas, million kunas, 20 million kunas mean nothing, except when the number of unemployed stands out, and today the Croatian government wants to provide funds in the budget and for those who remain unemployed, who remain at the employment office, and in such a concern I support any rationalisation and reorganisation that can and will contribute to the savings in the state budget. For these reasons, I do not, again, stress, support the amendments and additions to the Law on Sports, which in this segment refer only to the change in the status of the Croatian Anti-Doping Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60144	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one reported replica. Dear colleague Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60145	Dear colleagues, since we do not seem to agree on the points of view of this law, and it seems to me that you have failed to explain enough things in which we disagree, I ask you to actually answer three questions so that your point of view is actually credible. First, you called for the government's conclusion on the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, etc. The conclusion is that the HADA's affairs will be taken over by the Olympic Committee. How is it possible for the Government to have consistent policy if it brings one conclusion and proposes another to the Parliament? That's the first question. The second question is, how much savings in kunas will be in the state budget? I personally advocate absolutely saving, but if we know that by appointing another holder of this job, and obviously it will be a second name agency that under the International Convention, then we must pass the entire certification of laboratories and the like, which costs, which will be charged by our side and which we will pay for. I'm curious to know exactly how much savings are in kunas, how many hundred, tens, or several kunas with the full application of this law. And the third question, how do you think we're going to respect the International Convention in which it says so, says the Anti-doping Ministry is responsible for sports, saying, and the Institute of Toxicology is in charge of the Ministry of Health. And we'll transfer antidoping to this health care law, and according to the International Convention, the Ministry of Sports must be responsible for it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60146	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, colleague Bilić Vardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60147	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Lugarić and I were preparing to discuss why if it were concluded that the agency would be attached to the HOO we did not get an explanation here, but I am sure my colleagues Lugarić would not support the accession of the Croatian Anti-doping Agency to Lugaric in that case. So this part, I think this is the answer to your question. You must also know that the agency has been working with the Ministry of Health and Social Care until now. The cost of saving this, I will not repeat and I am sorry that the promoter did not put it in his own, delivered it in his explanation, but I am sure that the savings of a single management post means for the state budget at the moment that we have determined that we will not increase the expenditure, fellow Members of Lugaric, and that we will still take care of the protection of the socially endangered groups. And this, I said, and I expect the Proposer to take care of these allegations that you said, and in part I was talking about. So, about respecting the declaration, about respecting to be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60148	Thank you. Next up, an esteemed colleague named Branko Boxti appeared for discussion. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The fight against doping in sports has been a strategic goal at global and national level for years. Countries, the International Olympic Committee, the International Sports Federation, the National Sports Alliance and different government and NGOs are involved in creating a policy and strategy to combat doping in sport. The joint action resulted in the establishment of the World Anti-doping Agency in 1999 and in 2003 by adopting the World Code against Doping. At the 2003 World Conference in Copenhagen, the World Code Against Doping was adopted as a basis in the fight against doping in sports around the world. The countries that adopted and signed the Copenhagen Declaration against Doping in Sports, including ours, recognise and support the role of the World Anti-doping Agency and its Code and commit to international and intergovernmental cooperation in the coordination of anti-doping policies and practices in sport. The International Convention against Doping in Sports adopted in 2005 at UNESCO headquarters in Paris and entered into force on 1 February 2007 after being ratified by 30 countries pursuant to Article 37 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Convention. At a session held on 6 July 2007, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention against Doping in Sports. Compared to the international anti-doping efforts in sport, the government's 2007 regulation established a Croatian anti-doping agency, and until the establishment of HADA, the doping control was part of the HOO. In 15 years, 10 athletes were punished, and 5 of them in the first year of HADA. The agency's work so far has been done in the field of systematic monitoring and coordination of actions by government and non-governmental organisations in the fight against doping in sport, proposing and implementing measures in the fight against doping and applying WADA conventions, rules of international sports alliances and the International Olympic Committee. The Agency has co-operated and co-operated with the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Culture – the Department of UNESCO, and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. As part of NGOs, the agency collaborated with the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Paralympic Committee, National Sports Alliances and Sports Clubs. The law on sport provides that athletes should not take illicit funds or doping or apply procedures which are not permitted under the rules of the World Anti-doping Agency and that trainers and authorised doctors and other persons in sport should not grant unauthorized funds or encourage them to take illicit funds or apply procedures which are illegal under WADA rules. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the Sport Act are proposed to prescribe, in addition to the prescribed ban on the taking of funds and the application of procedures which are not permitted under WADA rules and to prohibit the taking of funds and the application of procedures which are not permitted under the provisions of the HoO and the International Olympic Committee, as well as the obligation of athletes to allow the conduct of the doping control. So these changes are also proposed to join the Agency of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, which would take over officials and furniture, funds, rights, obligations and jobs, means everything that goes on. This legislative proposal for a reorganisation contributes to the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority whose work resources are provided in the state budget, while at the same time ensuring continued and quality professional work in this area by means of operations of systematic implementation and monitoring of measures in the fight against doping in sport. My colleague, Srb, mentioned earlier that insufficient money is given to athletes with which I definitely agree, but also colleague Marinovic said that the unit of local self-government in its budgets gives a large amount of money that serves as a mere voting machine, which I definitely disagree with. Here, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60150	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have one replica reported. Dear colleague Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've been nice and... talking about sports and, of course, fighting doping, of course, in cooperation with the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, and in any case, it's also necessary to do additional efforts. But I, like you, caught a statement from my colleague, Anticevic-Marinovic, who said that huge funds from local self-government units are investing in clubs to buy an electoral body. For me, it's absolutely unacceptable, I just don't know what to call one of those statements. So does sport have alternatives? Is legalizing easy drugs on your part, is that an alternative? Well, I have three football clubs in my midst, and I'm happy to have them to play and that these youngsters can play sports and watch these big monsters that threaten us and abuse drugs and everything, that we can participate in and provide that youth with some sport and some opportunities and just one such statement I keep inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60152	Thank you. The answer to my colleague's replica box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60153	I thank my colleague, Stjepana Milinkovic, and I also agree with you that it is nice when the unit of local self-government, in this case your municipality or any other municipality can take care of others. In the area, I will talk about football three sentences, in our Zadar County we have a total of 38 football clubs, amateurs and a total of about 5000 football players, of which more than half are children. I think that we need to allocate more money, try to create the best possible conditions for these kids not to be on the street but on the playground, so I repeat, once again I disagree with my colleague Marinovic's finding that it serves exclusively as a mere voting machine, although it is exactly the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60154	Thank you. A distinguished colleague colleague, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, also applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another attempt to address the problem of inefficient large-scale and expensive public administration. However, I must say, the goal does not justify the means. The Agency is this specific and necessary to remain this way and I cannot support this proposal in fact and no one has given us any indicators that will lead us to accept, apart from increasing efficiency in the work. And the problem of doping is big, namely, in recent years we have almost daily witnessed doping scandals since the first control of 68. With the Sport Act, which is of course, we have seen on several occasions today, we need an amendment, since 2006 actually regulates the issue of doping under the name of health care. I must mention here Juan Antonia Samaran, who is a lifetime honorary president of the International Olympic Committee, died, of course, who says that doping is not only a danger to the health of athletes but is a form of fraud that we cannot accept. So we see that the agency has to exist, not actually fusing with the Department of Toxicology at the Ministry of Health. The problem is that the use of doping is other than it's getting more and more widespread, it's spreading to younger and younger athletes, the percentage is high in teenagers who actually have severe consequences, because it's precisely anabolic steroids that are used harder and stronger damages precisely these age groups. I have to mention one poll from the 84 Olympic Games when it was made among 190 participants, they asked if they would rather win a gold medal or silver at the Olympic Games, and thus risked their lives, to die of doping in 5 years, unfortunately the results showed that 76% of the respondents responded yes. Today, there have been suggestions that this agency is being fuzzed and with the Office of Restraint, I think this kind of thing is different. Addiction is one problem, however, this type of doping is a completely different problem. In general, we can say that countries support sport precisely because it helps promote the state, of course it's evidence of success, superiority amongst others, and that's why I say that this is a different problem. I learned from the media, preparing for this debate, unfortunately that Croatia is about doping, that it can be compared to Mexico, that these are the most toxic things that are very affordable, which can cause sterility with other risks to human health, but also that they can come very easily, in fact, by buying such funds. So basically there are two arguments that are presented in support of the ban on doping that is, on the one hand, a health hazard, on the other hand, taking these funds leads to an unfair result, which is actually created by fraud. And we can conclude that the doping scandal is a heavy burden to the entire sport. In the end, I must say that in the fight against doping in addition to criminal law and with strict sports sanctions, we must also think about the education of critical groups, minors, athletes about the consequences that leave the use of doping to their health. I'm sorry I heard from the HDZ, that the SDPs didn't care about the money. DAD By joining such agencies, or fusion that this is about saving, however, I must tell you that we care about the problem, and that is why we cannot accept this proposal of fusion of the Agency, because we see that the problem of doping exists, that the agency should survive for the reasons that are mentioned at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60156	Thank you very much, colleague. We've got one report of a rectification. Dear colleague Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Šimac Bonačić, said in her debate several times "age must exist". My colleagues, Shimac Bonačić, that's not true. The Agency doesn't have to exist. The activity must be carried out, therefore, and the activity carried out. The task for which it has been established must be achieved. But you know very well that the International Convention against Doping in Sports predicts the existence of national anti-doping organisations and their tasks, but does not condition them to be separate legal entities. So different countries have solved it differently, but I remind you, and that's why I'm correcting it, the agency doesn't have to exist. Therefore, the Croatian Anti-doping Agency as an independent institution does not have to exist. The proposal amending and supplementing the law ensures that both the activity and the tasks are carried out according to the proposal and the Tox screen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60158	Thank you. A distinguished colleague counterpart, Shimo Djurdjevic, will continue to apply for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my preparation for this individual debate, colleagues and colleagues have, and by the clubs and individually, repeated themselves in order not to repeat myself, so I'm going to fly over this text of mine over my preparation. As representatives in Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, we received for this session from the Government of the Republic of Croatia a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports with the Final Proposal of the Law. The adoption of this law is necessary in order to implement the Programme of Economic Recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with regard to the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 23 July 2010 on the reorganisation of agencies, institutes, funds and other legal persons with public authority with the aim of improving efficiency, economy in work and the reduction of budget resources for their work, as already demonstrated and said here. The law on sport provides that athletes should not take illicit drugs, nor should they apply procedures which are not permitted under the rules of the World Anti-doping Agency, and that trainers, authorised doctors and other persons in sport must not grant to an athlete illicit funds or to seek or encourage him to take illicit funds or to apply procedures which are not permitted in accordance with the rules of the World Anti-doping Agency. These amendments and additions to the Sport Act propose that, in addition to the prescribed ban on the taking of funds and applicable procedures which are not permitted under the rules of the World Anti-doping Agency, the ban on the taking of funds and the application of procedures which are not permitted under the rules of our Croatian Olympic Committee and the International Olympic Committee, as well as the obligation of athletes to permit doping controls. In addition to these amendments and additions, it is proposed to delete those provisions of the Sport Act, and to propose the annexation of the Agency, as has been said so far, to repeat, to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, which would take over officials and appointments, funds, rights, obligations, jobs of writing and other documentation of the Agency. This legislative proposal for a reorganisation contributes to the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds and other real persons with public authority whose work is provided in the state budget. At the same time, by expanding the work cycle of the Institute's activities systematically implement and monitor measures in the fight against doping in sport, it would ensure continued quality, professional work in this area in the system of the institution that performs and related jobs. It is also not necessary for the implementation of this law to provide additional resources in the State budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is also important to me. I support this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Sport Act with the Final Proposal of the Law and I would like to add my personal opinion. Sports that, from kindergartens, elementary and secondary schools, colleges, and what we're talking about from that mass to go to quality sports, medals by me at the end, and health at the beginning. A healthy nation at the beginning. From that mass to one continuous... process to get to the medal, not at all costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60160	Thank you. A colleague, Marija Lugarić, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60161	Dear fellow Djurdjevic, you may know how to answer the question we have been trying to get an answer all morning and we haven't received it. How many kunas are we going to save by passing this law in numbers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60162	Reply to the replica of fellow Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60163	Thank you. My colleagues, as a man who has devoted his life invitation to children and sports, raising children in variety, in school and out of school, to me under number one, in my opinion, are not so important to the means, for me it is important to the health of children, the health of students, the health of the nation. But here in the text it's said who's taking over, so it takes over the employees, the equipment and everything, and I think that the continued good work will be continued at the Toxenology Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60164	Thank you. The esteemed colleague Zdenko Franic continued to apply for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60165	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is another one in a series of laws with which we began the debate yesterday, which is in the explanation they have a purpose to implement certain rationalizations as the Government says. The basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of an article of the Croatian Parliament 159. The Rules of Procedure, which says "should implement the reorganisation of agencies, institutes, funds and other legal persons with public authority with the aim of improving efficiency and economy in work, and reducing budget resources for their work". The question arises, what are these savings, and what are these improvements? What will happen by joining this agency with the Croatian Institute of Toxicology? This Agency has been certified by the World Anti-doping Agency, namely WADA for certain laboratory tests. Unfortunately, it has not yet gone through full accreditation because it takes some time for its work to be monitored. Let us remember what Mr Mateša from the Croatian Olympic Committee said. He says the obligation to have such an agency has nothing to do with the Croatian Olympic Committee or the International Olympic Committee, obligations stemming from the Copenhagen Declaration on Combating Doping, which Croatia also signed. The abolition of such an agency would call into question the maintenance of major sports competitions in Croatia. Why she's breaking up I don't know. We have to have a body like that, and now it's a question of what kind of organisational form it's going to be, says Matesha. However, the fact is that after the agency passed a certification from the government of any change in its organisational structure, joining the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, which a proposal does not exactly have a consistent activity like this agency, will require additional supervision from the government to be paid. How much of these funds, is she going to undo this possible savings? Regarding this second paragraph, or another clarification in the proposal for the adoption of an emergency procedure law, so that the effectiveness of the fight against doping will be improved, the question is how. Why, for example, did you not condition in this law the accreditation of the newly established Croatian Toxicology Institute. By standard 17025 which only proves the competence of the laboratory to conduct certain tests. In the end, we in Croatia have 200 laboratories, testing laboratories that are accredited according to the 17025 standard, and many of them have also been accredited for methods of testing drugs and stimulating agents in blood secretions, urine. We have experience, we have knowledge, so why laws have to be mechanically passed just to bring it in, to do it. Why don't we really get into the metrics and fix certain laws with the measure if the reorganisation is already being implemented. Here is one of your advice on how to improve the effectiveness of the future joint Croatian institution with which, I do not know if you have contacted Professor Plassic about this gift his office will give. The toxicology situation is very, very complex. Here we are witnessing two three weeks ago scandals in the Republic of Croatia related to the case where two workers lost their lives in one basement, so a private laboratory caused a real public panic by misappropriating the status of an accredited body which was simply not true. The Republic of Croatia has a highly developed quality infrastructure, accreditation, normisation, certification, measurement. This was one of the strongest criteria for closing Chapter 1.-Free movement of goods, people, capital and services, so free market, so why not use the funds from this segment here and in this extremely important segment of sport and fight doping, to combat and monsters among athletes who are probably the biggest acute problem of Croatian sport. Unfortunately, the situation is such that this agency is under current commitments under the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and it will all need to be changed, coordinated to continue the work of an agency in a different form. And the question is how rational it really is, and how much it's bringing additional mess and entropy into the whole system. And unfortunately, this is once again a law that has insufficient reason to convince us of the purpose of this law. There is no efficiency analysis, no benefit analysis, and no flaw, or what is called in the economy cost benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60166	Thank you very much. We have one application for replication. Dear colleague Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I needed to present my colleague Franic briefly. So, a colleague, anything can, anything can be declared both demagogy and the other side to explain from the lady's point of view positive or especially from the expert. Let's get out of ours, we're agents, let's get out of our parking lot. So, we don't have anywhere to park the car, we pay for our parking lot. On the one hand, it may seem pointless. On the other hand, on one symbolic level, it is very important. So, among other things, savings and such small savings are important to participate in. If we're talking about this problem, and we're ignoring that we're not going to spend any more money on space, you understand, and we're not going to spend money on that space in the future, so that's not irrelevant. That's not irrelevant. On the other hand, if we join this institution to another institution that is fully qualified to accept and further improve and improve the work of this institution and do not question the essence at all, then indeed, it is necessary to return to the essence, and the essence is that the functioning of the profession is ensured and that is unquestionable. And on the other hand, any savings as much as it was, and the savings in the space that we're talking about, which is this much now or as much as you're about to stand out in the future, and it won't stand out if we bring the people, the equipment to another institution that I'm completely repeating is qualified, trained, and with these people, it's actually going to ensure that they continue to implement what's the essence, which is this anti-doping, that is, doping control. Here I think that we really need to get back to reality and that any savings and possible savings should be welcomed, and certainly make sure that we ensure the savings that we are talking about, but the functioning of the profession, of course, not to question what is absolutely and what will be unquestionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60168	Replication response, colleague Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60169	Dear colleague, I have never mentioned demagogy in my speech, and I don't think this is a demagogy, but I've only limited myself to saying that we haven't had enough explanation for where the savings are. We have spent the last few years investing in the work of this agency equipment lab, equipment with equipment. Therefore, in order to obtain the certification needed and in the future and accreditation of one of the basic requirements of the norm is sufficiently equipped space, equipment. Therefore, if they come to the Tox screen, they will likely need some extra space there that will have to be arranged according to the requirements of the norm and it costs everything. It costs and synchronise paper certification, re-emergence of auditors, appraisers on the spot. I don't doubt there may be savings here, but it would be good if we had one table which is additional costs, which are additional savings regarding the adoption of this bill, so let's draw a line and see whether it's worth it or not. And besides, it wasn't just the motive of this law, as it says, it was saving, it was also increasing efficiency. And my question is any mechanisms, and how and what is that going to improve?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60170	Thank you very much. And with this, we've exhausted applications for individual debates. We have a statement for the closing statement on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a distinguished colleague of MPs Marija Lugaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60171	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we spent three hours, two hours discussing a law that we didn't get an answer to how it would increase the efficiency of public administration, for which we didn't get an answer on how much funds it would save in the state budget. We hope that the secretary of state will finally answer that, and in fact, we did not discuss in the House that 15 people were left without a house and an apartment a day because they could not pay off their loans, that we were not discussing again that 80,000 people were out of work this year, and by the end of the year, another 30,000 people would be out of work. And in these circumstances, we are discussing not knowing what minimum savings. However, this law exists after this debate one seems to us to be an additional problem which has also motivated us to actually conclude that this law, since it will obviously be accepted, given the club's statement goes into two readings. In fact, you don't know what you want here. The government said in its decision that these jobs should be done by the Olympic Committee. So he suggested to the Parliament that he join with the Department of Toxicology. We have an amendment to the HDZ Club that says that by passing the law, this toxicology office is now called the Toxicology and Antidoping Institute, which is controversial for two reasons. From the first because we, by adopting this amendment, are amending the Health Protection Act in the essential work. I don't know if we're legally allowed to do that at all, and it would be good to investigate. Secondly, with this HDZ amendment, it would be good to know what will be the cost of changing the institution's name. So changes in all the tables, changes in all the cards, changes in all the memos, changes in all the stamps. Since we don't know what it's going to be saving by abolishing the agencies, and we know they're going to pass on all the employees and all the jobs because that job doesn't just work for anyone else, I'm afraid this law is going to cost us. On the other hand, the coalition partner HSS has its third idea now, which is that the anti-doping agency is being transferred to the Office for Drug Control and Drug Abuse. In any case, as many party proposals as possible for this solution. Obviously, neither, nor the third, nor the fifth is imaginary enough, and in fact we do not know the concrete effects of either the first, or the second, or the third, which for us in the SDP especially in the situation in which the state is located is not a sufficient minimum reason for us to support this and all of these laws. So I'm saying, with a request that you don't at least accept this now, but to really think about what we're going to do because we're all in favour of sports and sports mass and that sport is really what that sport must be, which includes being free of all the stimulants that don't have room in sports. We're afraid that by eliminating the anti-doping agency with various different visions that none of them are fully designed we'll do bad and sport, that we'll do bad and the system itself, and we don't really know why we're doing it. And in the end, I have to say a little bit that from the SDP, and it's not surprising that kind of wandering or HDZ that says one thing in the government, and then that same government proposes another, and the HDZ suggests a third, the HSS suggests a fourth, and that same coalition four years ago is also proposing the introduction of that agency. If we didn't need her, why did you propose and vote to support her establishment three and a half years ago, she's just telling us that in one such small example, Croatia is showing once more that in all its segments, and even those extremely depolitised, those who should be extremely depolitised as sport and only one hostage of not finding HDZ, not finding the coalition and their inner things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60172	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, the esteemed Secretary of State Diana Vican. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs and MPs. I thank you for such a long discussion, and I will give my reasons. For the first hour and a half, the proposal of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport on the Law on Sport was applied and interpreted as the abolition of the Agency, and the second and a half hours related to the abolition of activity. I'm sorry to have to go back to the beginning and say we're not even cutting the agency, and at least we're not shutting down the activity. The government of the Republic of Croatia has opted for a fight against doping, and will insist on it, and I think the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not think of it or save on it. In fact, the programme of economic recovery was several readers, which we interpreted nicely that certain objectives and activities relate to savings, and some relate to rationalisation. And savings and rationalization can have their quantitative data, they can have their qualitative data. When 6 persons who are in this case employees of the Anti-doping Agency move to another other space that exists long-term, which is called the Institute, which has all the most competent experts and when 6 competent experts from one space move to another space and free this space that could even be donated, we evaluated it by one rationalization. If 6 top anti-doping experts, which the state supports and does not save on it, take it to a space that is very well equipped with laboratory equipment that is the most expensive equipment, if you want with the information equipment that is cheap but not cheap, which has been given space to laboratory activity to analyse these, which is carried out by the Anti-doping Agency may not work with... but in the first step it will expand it with its associates, which may give us proposals along with the National Sports Council that we supported, so it will cheapen the field tests, so that in this way and local self-government will get one price for this test, we have qualitatively evaluated it both in the short and long term by saving which, now can't turn into a two-legged calculator and say, which doesn't mean I won't have regular reports, and point to that. [[You don't understand.]] We said that there remains respect for the Ratification Act, that there are no other requirements for international conventions, that there are no obstacles that our ministries are doing their work neatly and effectively and effectively, not to estimate that this one shift towards quality of work, better working conditions, where it is not only relevant in terms of efficiency, but even more effective, which are steps in the work, that the ministries can not be hermetically closed, but that those activities can be tied up and all of this has led me to refuse, or accept the SDP proposal to return the proposal of the Sport Act to first reading, i.e. to accept the amendment given by HDZ, which is a very clear and accurate name, because it respects the anti-doping activity, and the accession of the Croatian Institute for Toxicology, which was actually a fundamental purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60174	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60175	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 606. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that reads: "1. On the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, with a final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 606 discussions were held in the first reading. 2. Any objections and suggestions for discussion will be addressed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the text of the final draft law." The government was pretty obvious. During the debate, the proposing representatives did not accept this proposal as a conclusion, so let us vote on a proposal for a conclusion that the government did not adopt. Here you go. Score. These conclusions were not accepted, for 53, abstention 1, versus 65. The amendment was also submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted amendments to the club of representatives and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. So, I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Sport Act, together with the amendments adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 77 votes, nothing abstentions and 43 against, along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60176	And we move to the next item of the agenda, which is - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 596 You received the proposal by mail. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply, which means that amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, and by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. We've received a report from the board. The amendment was submitted by Legislative Committee and MP Emil Tomljanovic. Does the proposal's representative want to explain the proposal, take the opening statement? Yeah. Secretary of State Kresimir Rogman. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60177	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. So at the 24th September session, the Croatian Parliament discussed and adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, first reading. This final proposal for a law with respect to the proposals put forward, and in particular with the observations of the social partners, the proposal for a law from the first reading is partially amended. But before I make any difference with the first reading, I would just briefly remind myself why the law is changing and what are the basic changes. So the law is changed for three reasons, I would say, firstly, to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision of 18 April 2007, which abolished the provisions of Articles 30, 31, 66 and 78 of paragraph 2 of the Law, so those concerning different conditions for obtaining a pension between men and women. The second reason is the situation in the pension system, in terms of most facts and data from that system, that in the number of users, their age, when they start using pensions, the number of pensioners' relations, and the number of insurance companies, therefore which are such that they indicate that under these conditions, under such conditions the system is difficult to sustain and that it should be changed. I'm going to mention only two, three data, so the ratio of the number of insurance and the number of pensioners is one, 29 insurance companies versus 1 pensioners, so 129 to 100 say, 40 years of internship has just over 11% of pensioners 11.65, with an internship of 35 to 39 years 23.8 slightly less than 24%, so about 35% of pensioners have more than 35 years of internships. And thirdly, due to all this previous economic recovery programme, short-term phasing-out measures for early retirement and amending the rules for early retirement are envisaged with the financial finalisation of early retirement. I remind you, therefore, of what is important in the law compared to the current law, therefore, it is crucial to change the equality of the age of men and women to retire. So as it is done by a decision of the Constitutional Court, the starting factor for early retirement is changed and the third time is the factor of the increase for the persons who will remain working after obtaining the conditions for retirement. What changes compared to first reading of the law? Equivalence of the age of men and women as conditions for retirement is, of course, resolved primarily by amending the provisions of Articles 30 and 31 of the Law, of course, 66 and 78, but this is especially the case, which the Constitutional Court repeals, but clearly with a transitional period. The proposal proposed this transitional period of 10 years in the first reading, i.e. by a gradual increase of 6 months each year. So, six months a year. It is now proposed for a longer transitional period, so double the transitional period, it is a 19-year period of 3 months a year, so that men and women from 1 January 2030, and not since 2020, an old and early retirement pension would be achieved on equal terms and age and pensions. Of course, this reduces one positive financial impact. So it slows down and decreases, but it makes it easier for women to make the transition longer and easier because it is twice as slow. It is also amended, i.e. the original proposal, the starting factor for early retirement. I remind you now that starting factor is a 0.15% reduction per month, which is 1.8% and 9%, respectively, in 5 years, which is the most possible retirement early. The first reading suggested that this starting factor was 0.34% per month as it was up to 1.01.2008 which would be 4.8% per year and 20.4% for a total of 5 years. But now one scale is proposed to go from 0.15 to 0.34 addictions. So this reduction factor is being added to the internship as one corrective factor. So the reduction would then be as follows, so for insurance companies – we're talking about men, and in the transitional period, this would be equally solved for women by the gradual increase of 3 months, so I now speak an example for men. So, a 36-year-old pensioner, so going into early retirement, would be shrinking by 0.34% per month for each month of his early retirement. The 37-year-old security guard's standing by 0.29%, so that 0.05 would grow or fall from which side we're looking. An insurance man with 38 years of retirement training by 0.24% per month, a 39-year-old pensioner by 0.19% per month, and a 40-year-old pensioner and more by 0.15% per month. So as much as that reduction is now. Of course, during the transitional period until the end of 2029 and for women, these age and internship conditions would be gradually increased, and this reduction throughout the transitional period would have to be indicated in particular for each year. In relation to the first reading proposal, this will, of course, also reduce the positive financial effects of change and may not achieve that actuarial justice in relation to one individual. So when someone, when viewed from an individual’s point of view, whether he worked shorter or longer, a higher importance will be given to the retirement internship. So that retirement internship will be further appreciated. And in doing so, I have to stress the retirement internship is not in itself a risk that is secured in the pension system, but it is years of life, death and disability. However, since the internship is undoubtedly of paramount importance, this pension internship is given an additional value, so it is appreciated that longer people work and that between different users, a higher degree of justice may be achieved. And the third change, an increase is proposed, one starting factor that increases pensions for those who remain to work after obtaining conditions for retirement. In the first reading, this was proposed to be equal to the reduction of 0.34, but of course in plus, per month longer work, and now it is proposed to be a slightly smaller amount. So that minimum amount from the scale that applies to the reduction of factors, which is 0.15 per month. Of course, it will also be in the transitional period for women for each year in particular determine the conditions of course, not this percentage is always the same. And finally, a small change from the third reading refers to one thing, I would say, technical alignment with the Farmers' Law. Of course, this law also has its financial effects and it is clear that by changing the law, there is an inflow of new users that always happens when such a law is amended. Therefore, in the medium and long term, a reduced inflow of users is expected as due to the extension of the internships and also due to the reduction in early retirement, so this will affect reduced inflows and longer payments will be made. However, in the short term as I have said, there will be an increase in costs, and this is one necessity in changing the Pensions Act when rights change for users to a stricter extent, so there will be an increase in expenditure by 2 criteria. One is due to an increase in the rights that is due to this increase of 0.15% per year for those who stay longer working after obtaining conditions for retirement, and the other is of course because one number, i.e. one number of insurance workers has already gone into early retirement or perhaps older, because they expect changes that would be more unfavourable to them. This is about, when it comes to part of the cost, it is an indirect fiscal effect of this Law, which is why, although, therefore, we have a situation where a population reduction of rights in the first period leads to an increase in costs. Following this assessment, how much expenditure will be increased, or when it will be reduced. Thus, in 2010, an increase in expenditure is expected by around 30 million kuna, in 2011 by around 120 million kuna, in 2012 by around 35 million kuna. However, after these expected initial expenditure increases, there will be a further reduction in expenditure. Around 50 million are expected in 2013, around 140 million, in 2015 about 240 million, etc., so expenditures will move away thus increasing. In doing so, I would still like to say a few data given the very large, much interest in how early people retired, so on speculation about the number of people who went into retirement because of the law. In the last 2009 mentioned 12 thousand 15 early pensions, the number of applications was higher, it was 18 thousand 775 but the real data and comparable data were pension solutions, because the demands can be resolved in the following year and then transferred every year, and they can be rejected because people have no conditions, and people file a request and give up. So we're working on early retirements, not on demands. The first data we worked on was June 30th of this year where there were 9544 early pensions, and last year there were 5425, which was a 75% increase. That's in six months. However, in 2009 compared to 2008, there were slightly less than 40%, 37% increase, so in 2008 there were 3958, which again had 38% increase compared to the previous year. In nine months this year, it was, so in six months we had an increase of 75%. And I'm telling you a year ago, compared to earlier, I'm saying 37. However, 30. Nine. In 2010, there were 13,000 873 solutions, compared to the same period a year earlier, in 2009 where there were 8510 increases of 63%. What exactly happens by the end of the year, no one knows for sure. If we just calculated mathematically and divided the average of 9 months by 9 and then added that average to these remaining three months, we would have about 18.5 thousand, which would be a 54% increase compared to last year. However, if the law enters into force now, at the beginning of the 11th month, it is not to expect this additional increase in the next two months, because the reason why part of the pensioners may have retired, and this is to use the more favourable right of... the law, will no longer have reason to. In that regard, of course, I must say, no matter how many people who have gone into early retirement are only caused by a change of laws. Therefore, a significant increase in early retirement in the first half of the year is certainly not due to the Law or only by law because the law was only started before summer, and those first months were not even spoken of. Unfortunately, therefore, one significant part of the early pensioners went into retirement for other reasons since the dismissal, the closure of businesses and the like caused by this economic situation. NO, part of it probably went away and safely and because of the law but it is an inevitability that cannot be avoided and it is okay for people to know in advance that the law will change and that they have the right to exercise their right now or later. And finally, let me just say a few references to what was not accepted in this final proposal regarding the debate that was held in the Parliament, the plenary session, and the committees. The proposal that was on the Assembly Committee on Development and Reconstruction in the Assembly was not accepted, that there was no pensioning of early pensions because it would change the situation in terms of rights and the situation financially. Secondly, there is no equality of age for men and women or, as was the Committee on Reconstruction and Development, it is said that women who raised up to 6 children should be allowed early retirement. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court's decision, I will not say unfortunately because it is a fact that the Constitutional Court's decision allows nothing but strict application to be conditions for the retirement of men and women equally. There have also been suggestions that this increase in pension should not be built in, therefore, this... acquisition of the conditions for retirement because there are no such solutions in the world, in several countries so directly increasing, for example in Germany it is 0.3% reduction for early hours, and 0.3 increase for work longer there are both in Slovakia and other countries, however, there is also indirectly according to the accounting system that corresponds to the system as for the second pillar, so this increase is indirectly embedded. The proposal was also related to Article 24, which in a special way resolves the way of accounting, those late payments where otherwise favourable for insurance companies is calculated, so not the first costs, so interest, then the principal, but the proportional principal and interest, with the details being solved by the sublaw of the Regulation. The reference was made to the regulation that this should not be adopted, but the answer is the article gives frames, gauges how this is resolved and this sublegal act under these gauges will solve it. And what has also not been adopted is the proposal that for 40 years of internships, this is a condition for retirement so for retirement regardless of age. As I said before, this is a proposal that is not acceptable, because it completely changes both the system and the costs. The internship itself is not a criterion for obtaining terms of retirement. And finally, we have amendments to the law. Therefore, one amendment of the Assembly Committee on Legislatives to Article 26 supplementing this article in a way that adds the word 15 more years of retirement. It's done for precision, that amendment we accept. We also have an amendment from MP Emil Tomljanovic to Article 32 that the article reads: "This law will be published in the National Journal and enter into force on 1 November 2010. And that amendment is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60178	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues before continuing to work on this agenda, I call on the new representative, Djurdju Adlesic, to give the oath. And we're moving on with the debate now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. My colleague Kunst. Here you go. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60180	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So at the 46th session held on 20 October 2010, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. The opening argument was also given by the applicant. I wouldn't talk about him because he was here alone, but I would just point out what the board members stressed in the debate. The committee members gave a positive assessment of the solutions accepted by the applicant, which relate to a longer period of time for the equalisation of age for the right to early retirement and the evaluation of the pension. An opinion has been put forward that, with such positive developments, further penalization is made in determining the starting factor for determining early retirement. In the debate, the applicant also clarified the provision of Article 7 of this Act, which refers to a simpler and more favourable way of determining the insurance standings, on the basis of paid contributions to pension insurance, which would be determined by the Rules of Procedure by the Minister responsible for Pension Insurance, with the prior consent of the Minister of Finance. The debate gave an opinion that women in the Republic of Croatia were discriminated against on the labour market, that positive discrimination was allowed under the Law on Gender Equality, and that there is no need to level the conditions for obtaining a pension for women and men. In the debate, part of the Committee members proposed an amendment to Article 32 in such a way as to bring this law into force instead of on the 8th day since its publication in the National Journal, to enter into force on the 1st of the following year, this means 2011. The proposed amendment was not accepted. The debate stressed that this law is the fruit of the compromise of social partners, and that proposals and suggestions were accepted to a significant extent both by the social partners and by the proposals in the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by majority, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to adopt this Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60181	Thank you, fellow Kunstu. The second committee has no interest in further clarification. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60182	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Principal, Mr. Rismondo, warm greetings and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Of course, before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act in the second reading. What still grieves over these key laws that in some ways frame the labour market remains without the consensus of the social partners, which means that our social dialogue in the Republic of Croatia is in crisis. There are statements that trade unions are also talking about this law in a way that is partial to a higher objective, and the union's higher goal was to discuss and search the pension system from a sustainability title and from an illogical point of view within the next 6 months. Therefore, there is no precise position of the Economic and Social Council or social partners here. What is even more sad, there is no analysis in the bill, no figures. It is equally true if I say that for the next five years we will not compensate for the damage of people going to early retirement for those who should not have left this year, as well as yours that you will save 100 million kuna in the next three years. It's exactly the same, or it's mine, because this damage of about a billion kuna made this year, and it wasn't necessary to do it, it won't be able to make up so quickly. And all of this looks to me like, this procedure about this law, the trade in the sense of acting in supermarkets. First I raise the price and then I go with the stocks to put it down. Now there's exactly one drop-off action, but it's not worth it, it's punishing those who are going to retire early. Of course, it should also be acknowledged that this law compared to the bill in the first reading that it had experienced changes, that it sounded better in the second reading than in the first one, but nevertheless it was only a shift from very bad to bad, and what little light at the end of the tunnel was finally a little recognition of the job experience, that is, after 11 years of retirement insurance, where the internship as a category, as the value of the pension insurance system was completely excluded from any account. What does not give this law a green light is the punishment of pensioners who have done their internship and who have been charged with contributions. Punishment is inappropriate, punishment is life-long and punishment is an increase in the punishment of those who have already been punished. I remind you of the statistics. Early average internship 35 years and 6 months old in 2009, we speak, age average 27 years, so 8 years less average internship, disabled average internship 23 years. The average duration of all pensioners 27 years and 8 months. So early pensions have 22% more internships than the average of all pensions, and when we frame it in 2009 prematurely have 24% more internships than the elderly and 13% lower value of the year, the average year of internships. It's even more drastic than disability pensions. The early ones have 32% more internships than the disabled and 13% lower value of the year of internships. So, at 2009 level, both the age pension and the disabled who wear less internships are worth an average of 78 kuna per year, and these early pensions are worth 68 kuna per year. Everyone's saying it's 9%, so far 9% doesn't hold water. 9% and a reduction from 20.4 to 9% of pensions in five years or 0.34 coefficients dropped to 0.15 was the result of a compromise in 2007 because people were drastically denied their rights. This was also the reason for us to pass a special law on pension allowance in order to equate in some way the rights of old and new pensioners and that the period of insurance years of the internship would be much closer to what we had by 2007. And I say, it was a compromise that was durable. What we bring for tomorrow, because this will not apply, this amendment and the addition of the law will not apply to those who are already retired but those who are going to retire is terrible and I say punishment but to those who will be, which are, in particular, now the most punished category in the pension system. And we say, look, it can't, we set the standard of years of life on pedestal values. But gentlemen, we ignore the fact that for more than 400,000 pensioners in Croatia, the criteria were not years of life, or were not these proposed years of life. That's all 270 thousand disability pensions, one part all the defenders, all the military, the police. So, all those who have special conditions this year didn't hook up. So we're only talking about 60% of the total number of pensioners that are subject to the rules, while other rules don't apply. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's polite to throw my colleague Djakic off the bench. Of course, I don't want to do the president's job, but I can say it openly, I'm saying what's right. For those categories I've said, there's no criterion of age set in this law. They're worth some other years of life to them, to the disabled and to the defenders and to the police and to the army. Therefore, you can correct whatever you want, but you are correcting very arbitraryly, and please take a look at your newsletter and you will understand a lot if you understand something. Keep going. We spoke in the first reading in front of the Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian Party of Retireds about the need for 40 years of internship and 40 years of payment of contributions to be one value that should never be penalized again. And there can't be a retirement goal just with years of life, and independent of years of internships and we've advocated that combined goal. Of course, in these shifts made by the Government she reequaled all those who have over 40 years of internship and put them all in one category of penalization with a coefficient of 0.15 as if it were equal to 40 or 43 or 45, or where this law guides us, for a woman who starts working at 15 years after 20 years it will take 50 years to retire. So, if he decides to retire at 45 years of age, he'll be penalizing 0.15 a month early retirement again. So it can't be the same thing as 40 or 43 or 45 years of internship, and there's that there was good access to this law that rock could continue. Furthermore, we suggested that a category of unemployment be installed here. Namely, this has most of the pension systems that we are relying on and which are our reputation specifically for the German system, where a worker who runs out of work because he was declared redundant or in case of closure or bankruptcy of companies first ends up at the Employment Office. And if he's been out there looking for a job for two years, and he doesn't get a proper job, he agrees to any requalifications, any training that the Employment Service organizes. But still, he doesn't get a job from the Employment Service declares him unemployed and he retires without any penalization. This is correct to those who did not have to leave, or those who did not leave by their own free will, but who had to leave early retirement. Of course, the promoter did not even refer to this proposal, and it was contained in the amendments that we have promoted and will be retained in these amendments to this bill. What I have yet to say is I have nothing against rewarding the long-term labour market. But what we do. We have a youth unemployment rate that exceeds 30%. Does this mean taking up jobs for those young people who need to enter the world of work and who, if this is how trends continue at 60 years of age, may be 20 years of internship because it is too much of a form of employment at a certain time where someone is three months old, has five months of internships, 9 months if he is lucky enough not to tell those lucky people who are going to have a full year of work. Therefore, I say I can't say some people will definitely be needed at over 65 years of age and state administration and companies if they have such experience and I don't mind making it possible. But it can't be an obstacle for young people to be hired and these people to be in their seats. What is illogical is that here in this article that defines this rewarding work after 65 years the legislator has not been fenced. Because there are categories that were much less paid, and they're protected by the lowest pension, here would be a two-base reward. And even then I don't mind, but then it can't go to the expense of redistributing amongst pensioners. Such a thing should be shown as a separate item in the budget. Furthermore, what I would like to problemise in this law and not speak in the first reading is Article 7 where it speaks of those who live on their own and the bonds are contributions. There is a significant difference, therefore, between those employed by companies or private or state-owned companies and those who carry out their own activities. Be careful, the non-payment of contributions is treated as a debt for them. It seems that all lawyers, doctors, psychiatrists, or I don't know which other artists that are listed there are all prone to avoiding payment contributions and then counting on them with interest. As long as we have another case, the employer didn't pay for the workers, he didn't pay 3.6 months of contributions. The company went bankrupt. The Croatian Institute of Pensions cannot, appears as a believer but cannot charge anything. However, the stamp in the workbook proves the internship and the pension is unquestionable. While on the other hand we have these who, if they don't pay whether or not they have charged their service, are charged their debt and are charged interest. Now, I don't pay you back, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, not paying your pension from 1993 to '98. in respect of the law in force and paid under the regulation, it was not a debt but compensation under the Constitutional Court's decision. And here the non-payment of contributions because I didn't receive money from the one who independently carries out his activity is the debt on which the state charges interest. So, I'm warning you of complete indifference and the unequal legal position of the insurance company. I'll continue in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60183	Thank you very much, colleague Hrelja. Now we have a nice list of corrections, so I'm also warning in advance that we're correcting the allegations that we don't turn them into polemics. First, an esteemed colleague named Boris Kunst came forward. Here's your colleague, Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60184	Well, my colleague Hrelja said that there is no consensus about this law on social partners, which is incorrect. If you had stayed until the end of the meeting for the Committee and the Social Partnership yesterday, you would have heard from the mouth of the social partners that this law is a compromise of social partners and means that a consensus has been reached and that an agreement is being negotiated where the social partners will be in the working group to monitor the implementation of the law and where they will, through time, jointly try to find solutions for repair if necessary in this pension system. Here's what you'd have heard yesterday if you'd been to the end, but you weren't to the end, and obviously you didn't know that then.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60185	Thank you. The following has applied for the correction of the alleged distinguished colleague Sunchana Glavak. Here you go, fellow Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Kunst corrected the part that I also wrote, but I'm going to correct something else, which is that it's incorrect what my colleague Hrelja said had no social dialogue, and I'm going to back it up with the fact and I'm going to remind that on October 4th when the representatives of the government and the public service unions signed a basic collective agreement, that it was a good signal for the continuation of social dialogue. And I also want to remind you that this government is constantly calling on trade unions to develop social dialogue. And I don't think we heard from the union, so neither did Mr. North, who's a member of our board, that there's no dialogue that doesn't exist, that there's something that can't be agreed on, so please take that into account. So there is a very clear social dialogue, the government is for this and it is called on the permanent and social partners to continue it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60187	Thank you. A prominent counterpart, Josip Djakic, came forward to correct the allegations. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Hrelje, where he claimed that there should be equal criteria for all pensioners, as well as for Croatian wartime wartime people, families of the dead, those Croatian warriors who left... Retirement, etc. [[You don't understand.]] This is an absolutely incorrect claim, and it cannot be given that the explicits of a special law are regulated rights and relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Croatian Defence against those who were killed in the Homeland War. I believe that your personal criteria are questionable and that they should be questioned, and that is probably why you raise such a noise and a familiarity about the criteria needed for retirement. I can't be all the same, because the war situation is a special circumstance that has contributed to the victims, which has contributed to the disabled, which has contributed to the victims of the Homeland War, and you can't put them in the same category.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60189	Thank you. Dear colleague Đurjica Sumrak, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60190	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Here I am exactly Mr. Djakic's representative has corrected one part I wanted, and this second part I will correct Mr. Hrelj in the section in which he listed both persistent and persistent and persistently talking about the disabled, and here are the young people, and finally you need to understand there you are in the Assembly, that they are not disabled, but persons with disabilities. That's the name, that's what you have to learn to let generations who listen to you know how to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60191	Thank you. Something incorrect in the discussion of his colleague, Hrelje, was also noticed by a distinguished colleague, Stjepan Milinkovic, and he also reported for a correction of the quote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I noticed what my previous partners said, so there's no social partners' dialogue, and the second one said there's no analysis. That's not true. Well, a fellow secretary of state talked a lot about analysts, and you've been referring to that analysis, etc. But you said among other things, it's all a store. For you, if you were that merchant at the counter, it would seem to be a good store for me, so they would share everything else without costing anything. It seems to me like a dear colleague that you started the pre-election trade, and it turns out you're like you're in charge here now... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60193	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60194	We showed our consistency when we returned the debt to the pensioners and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60195	Thank you. Let's correct the allegations. Dear colleague Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Hrelja saying that people are deprived of their rights. It's incorrect, Mr. Hrelja, precisely because it's a factor, it's determined both in relation to the years of life, and in relation to the retirement internship. Likewise, people are not deprived of their rights, because there is a double longer transitional period, so, as of 2029, this transitional period will end and men and women will, on equal terms, exercise the right to an age and age early retirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60197	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Kresimir Rogman came forward. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60198	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to refer to some information on how early retirement is more unfavourable than retirement, or to disability pension, so early retirement is worth less and that internship is more. First, the internship has more than normal, and in early retirement, there is an additional insight of the internship, which is bigger than that additional insight into the age pension that is 15 years old. So it's perfectly normal, and it's especially with disabled people because disability is a guaranteed risk. And as for a more favourable early retirement or old age, I'm going to say the data and facts he's made, the calculation made by the Institute of Public Finance. So according to the existing regulations, so before the change to the current law, so if someone goes to early retirement, 5 years earlier they'll get a total, if his pension is a thousand 860 kuna, they'll get a total for the average retirement time of 17 years at 379, 380 thousand kuna. If someone goes to an old peacehouse 5 years later, so we compare one and the same person, so they'll get a pension on average, say 2 thousand 330, they'll get 336 thousand, so 43,000 kuna, the one who stays 5 years longer, 5 years less receiving a pension will get less money. So if I go 5 years before I retire then I'll get more money than I've worked 5 years longer and I've had less pensions for 5 years. So that early retirement is more unfavourable than old age is not true. The other thing, the same thing, is the same thing, so the payment of the contribution. If I'm going to work 35 years with an average salary, I'm going to pay 643 thousand kuna, all according to the calculation of the Institute of Public Finance, and if I'm going to work 40 years, so if I'm going to stay for another 5 years, and 35 is my first condition, I'm going to pay 735 thousand kuna, so 90 thousand kuna more. So if I stay to work longer, I'll pay more contributions, and I'll take less pensions in total. So these are doubtless facts. I also have to look back at the one-billion-dollar damage statement, the paper even talked about two billion. First of all, it is not a matter of such amounts, which we have when making the proposal has been said as much as is expected to increase, and another right for people to take advantage of their right to retire early, because the law is changing is their right and cannot be called any harm. And finally, just to look at the interest issue that the representative of Hrelja spoke about, so the interest must be accounted for, if we don't count interest when inflation is higher without interest, we might have a situation to make extremely small factual contributions to wages. And the other thing is, this bill is going towards a more favourable rate of interest than the general rules because it's not going to cost the interest rate, it's going proportionally. Therefore, this provision is intended to improve and benefit insurance companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60199	Thank you, secretary. Correction of the quote, dear colleague of the Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60200	First, I respect all the calculations, but I ask you to let the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute make Croatian actuarial tables, not that any institute and any institution are using German actuarial tables because their pension system is significantly different from ours. Then I'd like to give you this math. And secondly, I'm sorry, for the calculation of interest, you need to establish a contractual relationship, a debt-religious relationship. No insurance company with the Pension Insurance Office has signed a contract and every year the payment of contributions at the current level can replace any year missing in the total work experience. So let's not talk about things that are legally unfounded, which are the good side of the Ministry of Finance, because then at least something sucks at the expense of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60201	Thank you. But the secretary of state didn't say the contract was closed. ... But then I'm saying it wasn't even fixed because it wasn't even said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But we're moving on, the HSS Representatives' Club and the esteemed colleague, Stanko Grcic. Here's a colleague of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60202	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretaries and representatives of the promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. The debate in the first reading on this proposal also presented proposals and comments from representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament as well as from the competent working bodies. In the Club of the Representatives of the HSS, we will support this bill and we are pleased with the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has considered the proposals and observations and has submitted to the second reading a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, which includes some of the observations made. In the light of the proposal for a law, the applicant specifically calls for the comments of the social partners and highlights the significant differences created by respecting the proposal and the opinions set out in the debate. In line with the above, the Proposer notes that, when considering the provisions of this implementation of the Constitutional Court decision of 18 April 2007, it is not considered acceptable to phase out the conditions of 6 months a year for a period of 10 years for the exercise of the right to retirement and early retirement for women in relation to men in accordance with the opinions of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Gender Equality, as well as the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. It is therefore proposed to bring these conditions into line at 3 months after the calendar year, in which case the transitional period will be 19 years. This will take place at the end of 2029 so that men and women will actually have a retirement pension from 1 January 2030 and an early retirement pension under the same conditions of age and retirement. In particular, the HSS representative club welcomes the changes resulting from taking into account the insurance pension completed, and concerns the starting factor for determining early retirement. According to the proposal, given the importance of reducing early retirement, the user's material and social security, the starting factor for determining that pension would be determined in the future not only in relation to years of life but also in the completed pension course of the insurance company, and in the range of 0.34 to 0.15% per month earlier, the right to pension. In total, it means 20.4 and up to 9% in 5 years. Not 0.34% in all cases as proposed in the first reading. The proposer refers to the opinion of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the parliamentary debate, which expressed its opinion that, regardless of the impact of the pension rate on the level of pension, insurance with a longer retirement period should be particularly protected. Also, in the transitional period until the end of 2029, women will be subject to a gradual tightening of the retirement pension conditions under which they will exercise the right to early retirement, which will be duly accepted when determining the starting factor in these cases. In the debate with the social partners, the starting factor for an increase in the retirement pension in insurance companies that for the first time exercise the right to retire in order to meet age conditions was considered. Too high an increase of 0.34% per month later, the factor is proposed to be 0.15% per month. Total is up to 9% in 5 years. As in previous cases in the transitional period until the end of 2029, women will be determined by the starting factor in these cases in relation to age conditions valid during the same calendar year of the transitional period. We also welcome the changes, i.e. the adopted remarks concerning the new conditions for the coverage of farmers with pension insurance, which means that the proposer has assessed that current insurance should enable farmers to step out of that insurance on their own request if they want to and if they are not in the family holding system. We at the Representatives' Club believe that these adopted remarks, which are incorporated into the bill, are certainly welcome, but once again I will repeat what we pointed out in the debate and in the first reading. We believe that this law must not produce a situation in which women are, but here is the fact that men are even now, with 64 years of age and 48 years of employment, could not achieve the right to retirement, but with 65 years of age and 15 years of experience, the right to do so could be achieved. This is, in fact, a fundamental injustice that we should certainly prevent and take into account, in particular, the fact that the Labour Act allows employment in certain activities from 16 years of age. Here we are encouraged by the agreement and by the promoters and the social partners, encouraging the same thing that the proposals from the first reading are widely accepted in the debate and we believe that such solutions are satisfactory and the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60203	Thank you very much, fellow Greek. The debate continues on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished counterpart Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60204	Honorable Vice President, State Secretary with Associates, fellow MPs. So I think it is very important to stress that this Final Bill is the product of harmonised proposals from the social partners and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the essential changes and additions we have talked about, even though we already talked about it in the first part when we talked about the Law and when it was being discussed. I will repeat this first of all is equalising the age of men and women to retire with 65 years of life, where a period of 20 years has been established, which is compared to that first proposed text of the law, one compromise, agreement between the social partners, and therefore the age and retirement period is proposed to be coordinated every calendar year after three months. Thus, men and women from January 1st 2030 will have a retirement pension and early retirement pension on equal terms, age and pension. Equality of that age for men and women becomes actually a European rule and most European countries are in the process of equating or already equating the age of men and women to retire. For example, for the European countries that have an equal age for men and women, I will especially highlight these with 65 years of life, are Andorra, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Italy, Switzerland, etc., not to add, at 66 years old, Ireland, with 67 years of life to Iceland and Norway. I must also stress that a whole series of countries in Europe are in the process of equating the age of men and women to retire. In addition, the European Regulation obliges the Republic of Croatia to make a decision of the Constitutional Court, which was taken after the procedure for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution, in Articles 30 and 31. Pension Insurance Act, i.e. respecting labour equality in the exercise of pension rights. The Constitutional Court, we spoke and discussed this in the first part, when we discussed the first text of the law, did not actually have a dilemma about making a decision confirming the equality of age for the retirement of women and men because such a decision by the Constitutional Court stems from the existing regulations of the Republic of Croatia, which are the Law on Gender Equality since 2000, then the Croatian Parliament adopted a National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality in 2006 and 2010, and I will also remind the one mentioned before mentioned quite a strategy for the development of the pension system from 2003. I would also point out that the European Court of Human Rights has questioned the infringements of Article 14. Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms related to different ages and confirmed a justifiable equalisation of age for the retirement of women and men. The second thing that is changing and what is important in this law is changing is the starting factor, for early retirement, and the future would be determined not only in relation to the years of life, as was the original proposal but in the completed retirement internship of the pensioners. The starting factor range would be moving, as we have heard here today, from 0.15% to 0.34% a month earlier, so for example, what the secretary of state said up to 36 years of retirement when going to early retirement, the pension will be reduced by 0.34% per month, and gradually from year to year the larger pension rate will decrease less and less, which will reduce the pensions to 40 and what Hrelja's colleagues warned, after 40 years of retirement, by 0.15% per month, and that is the same as the current reduction. As for women, during this transitional period until the end of 2029, they will gradually tighten the conditions of the pension standing under which they will exercise the right to early retirement, which will be applied accordingly in determining the starting factor. By harmonising early retirement, there will be fairer incomes compared to those working until full retirement. That's what the secretary of state talked about even had some calculations on it, so I don't think there's a lot of words to be spent there. What is another news, it is proposed to increase the retirement pension in insurance companies that for the first time exercise the right to retire to meet age conditions. This means that for those who will remain in retirement longer, the pension will increase by 0.15% per month, or 9% in 5 years. The aim of this measure is to stimulate the insurance company to stay as long as possible in the work relationship and pay longer contributions and thus reduce the cost of the pension system. We have also heard about farmers that the conditions in pension insurance are significantly changing and that is why it is proposed to allow the insurance companies so far on their own request to step out of that insurance if they do not want to be in the family holding system. It is very important to say that all these measures in the pension system have been brought in because of the sustainability of the pension system for the future. Because the fact that today is the number of pensioners, at 30. 9. I have the data, a million 192 thousand 921 and an insurance company somewhere 517 thousand 737, so the ratio is the number of insurance and pensioners 1.27:1. Why do I mention that information? I mention that because only two months ago when we discussed this earlier text of the Pension Insurance Act that ratio was 1:29:1. so he was in fact so close in two months and in fact approaching the equalisation of the ratio of pensioners and insurance companies. Such a ratio is normal to destroy the entire pension system. In an age or as some call in full retirement, today there are only 51.42% of pensioners who speak for themselves enough. It is therefore important to take such measures to ensure that in the future the number of insurance companies goes into retirement and that they retire on some other grounds. The average life span also extends year after year, and according to this, the working life will be extended, which is logical. For example. Average year of life in '91. The year, which I mentioned earlier, was 71 years, and in 2009 it was 76.3 years. So that's an indicator of how long that lifetime has gone on, which is good anyway. So the years of life since 1999 are a priority condition for retirement and have a foothold in view of these stated facts. The expenditure on pensions we also heard will be reduced or savings will be felt from the application of the proposed law as early as 2013. And because of everything that's positive, the HDZ club will support and support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60205	Thank you very much. Two applications are a correction of incorrect allegations. First of all, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60206	Mr. Kunst said an incorrect claim that this law is consistent with the social partners. I remind him that social dialogue in the Republic of Croatia is not how he thinks 25 + one, but has been institutionalised in Croatia through the work of the Economic and Social Council, and for a long time we have not received a law on our benches that has received a green light from the Economic and Social Council, therefore from all partners. And in some ways I draw Mr. Kunst's attention that pensions are not cost, but labour-based rights, it's a fee for past work, it's actually an extended salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60207	Thank you. Dear colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Compared to the part where counterpart Kunst spoke about how the Constitutional Court, when making its decision, respected all existing legal regulations and strategies in Croatia. Among other things, he mentioned the Law on Gender Equality. It is not true that the Constitutional Court respected, in its decision, the Law on Gender Equality, because, in its report, it relied primarily on the 2001 Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia, and the first Law on Gender Equality was adopted in 2003 by counterpart Kunst, and already it had a predictive positive discrimination or specific measures. In this case, the Constitutional Court has completely disregarded these provisions of the Law on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60209	Thank you. It's SDP's turn. on behalf of the Club of Representatives, I give my word to Agent Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60210	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's that at the beginning of this presentation, I hope I don't spend all 15 minutes, I'm saying that I can really get the impression that some of the improvements from the first to the second reading have happened. The truth is we already knew when we discussed here and when it was widely discussed that certain changes that were offered here were already and then finished. So it was really a sort of public play and actually preparing the terrain in quite one I would say to the public in an incorrect and slightly unfair way. We talked here about a law that was known not to come up with a proposal, we even went on some kind of show on TV, and we talked about it like it was, and we knew it was what you're offering right now. That's one little incorrection that's just not good and I'd say a pretty ugly light on what's meant to be achieved by this law. At one point in his first presentation Mr. Rogman's secretary of state almost cried out yes, we did. We've jumped them, so 1.11. we're going with the bill of this law and we're going to prevent it from saying that God forbid anyone else has arrived because he's going to have a retired pension after 1.11. compared to the situation now. And that's not a fair story. We will go with an amendment to this law, among other things, to apply that law no matter how it may be and how it is passed, postpone until 1.7 next year. It's a minimum of honesty and correctness to our citizens. These are not the people of Azerbaijan, but our Croatian citizens, the people who worked and created them in such important matters of life as the timing of retirement, to create a condition for them to prepare them in a correct and fair way to calculate those pensions, not to force them into the stampede as they have been in recent months. And I have to say that your data is 37%, etc. I've had a strange increase, and I've had a strange calculation, and it's 100% increased this year. Everyone who could have gone to the temporary has left, with the right to do so. Because what is now being offered means the reduction of rights and the significant retirement of people who need or can go into retirement and need it. Unfortunately, as a little bit of an hour here has been depicted one extremely unacceptable proposal, as bait, as a story, that everyone would now be happy because here is some of what was said here, some or minimal of it appreciated. For example, when it comes to retirement, equalising the retirement rate for men and women to 65 years of age, the deadline has been extended. This can indeed be made acceptable when you watch where it is in 2030, on that side let people not think of such long paths. However, we need to discuss here in principle, based on the principle, some laws. In this case, nothing happened compared to the first reading. We still don't know if we and the reasons that led to women being positively discriminated against are we going to be able to remove those reasons in those 20 years? If we were really housework, if we were really carrying women as a burden, not just household jobs, but performing a whole series of important social functions, out of caring for the elderly, powerless. In our homes, only about 8,000 or 9,000 older, homes for old people, 8 or 9,000 old people. All the others in the houses are taken care of by women. If we look at all the possible costs that will be incurred the moment Grandma's service disappears, if women work until 65 years old, they won't be able to keep their grandchildren safe. So if we were to take all of these elements into account or if we were to start changing this whole social situation right now, then we could say okay, let's do it equally. But we haven't seen anything like it since our last debate so far, nothing has happened. It's just that the deadline just went up. Whether Croatia will succeed in these 20 years in doing what has been done in some societies, we will also have to change a lot of things in mentality. You know, we have to raise our sons a little differently than they've raised before. There's a lot we have to do. It's a long-term job, and it has its own cultural background. So we can't accept that without a serious debate going into this equality no matter what the Constitutional Court and this or that say, it's a matter in which we decide as citizens of this country. So much for that, I think colleagues and colleagues will do more. Another thing that's unacceptable. A fellow Hrelja has been exhausting with a whole series of examples showing that something that makes itself a substantial part of the pension system is not actually being respected. I don't just mean insurance, the pension system is wider than the concept of pension insurance. He rests on two basic principles, two principles. One principle of solidarity. This principle of solidarity in our pension system is seen in that we have a minimum pension institute, that we have a limited pension institute. You can't get a pension as much as you've been paying. That's why the solidarity system and those who have the lowest pensions actually less than what they've earned get more because that's how the solidarity system predicted it. And the first pension pillar rests well on the solidarity system and respecting the fact that there are people who for some reason have not accumulated enough internships or have become ill and are going into disability pensions etc., etc. It's a good idea and what we keep insisting on being introduced to, so-called. Social pension, state pension, national pension, as we will call it for those of our fellow citizens who do not have 15 years of minimum employment, may have 14 or 11, to introduce 7 years on this insistence simply because the pension system has also been fiscalised, which is actually a good part of these pension incomes being allocated from the budget. Although it would actually be social aid, it would be granted to people over 65 years of age and in this way we would give minimal social security, as I would say, because it would have to be small pensions, less than that to say because they are actually social measures. What's really wrong here, except for the principle of solidarity. My colleagues and colleagues, there is also a principle of mutuality in the pension system, and this principle says that it is not fair and it is not fair to extort because... all those no matter how long they worked, how long they paid and how much money in the pension system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not an honest story and it has nothing to do with solidarity. In other words, if someone has worked for 40 years, let's take men and women, there's no reason to penalize it, and as your proposal here says, if someone did, say, 25 or 20 years to reward it. Let's take a woman 45 years, until 45th, as my little neighbor would say, why don't you put the system into retirement while you're young, and then let the old ones do it after the brothers? So by 45, a woman decides not to work or a man, decides not to work. At the age of 15, he is eligible for retirement and at 65 he is 20 years old, gets from Mr. Rogman and Rismond 0.15% each month. On the other hand, the one who worked, let's say, take the woman who started working when she was 18, she'll be 40, if she hasn't had a break at 40 years old. You're going to deny it on a regular basis every month for 0.15%, you're going to take her pension. People, where's the honesty? I think it's some kind of elemental logic that requires that it shouldn't be done. We cannot accept these changes for the simple reason that clearly this second principle of the pension system is not respected and there is a fundamental difference between us, a conceptual difference. This conceptual difference is that you only take up, pension insurance is insurance for age, sickness and death, but you do not respect this other fact, this second principle that years and amounts of money paid to people give certain rights and must, they are a source of security. Your principle rewards those who work above 65. You would actually, your goal is to make people work as old as possible, and our goal is to keep people working as long as possible. Our goal is for people to work 40 years, so let them do 45, reward them, and don't reward them to work over 65 years. That's not the point. Well, we can't compete among generations, so the goal is for young people to work for us. We have been at peace in this country for 50 years, never under 12%, never in Croatia, never in socialism. We deal with it. It's an abnormal condition. It's not a normal condition. We need to think about how to hire young people, not how to keep people over 65 in the world of work. Well, that's not the point. But to work up to 65 actually to work 40 years is what needs to be stimulated. It's a completely different principle. There's another detail about your stimulation over 65 years. I don't know if you're a civil servant or a state official. State officials are being discriminated against. They have to at 65 years of law enforcement. Only if they have a very dear boss who's going to stretch them a little bit. Then he can. I'd be sorry if you retired just because you're a civil servant or a public official, I don't know what your status is now if you're even. So it's that this whole concept is not good for workers, it's not good, it's unfair. Third, what you want to achieve essentially is not achieved. You yourself said in the short term next year the cost of growth. And in a year behind that, the cost goes up. And you heard in 2013 that we could start falling. But you're not going to do it because penalizing is not a good measure, and so we're going with the amendment to end the pensionization of all those who have 40 years of standing and more and on the contrary to end this bonus, a bonus for these 65 years older but to introduce a bonus of 0.15 per month for anyone who's been working for more than 40 years. If you'd gone like that, believe that the effects would have been seen very quickly in a reduced pressure on early retirement and how much on this side of our side, when I'm telling our people on the retirement side to ease that pressure. I'm not telling you that. We reduced the number of pensioners from 2000 to 2003 from 70,000 to an average of 15 to 20,000 a year in those four years. We know how to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60211	Thank you very much. We first have two applications for correction of the quote. Dear colleague Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60212	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vidovic, said that this first text was only a bait that was extremely unacceptable, so now there is something more acceptable going on. And the proof that this text of the law is acceptable to the SDP is that they are in principle not against this law because they are going by amendment. They'd just like to postpone the application of this law for next year, but they're about against the law as far as I can see they have nothing, so it's simply an incorrect claim that it was the text bait. And as for these concerns about women and what's said here that women should still have some perks. The Constitutional Court was clear there. I can't accept it, I can agree with my colleague Vidovic and anyone who thinks that women would make them at 50 years old that in principle they could retire, because I all agree with what he said. But unfortunately, the Constitutional Court was clear there. He did not foresee any positive discrimination in his decision but said that the years of life of men and women must be equaled. So there is no difference there, no matter how many they say to me and I cannot accept any fact of what counterpart Vidovic said in principle, that citizens will, regardless of what the Constitutional Court says that citizens will decide. Well, the Constitutional Court should respect the institution only if it is another concept of justice and justice in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60213	Thank you. A fellow representative, Stjepan Milinković. Here you go, Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Vidovic said this is about a play that is also incorrect. This is an incorrect absolute quote, so dear colleague whether the creation of a framework and a sustainable pension system is one performance. It's a responsible job for both the system itself and the generations behind us. By the way, it's nice to hear from you guys standing up for women's rights. But I want to remind you, in the phonogram it can be checked that during the time you were Minister of Social Care it is very clear that the equalization of a good woman and men will be very clear. And it's nice of you to hear that you're in favour of positive discrimination against women. And I do, of course, but it doesn't give you the right to be discriminatory about some Azerbaijani people there. And the Azerbaijani are people who have their rights both to pensions and to all other rights. That's incorrect and irresponsible to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60215	Thank you. So it's fixed and fixed. In 13 and 11 timed out for further application for individual debate. Before we proceed with the individual debate, the Secretary of State came forward on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60216	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs and MPs, I must refer to this even though it has already been mentioned and argued by the distinguished representative Boris Kunst on the issue of the Constitutional Court and the possibility of what to do according to the Constitutional Court's decision. So we can't and we can't accept arguments no matter what the Constitutional Court says. We have already repeatedly discussed the first reading, on committees we have heard thinking that regardless of the decision of the Constitutional Court we can do or try to do otherwise. I'm telling you, we can't possibly do this. We don't have one here. The Constitutional Court did not give any conditional decision in the sense that other conditions had to be previously created, that other conditions would be created before, that something else had to be changed. The Constitutional Court repeals this provision and the Constitutional Court estimates that there is no constitutionally acceptable reason why the Constitutional Court could assess by a unanimous system a different legal provision of age for the right to an age or early retirement, etc. I mean the question of what should be done by the executive authority when he has a decision of the Constitutional Court. Change the law as the Constitutional Court says or find some opportunities to play it. I'd say he has to go with the bill and there's no talking about it for me. And I'd add one more thing. When changing the laws and arguments in early retirement and increasing the reduction of the reduction factors, I must say, although it is not my role and my job to make the arguments, of course, we all know it well depends very often and most often on the position in power. So, is anyone in position or is he in opposition? So, we've heard very strong performances about that early, increase in decreases temporarily here is wrong, and that the deadline that needs to be passed is wrong. I have to say that during the time the SDP was in power that a law had been passed which, from 0.30, increased early retirement to 0.34 without any 40-year retirement benefits, that the law was passed on December 10th, which took effect already on December 18th, so within 8 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60217	Thank you. We've got a few credentials filed. First of all, dear colleague Slavko Linic. Here's my colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60218	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a State Secretary who says that we cannot change the Constitutional Court's decision on a regular basis, and make laws contrary to the Constitutional Court's decisions. The answer is very simple, the government could propose constitutional changes and establish positive discrimination for women, because the historical conditions of work and the lives of women have not changed. It is neither a play, nor an insult, nor an unacceptable behavior in relation to the Constitutional Court's decision. Therefore, there are solutions, but this government does not want to propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60219	Thank you very much, colleague Linic. Obviously, we're going to agree on a lot of things, because what you've just said on a regular basis, because we see some of them announcing some other ways, I don't think that would be good. But there's still a colleague named Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60220	I am correcting the State Secretary's incorrect claim that the Constitutional Court has strictly defined the circumstances and rules of the game. The Constitutional Court did not prohibit the exemption of certain activities and occupations from this age of retirement, and that is what European practice says. Yesterday I spoke to the Ambassador of the Republic of France who has a problem with that. We therefore need to respect the psychophysical differences between men and women in relation to certain jobs. The opposition's other arguments stand, but we, Mr. Secretary of State, expect you to be a better secretary of state than Mr. Vidovic was minister. And that is what the entire Croatian public expects of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60221	Thank you. Dear colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60222	Wrongly says Mr. Secretary of State after the Constitutional Court's decision to equalize, that is, demand equalising men and women to retire and says the Secretary of State that we could rather than amend such a law, change the law, we couldn't play it. Well, no one's asking you to play law, but that decision has been since 2008, which you've been doing and how many laws you've passed to balance men and women's starting positions. In Western Europe, ministers go on maternity leave, and here a woman can barely head out alive, because it is not, unfortunately, especially in recent times a rare case has just attacked women, with fatal outcomes. When we proposed just maternity leave and for men, it was terrible for you, and this is what a hairdresser should do, a waitress working up to 65, and it started out of 17, it's perfectly normal for you, because you're sitting in comfortable chairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60223	Thank you. You didn't fix your colleague. Dear colleague Željka Antunović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60224	Thank you very much. I, too, want to correct the same incorrect assumption that my colleagues were correcting, which refers to the claim that the Government could do nothing but propose this law and thus implement it and act according to the Constitutional Court's decision. The issue of constitutional equality which the Constitutional Court interpreted in its own way and regarding the provision in the Law on Pension Rights said that conditions should apply equally to women and men, it is forgotten that the Government, except in this area, has powers and obligations to equalise women and men's rights and in all other areas, and could have just done so by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And there were other proposals that said that concrete and short-term could be done, but in continuity, the Government is obliged to facilitate the position of women and thus make them equal in the fields of education, health, care and everything that provides partnership in parenting and professional life.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60225	Thank you. Next is the debate, dear colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course, I think we can all actually agree on one effort and say that it would be really quite right for women and men working under similar or same conditions to have similar or same pension rights. But when it comes to the work of women and men, it is not the same and it is not the same. And I can't agree with the finding and the almost cry of the secretary of state that what else could have been left to the government but to propose exactly the law it proposed. I'd say it took a little bit more to warm up the chair, so try harder, so maybe give some different suggestions. In fact, the fundamental wrong starting point of this bill is that, in fact, in relation to women, he potentiates discrimination. It is true that it is based on the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2007, that decision of the Constitutional Court in some ideal universe that I would say so, I guess, because we are all equal before the law, but in no case corresponds to the Croatian reality, and unfortunately that is the truth, reality and reality in which women are still in a very unequal and discriminatory position, and in particular, I will stress again, the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality are completely disregarded, so here I am now proposing from this Parliament's pay phone to the Constitutional Court to abolish the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality which speak of positive measures of discrimination. That's what I'm proposing, because it's in the Law on Gender Equality. So let it abolish and declare the unconstitutional and provisions of the Law on the financing of political parties, in which 10% more funds, colleagues and colleagues, etc., etc., are obtained for the sub-represented sex. From a number of indicators, above all from the spheres of work and employment, but also from all other social spheres, it is clear that women in Croatia are in an unequal position and that special measures are necessary to at least try to improve their position. Well, that's why we've passed such laws as the Law on Gender Equality, so that's why, colleagues and colleagues, we're almost unanimously here if I'm not wrong, all of us who have been present with over 100 votes have passed a Law on Gender Equality, in which, among other things, we've cited the importance of so-called gender equality. positive measures. But if that is the case, the Constitutional Court has failed to see why I do not know why the Government, or the Ministry of Economy has not called in this law on these provisions and passed an article of the law that will say that the application will be delayed until other conditions are obtained when women and men will have an equal position on the labour market. I believe that the current provision on retirement for women has fallen under such a special measure because it respected the indisputable fact that women are doing a double job. The one formal as employees and, of course, the one who has no salary, which is understood, of course, and who takes away the rest of their workday, some of the little bad ones would say the rest of their lives. The reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision, which called for the European Court of Human Rights, states that it is difficult and impossible to determine precisely some moment when injustice to men because of the different retirement ages has surpassed the need to correct the woman's unfavourable position. I find this position extremely important for our situation which, in view of everything, and especially given the unfavourable position of women on the labour market cannot be considered a favourable moment for equating an old and early age provision in the right to obtain a pension, and whether this is the case in such a gradual period now following a new 20-year proposal. I will again, as I asked last time, why not, given the irrefutable poorer position of women, still allow a gradual period, but not this retirement and first this pension but first of all, what is needed to equalise women's positions, given many relevant factors such as work, such as employment, such as bribery, such as poverty, such as political sub-representation, such as the inequality of colleagues and colleagues in decision-making. Why don't we agree on that and say, let's now prepare such legislative proposals and provisions that, in these areas too, gradually over the next 10, 20 or 30 years will lead to equal conditions when it comes to the labour market. Only then, my dear colleagues and colleagues can we talk about equating retirement when it comes to the years of life. In other words, this means why we should not all work together to enforce the laws we ourselves have passed. In this case, the Law on Gender Equality, and in the proposal to amend the law, I can't be convinced that it couldn't be passed, predicting a delay in enforcement against women like that. Made Austria, to be a little closer to some countries that are here in our environment. In other words, when this law is prepared and, as I say, an integrated provision is prescribed, i.e. the Constitutional Court's decision has been ignored by the full social reality in Croatia, not to say that no relevant analysis has been presented. It would be logical to have some sort of analysis of the position of a woman in the labour and employment market that would then justify the adoption of such proposals and would primarily give projections to both women and men. I will now publicly thank a woman without a name, but who wrote that in middle age she was a family-employed woman and who made an effort unlike our government to do her job. And she did an excellent analysis, many of us got that email with a simple name – Talk figures, which she did an analysis of the position of women and men in Croatia. I believe even that you might have gotten it. Well, then I'm just gonna, uh, get a little piece of it out. In fact, she herself says that the hasty amendments to the pension law proposed by the Ministry of Economy do not worry that the unifying of the legal age for the retirement of women and men would only be justified if it can be proven that women and men are truly in equal constitutional working, family and sociological circumstances. Women in Croatia make up 53% of the population, 50.4% are current users of old age pensions. It accounts for 46% of all employees, but it only uses 45% of the amount of paid old-age pensions, using only 29% of the total expenditure for all paid old-age and disability pensions. They have average salaries that account for 89% of men's average salaries, but women's average pensions are 77% of men's average pensions. They have an average of 540 kuna less retirement and an average of 356 kuna early retirement and receive an annual total of 3.3 billion kuna less money for old, early and disabled pensions than men. From year to year, the gap between women and men's average pensions has increased by 33%, and today the average age pension of women is 20% lower than the average age pension of men. Do you know that 24% more money is spent on men's early retirements per year than on women's early retirements? That for 13 categories so-called. The benefits of pensions are 7.7 times more money per year than for all early pensions of women, and that for 180 thousand users of privileged pensions, 93% of whom are paid annually by as many as 25% of the total amount of all pensions, whereas for all early pensions, women are allocated only 3.3% of the total total of all pensions. This is just one piece of that analysis and it shows, I will say it this way, equality in the way of HDZ, equality in the way of government, and I dare say equality in the way of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60227	We've got two replications, first of all distinguished colleague Josip Leko. Here you go, colleague Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60228	Comrade Sobol. It is my opinion that the proposed Law is not based entirely on the Constitutional Court's decision. Here's why. IF the Constitutional Court wanted the position of retirement of a woman and a man to be resolved on a formal basis only, so by equating the norm, the legal norm, then the court would not leave the deadline until it had to be done. So, the Constitutional Court has ordered you, as a society, as a legislative authority, to implement a strategy that was very well argued by fellow Sobol, to equalise essentially the position and work of women in society and only then, at a formal level, to equalise. With quasi reasoning, the Government's proposal responds to the Constitutional Court's decision as if it were a formal imbalance, the fundamental inequality in Croatian society and women are indeed what Sobol argued, unfortunately, unequal when it comes to both salaries and jobs, and about social progress, so they are in an unequal position and when they should retire, and that is what the legislator had to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60229	Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60230	Dear fellow Sobol, you mentioned the bribery of women on the labour market. The best evidence of women's underpayment on the labour market is pension rights, so paying past work, that means they have had less salaries, less contributions and the result is less pensions. Here, I'll share with you the 2009 analysis by structure, in retirement, women have a 27% lower pension, and only 12% less internships. In the early retirement category, women again have 27% lower pensions and only 13% less internships. The worst situation is in disability pensions where women have 22% lower pensions and only 8% less internships. So, these indicators and thanks to the Croatian Institute for Pensions who has improved its statistics, we can monitor it today, it is very good, these are solid crown evidence of women's underpayment on the labour market and it just becomes more and more unsustainable from day to day.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60231	Thank you. Replication response, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60232	Here I thank you for the additional comments and arguments made by my colleague, Leko and my colleague, Hrelja. The data you are talking about is true only further warning of the phenomena that I would say already rooted in Croatian society today. I'm more surprised by the fact that no one has made an effort in the Ministry of Economy, really no one has tried, in the long run since 2007, now in 2010, we've been three full years to better analyze this Constitutional Court decision and the way this issue would be solved. I can't believe nobody did that. If, however, they did make these analyses and did not deliver them to us and yet came out after such a bill, there is nothing else I can say but consider the Law to be hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60233	Thank you. Now we're gonna take a break, we're going to continue the individual debate at 3:00, the first is for the distinguished colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60234	We're continuing the session. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Mr. Principal, Mr. Rismondo, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my individual presentation, I would like to draw attention to one contradiction in the same secretary of state at the first address in this assembly. Mr. Secretary of State said it's good that people are aware that the law will change and that it's good to exercise their right because it's a personal right and I agree. But then I do not agree with his statement that it is necessary to pass this law as soon as possible. I understand, of course, that Mr Tomljanovic's amendment to enter into force on 1 November 2010. So, one thing with the other doesn't go at all. Of course, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will also give the subject of the amendment that this law enters into force on 1 January 2011 for a clear reason that all users who gain one right in one calendar year will be placed in the same legal position and that is the reason for our amendment and we think that this would be very, very correct and this would in some way be better realised and that your intention which you have stated that the beneficiaries of pension rights have the right to be informed in time that the laws will change and have the right to exercise their right if they already have or have criteria for achieving, if they have met the criteria for achieving that right. The second thing I would look back at in my presentation is that something that is in itself incomprehensible and at this point attacks something that we are, which I am extremely proud of. I am proud of the compromise that the Croatian Party of Retired with the Government reached in July 2007 when the pension was reduced from, that coefficient reduced from 0.34 to 0.15 and I will always advocate that this was a good solution, appropriate to our situation, much more appropriate than what is proposed. I just want to get to know you that the government explained in July 2007 that the penalization cut from 20.4 to a total of 9% in nine years. It says the adoption and application of the proposed law will significantly improve the material and social security of beneficiaries of early and disabled pensions, and in particular the users of the lowest pensions that have been made since 1 January 1999 under the Pension Insurance Act and which will continue to be made subject to that law. This results in a constitutional provision on the Republic of Croatia as a social state in Article 1(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Does this mean today that we are stepping away from this member of the Constitution, whether we have strayed from the provisions on the Republic of Croatia as a social state, because this certainly does not mean for the present for the future pensioners a much greater life sentence than it is now. So I don't know what he's thinking. It was the same government, same government. The fact that the Prime Minister was someone else is another question. But it was the same government, because this government has continuity in its second term. Therefore, I do not have enough arguments other than the arguments I respect but is not enough about the financial sustainability of the system but it is not enough. We can't do new injustices because of financial sustainability, we can't, inadmissible. So I don't have enough arguments to find a reasonable reason to change this. Third thing, I'll read to you the opinion of a lady who has spent her entire life practicing pension law, a professor at Mrs. Vera Jelcic's Law School and her opinion on the Constitutional Court's decision. I quote: "On the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision number, etc. It is proposed to equalise the conditions of years of life for the right to age and early retirement of women with men, i.e. raising age and women to 65 and 60 for early retirement." No matter how much we agree with Agatha Racan, who has given a separate opinion on the court's decision, it is only possible to discuss the implementation modes. There are so-called. Mostly women's jobs such as the job of middle and higher medical staff, work in weaving shops, in confectionery, in education and education, especially preschool and similar work where women can hardly wait to work 60 years of their lives, let alone 65. Surely there are jobs that are mostly male and that can be difficult for a man to work for 65 years, for example, on road construction, in freezers, slaughterhouses and the like. As a result, we believe that, on the basis of research by a polyvalent team of professionals involved in the medical work, we should determine according to the professions and jobs to which years of life the worker has a working capacity and change not only the content of the law but also the name of the current Insurance Statutory Act, which counts with an increased duration and determines without increasing the insurance rate only to reduce the age as conditions for an age and early retirement, up to those years with the possibility of differentiation to which jobs, based on study, workers can have a working capacity to carry out these jobs. If we do not do so, we will not reduce the spending of the pension system, but will increase them for the cost of skill and wages of new witches in the process of exercising disability insurance rights. Therefore, we will certainly increase the unbearablely high level of disability pensions in Croatia because people will not be able to work. So, and not for no reason, this is usually my job and my profession, I have established in shipbuilding jobs with special working conditions, I know what criteria are set and what jobs women cannot work on during pregnancy, when they cannot work in other periods, which jobs are contraindicated and which are restrictions given the difference in the physical structure of men and women themselves. So we can't subdue to equality something that's different, clearly different, and there's nothing to prove, it's just like that, and it's not going to change any new approach. In this regard, we, the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired, gave one proposal to conclude to the Croatian Assembly, which would oblige the Governments of the Republic of Croatia, and, for example, on the French pension system, to establish within 6 months the professions and activities on which women will be excluded from this criterion due to the inability to experience work on these jobs. So we've given enough, we've suggested enough reason for something to be arranged here. At the will of the legislator whether he will arrange it through the job of an internship, of a well-favoured, let me say briefly a law that regulates an unfettered job or otherwise. So that legislator can choose, we don't prejudge solutions, we're talking about a problem that needs to be solved because it's very evident that even the Constitutional Court has not valorised these differences enough to, but has not ordered that it can't be respected and regulated differently. So we don't have the Constitutional Court's ruling that we can't do this better and regulate it better. For now, thank you, and then I will finally explain the other amendments in the closing statement on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60236	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60237	Comrade Hrelj, you have quoted one of the expert opinions that warns that there are jobs that women simply cannot do until the age of 65. I would have joined you in that warning, but apparently no one listens to it with two evidences that are not Croatian. In Slovenia, during the debate on pension reform, two things are extremely important, which are led by large debates, those and those who started working before 18 years of age, and in France they are subject to special discussions and exceptions from such formulation and practice. What about women in Croatia who started working before the age of 18? Apply these provisions of the law to them. No one will hear that in Europe too, employees of the European Union before 18 years of age are exempt from such a model, and determine the category of specific difficult jobs for both men and women to whom these provisions do not apply. But why is this not possible in Croatia? Why is the Constitutional Court's decision interpreted by the Government as having to do this? You know where the secret is? To the judges and judges of the Constitutional Court this law does not apply, they have special regulations for obtaining the right to retire. This law does not apply to members of the government. They get a pension under a special law. Even on parliamentary representatives, we do not apply this law and we lightly judge, we propose, to declare laws that go in a more unfavourable direction for ordinary mortals. If these regulations were to apply to the judges of the Constitutional Court, members and members of the Government, and parliamentary deputies, we would certainly listen to these warnings of two categories that have been excluded from this system throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60238	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go. What? ... A is, is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You raised your hand, but fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60239	... Dear colleague Lesar, I thank you for the opportunity you gave me and for the addition of this presentation, and I must tell you what I said, and Mr Popovic was present on a round table, which was moderated by Mr Mirko Hempel, an acquaintance of the German pension system, and where I have established and stand behind this assertion that we are creating and generating new inequalities in the Croatian pension system. [[Specially enabled.]] It's about what it's about. One Germany recognises the military deadline in the insurance internship, one Germany recognises the university in the insurance internship, just to achieve an element highly valued in the pension system, which is the equality of insurance and pensioners. In order for everyone to be placed in the same jobs for the start of work, or for retirement. That's why the German model has a limit and whoever turns 40 now, whether 40 or 41 years old, don't chase me for a word, after which the insurance company can go into full retirement regardless of the years of life. ... 41, so thank you for the correction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60240	Thank you. And Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60241	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with his associates. In light of the problem of pension reform, almost all European countries are facing it, some started this 10 years ago, as Croatia also began pension reform there at the end of the 1990s by passing a new Mirovina law. The interventions that were in those 10 years in the Peace Law itself actually bring one uncertainty to people who retire in a certain period of time. In fact, the condition of all pension reforms or the consequences is that the population lives longer, the population in all European countries is growing older, this relationship between active employees and insurance and pensioners and the length of time for the use of pensions actually brings these negative financial effects and that is why almost all European countries are going into retirement reform. However, the way we implement the pension reform actually generates new problems, so in terms of funding, in terms of the amount of pensions, in terms of this relationship between employees and pensioners. In fact, it's not just the transition from this system of generation solidarity where pensions that don't meet the basic needs of life that's going to be a far bigger problem when we meet these people who're going to retire by so-called. The second pension pillar is because if these pensions are based only on these payments, they will be even more miserable than those of generational solidarity. In fact, by introducing a 5% rate on that personal pension account and which has been paid now for almost 10 years, it will actually have an important impact on the pension of those people who are going to retire after that so-called. The second pension post. So we didn't do anything to increase this separation rate to a personal account. It was already said here that when we discussed the first reading of the proposal for certain provisions of amendments to the pension law, we already knew in advance that it would not look like that by accepting that the law goes into 2 readings. Therefore, it is said that the basic reason for going to these amendments to the Constitutional Court's decisions on the need for equalisation or obligation to equalise the years of life of men and women when going to retirement. The truth is that the decision was taken almost 2 years ago, that in those 2 years, little, at least, as far as the public is concerned, they discussed how to solve this problem and then, suddenly, in the 7th month, a proposal was adopted by the government and proposed that the Parliament bring it by emergency procedure. It actually caused the stampede request to go to early retirement. What's the damage? At this point, this cannot be calculated, but it is certain that this will significantly increase the number of retirement leaves in 2010 also compared to the year 2009 which is equally unfavourable. According to the report we will discuss here in Parliament for a while, it is said that in 2009, there was an increase in the number of retirement leaves by 4.75% compared to 2008, and in that year we had a reduction of 4.6% of the insurance companies compared to 2008. Let us look at what these are actually worrying relationships. There's less insurance, more and more pensioners. When you're looking at how the funds are being raised, then it's to pay off pensions somewhere we've now stopped at a figure of nearly 35 billion kuna as long as it takes to secure pension payments. At the same time, we pick up about 56% of our contributions. A difference of 15 billion kuna should be found in the state budget. The truth one part should be singled out from the state budget that is the part relating to pensions under more favourable conditions and must be secured from tax revenues. However, the question arises: are we watching enough to collect not only taxes but also these social contributions, both pension and health care? According to some data in the middle of last year, the IRS had about 11 billion kuna unaccounted for. On the other hand, when situations like this arise recently with Kamenski, we get the information that for 2 years, the employer did not pay taxes and contributions to the employees, so he paid only net wages, and that he paid no salary to the employees at all for 5 months. What was the IRS doing during that period? But did the people at the pension institution actually wonder what it is that one company doesn't pay 2 years' pension contribution? If we remember that during the privatisation of pension funds, one third or 30% of the unsold shares were to be entered and that pension insurance was to be discussed with a large portfolio that had been acquired through privatisation, and that we now see that it governs everything somewhere around 3 billion kuna. What happened in the meantime? Where did those huge funds end up? How much did they contribute to the liquidity of the pension system, how much could they have affected the increase in pensions and the reduction in these allocations from the budget where about 15 billion kunas must now be allocated annually? At the same time, nothing seems to be that by further taxing those who do not pay any taxes at all, so that is part of the property tax, the other part is the tax on capital gains, the pressure on the budget, and that it is, in fact, aimed at health and pension insurance, i.e. to reduce the health contribution in favour of the pension contribution. And what do we have now with these changes? So, I said we were discussing a bill of amendments, and at that point we knew that he was going to be different and what do we have now? After a large number of people have applied for early retirement, we still give certain improvements. But what is the problem with these changes? The problem is that we don't stimulate people to work longer and get as long a retirement internship as we can than we think they should work to a deep age. I don't think that's a good suggestion, what the SDP club proposes through the amendments would actually stimulate a man to work at least until 40 years, to achieve at least 40 years of retirement, and if he works longer than that, and under these conditions he'll have to work up to 65 years one good part of people will work more than 40 years. We should keep in mind that we still have the largest number of people employed after high school. In other words, they will have almost 45 years of employment when they retire at 65. So, we should change this logic to do as little as possible and that everything that's older we're going to retire. I think that such a proposal would also bring benefits to the pension fund, but also to economic development, because as we now say every law is for the purpose of economic recovery, therefore, without any calculation, without any analysis is actually a dead letter on paper and I think we should consider these amendments and accept them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60242	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60243	Dear Mrs. Zgrebec, of course, I agree with you in part that there are reserves in the collection of contributions and it would probably be necessary here a full-day debate on which, or where it would be said, how many contributions are not collected, how forgiven and how lost it is due to non-application in bankruptcy proceedings and other circumstances. What I want you to also look back at your exposure, you said that panic was created in August related to early retirement. However, I remind you that Mr Schucker, the finance minister and Deputy Prime Minister, signed an agreement with the World Bank at the beginning of the year, was the government's plan to adopt and enter into force as of 1 January 2011, which is now deviating, and the prime minister claimed in August that someone must have the courage to take unpopular moves. Okay, that takes real courage, but no one in Croatia has the right to make harmful moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60244	Replication response, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60245	I agree with you, the data from the Mirovnica Institute say that the pension drain between 2000 and 2004 was lower than the transitional period and the next period, precisely because it was the time when pension reform was carried out. So the Law was passed in 1999 and in 2000. In 2001, he went into service. Look what happened later. He says the last 5 years have increased the inflow of new pensioners because of the economic crisis and unemployment, and is the most pronounced in the second half of 2009. The report continues to say that 56,000 people retired in 2009. This year it will be over 60 grand just thanks to the law, the bill that was the way it was and it was known in advance that it would change.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60246	Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think we'll all agree that this bill has awakened a tremendous amount of interest and that all of you as well as I have received a lot of calls from both our citizens and our employers. In fact, citizens are also confused about how to make a decision, so we say this is a fateful law. Go to early retirement by November 1st and get a discount of 9% or fear that they will be fined 20.4% less. We also have data that due to the tightening of conditions in the first run, about 10,000 people have already gone into early retirement. It was early retirement that led to Croats being among the lowest age limits in Europe at 59.9 years. Only every fifth Croat did a full-time job. This proposal has already caused damage because it has certainly led to many going into early retirement, resulting in a blow to the budget that has occurred and is happening, and how relieved the question remains. Let us remember more information that 1.28 employees are coming to one of the pensioners. As my colleagues and I will look back on the Constitutional Court's decision to abolish the provisions and say that they are discriminatory, not to repeat what, while on paper this proposal acts as if it promotes gender equality, I believe that implementation will achieve an even greater opposite effect of women's inequality. The repealed provisions do not take into account the difficult situation of women on the labour market and in society in general, discrimination on the labour market is precisely the best indicator of social discrimination. All those figures that were presented I won't repeat them said Mrs. Sobol and Mr. Hrelja, so the differences exist in the types of jobs that men do, they are employed in a wide field of jobs, they take up most of the leading positions, women carry out a narrow circle of less paid jobs, etc. In addition, 62% of respondents had been asked a question about marital status and number of children, about 38% had to answer the potential employer if he intended to give birth, these are actually the subjects that were relevant to employment. So we see in this too that there is a difference between men and women. Women are still forced to deal with their work obligations, care for their households, and their partners are not helping them enough, of course it is part of our culture. These data show that we have not achieved a sufficient degree of gender equality in society as a whole, so that we can implement so-called. the equality on paper, and that it is still a positive and justified positive discrimination against women, which would at least help them to comply with their work obligations with private ones. According to this proposal, not only will women have to work 5 years longer to obtain the right to retirement, but they will be punished if they decide on early retirement in the 60th year, which is currently the limit for retirement. It is expected that most women will be forced to go to early retirement, since the situation in the labour market will not change significantly in their favour, their maternal and household obligations will remain the same. Discrimination and bribery remain the same, and women who wish to achieve the full amount of pension will have to work for 5 years longer. I wonder where women could get such an internship, perhaps in the textile industries that are ruined. As if that is not enough punishment, the reduction of the starting factor for determining the retirement rate is increasing to 0.34%. And it is precisely the starting factor that depends on the level of retirement, and the level of early retirement will drop dramatically with this measure. I ask myself, as well as my predecessors, which led the proposings to draw up this proposal, whether they did any previous research on the impact of this reform on the sensitive issue of equality between women and others. I believe that they should have done so before proposing such laws that would have a drastic impact on the position of a woman in a society that is so hard to hire. Another, the government will surely have on its conscience all those workers and workers who are afraid of worsening the conditions of October 1st who have submitted their early retirement applications by September 30th and who will not be able to change their minds because they cannot return to work. In fact, with a request for temporary retirement, a certificate of termination of employment had to be attached. Since this is considered to be a new utopia of the pension system, I cannot accept such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60248	Thank you. Two replicas, first Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60249	Dear colleague Bonačić, you mentioned at the beginning of your public exposure of fear of greater punishment. And I can confirm that this fear of greater punishment is a great motivator to go to early retirement. And you know what happens next? After that, there is stress that seriously disrupts the psycho-physical health of citizens, because everything in life needs to be prepared from all aspects and planned as well as retirement. Retirement really takes all kinds of preparation, it can't be a break. And this constant shock therapy has a serious impact on the psycho-physical health of Croatian citizens, all of which have great damage except for the possible pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60250	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60251	Thank you very much, colleague Hrelja. Well, that's what I said, and this is a fateful law that, of course, touches all of us. I said it was another utopia of the pension system, and now you've confirmed that it's actually harmful to health and that's why it's dangerous and of course we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60252	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60253	Thank you very much. I listened to you, and I don't understand why you were so heartily against this equalization of age for men and women when, I don't know if you were then in the SDP when the SDP-led coalition in 2003 brought a strategy for the development of the pension system. Here I'm just going to quote you from that strategy something, says "As the age of men will rise to 65 years of life in 2008 and for women to 60 years of life..." and now listen carefully "...you should increase women to 65 years of life from 2009 to 2018. If the increase in life duration and the unfavourable ratios between the number of active insurance and pensioners, this requirement after 2018 could increase the retirement age for both sexes to more than 65 years, e.g. 67 or 68 years of life." So what you were silent about at the time in your party when it practically brought such a strategy to the government... you're now heartwarmingly talking about how it's utopia, how it's wrong. And in 2003, you suggested that women work up to 67 years, not 65 and equalize the age of men and women. So tell you what hypocrisy it is, let's face it together. And this information that 50 grand has gone to early retirement right now, so that's an incorrect piece of information. You have the information, check it out at the Peace Department. In 2009, you left 12 thousand and 15 people early, with a meaning of d 30.9.2010. 13 thousand 873 people, then how can it be 50 grand? It can't possibly be. So 13,000 873 people means let's go somewhere by the end of the year 18 thousand, but that's not 50 grand at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60254	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60255	I'm sorry, I had 10 grand. Maybe I don't know if we can listen to the video now to see what I said, I said 10 grand. And as for this first part of what you said, you had enough time to correct all irregularities in the pension system. However, your policy has led to a situation like this, colleague Kunst. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60256	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60257	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we look at the reasons for the accession to the Amendment Law and the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, then perhaps this palette of reasons should be extended. It is evident that the problem of maintaining generation solidarity is because the number of pensioners is growing and the number of insurance workers is falling. And that's unequivocal that's the basic reason. We didn't mention anything else here, that besides this problem, our huge problem is insurance voluntarily, another pension column that doesn't guarantee us I would say enough pensions or not provide enough pensions for a normal life for a pensioner. So if we already wanted to talk about that part and that's the problem. What's also a big problem is what my colleague said, it's a payout problem, that we just don't make it, even though we have insurance payments from companies, we don't manage to secure payment, we fail. Also, one of the problems that are more evident is the reduction in the number of employees, which is one of the reasons the insurance goes down. And if we had seriously entered the depth and analysis of these causes, then perhaps we would have suggested a better solution only through new changes and additions. I would try to say first of all that basic, a number of insurance companies may be the result of war and fatigue, dissatisfaction, burdens in essence by adapting to market conditions of business, relation to employers, I would say the discrepancies between politics, employers' associations, trade unions, and that may be one of the reasons for that growth. And apparently the structural changes that go for these workers in retirement as the best solution, so the number of insurance companies is growing from that base. And of course, that's when we get to the first problem, if the number of insurance companies drop what we're going to do with the pension height and maybe there's the biggest problem we haven't seriously considered. The SDP club has tried several times to say we have problems in the pension system, we have insufficient incomes, we have insufficient rates and we have suggested that we understand that in the wages of additional rates of contributions we cannot pass, but are already uncompetitive. But we have suggested that 50% reduction in the health contribution be transferred to the pension system and that we try to solve the problem of low pensions of an increasing number of pensioners through a different pay schedule. Number one, with policy changes in the contribution rate in which it would one part stimulate entrepreneurs not to run away from work, not to fire, not to see in restructuring the only way through employee cuts, and on the other hand to increase these pension contributions. In fact, at the time of 2008, when we first went with this proposal, we suggested that we start by increasing the contribution precisely to that second pension column, to saving workers, and now we see that the increasingly negative effects on the first pension column are on generation solidarity and that they are enormous missing funds. And that we have dealt with serious analyses exactly how to solve the problem and that we have started and opened this question of whether it is one of the solutions and a new rate, a rate that must not increase gross wages, but can replace some other contribution, and that the contribution is then health-funded from the assets because it is the practice of our competitors in Europe. I believe that the solutions to this bill would be different. She'd be different. But we can't take seriously what the basic problems of the pension system are and in fact we won't solve them this way. We are certainly not going to solve them this way, because we were supposed to come to a completely different logic. And we will come to the need to increase the contribution and that on account of the reduction of health contributions, because we cannot solve the fundamental problem. A million 530 thousand employees or insurance companies and over a million 200 thousand pensioners. We can't solve it any different than with an extra rate. And we can use the laws as much as we want to transfer the problem to the insurance companies, make them simply suffer the burden of these discrepancies, but we won't succeed. We have to do something about it. And not to mention the other part that nobody, but nobody has the right to pay a pension contribution, no one. And that's the story where a part of us disagrees because I believe that a Croatian citizen himself pays a pension contribution, that we will have less unpaid than at this time when employers do so. And when these employers have the consent of the Minister, the Minister of Finance, you don't have to pay a pension contribution. When the finance minister instead of holding financial discipline, he creates problems in the pension system. If citizens were to pay their own contribution, believe me, that would be better. That would be better, there would be less unpaid contributions. Therefore, if this is a fundamental problem whether we have set ourselves rightly in solving it, we are not. And then we come to these quite problematic solutions that lead to this controversy between us because we estimate that nothing will change the situation in the system of generational solidarity. It won't change. And it is evident that we will have to go back to the basic problem, the number of employees and the number of pensioners. It is a problem that, without additional contributions and battles for each workplace, we will not be able to resolve in any way. And perhaps I should personally point out that I feel that, apart from having come to the wrong conclusion of the underlying problem, solutions themselves are not good. Detimizing retirement, and regardless of the years of internship, everyone is slowly clear, is not a good solution. Until yesterday, we had a basis for leaving and an internship and years of life, and now if we don't have years of life, we're detimizing going independent of years of internships. And it's obvious that these destimulating percentages weren't supposed to go to full-time years sometimes, so 40 and 35 for women. So there's what we could use because you understand, these destimulating factors are so irrelevant to the mass of income in the pension system and we could solve them with minimal changes in health and pension rates. Also, for the SDP, it is personally unacceptable for me to stimulate, in addition to 300 thousand unemployed, staying at work. And yet we stimulate for what, because we're afraid of too many pensioners. And do we realize that we haven't opened our jobs, that we don't have jobs for young people? Therefore, to stimulate those who have completed 40 and 35 years of training, yes, but to stay retired for over 65 years, regardless of the internship, I don't think that's right. When it comes to discrimination on women, I want to say very clearly, all those who are calling for a strategy, the strategy is used for some purpose, it is important how it is operated and one strategy that we obviously cannot operate on because we have a low number of employees, we have not achieved social income and we are terribly lagging behind people in Europe. Therefore, when we remove all of this, it will not be a problem to achieve this strategy either.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60258	Thank you. Two replicas. One Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60259	Dear fellow Linic, I agree with you that one of the fundamental motivations or the fundamental objective proposed by this Law has set the financial sustainability of the pension system, or more specifically the first pillar of generation solidarity. However, these changes do not even partially address the problem of the financial sustainability of this system because some plus may bring in 3, 4 or 5 years. This is actually just scratching around the surface because it's 10% of the total number of pensioners who wouldn't save the system even if they didn't take a pension to understand each other. Therefore, as the effect of these amendments and the addition of the Law will be more punished in the future, let's say by one penalty measure, but it cannot save the pension system and I am sure that in the next 3 years it will go into early retirement. Only those workers who do not have a choice, whose early retirement is greater than that of the Employment Service, but who can sign in advance that in three years, more than 15,000 will not go away in total, and these are negligible financial effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60260	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60261	I agree with my colleague Hrelja, who is trying to say that even that intention to financially strengthen the Peace Fund, not that it will have no effect in the next three years, far more, it is a social damage. You have to understand employers if they do not have a settled business conditions and will continue to go as layoffs of workers, firing workers will be a good part to make severances, the severances will be growing and larger in companies that can repay it. But that's your social damage again. So to solve it, he's going to pay more severance money and then he's going to get into the pension system anyway, interested in more severance. And among those workers who do not have such employers, we will reduce purchasing power and living standards because it will fall upon their burden. So looking at it from a social level, it's certainly a harmful approach because we're not going to get positive effects for society or the pension fund itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60262	And Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60263	Your colleague Linic mentioned the problem of not paying for pension insurance contributions by employers. How much does the government care about paying these contributions I will prove as follows. By 2008, in the Pension Act, in compulsory contributions, it became the obligation of REGOS, the central insurance register, that in the event of non-payment of pension insurance contributions, REGOS of each insurance undertaking must report within 30 days that the employer has not paid him a pension contribution. When we built it into the Law, it was interpreted and welcomed and supported as a safeguard mechanism for workers to at least from someone when employers already lie and steal them, by the state body being informed of the hearing they did not pay you a contribution. However, what the government did in 2008, it proposed and the majority adopted and deleted that provision from the Law. It was deleted from the Law so that workers wouldn't know that their public employers didn't make a contribution. So now we have a situation in Kamenski where no contributions have been paid in the last two years, and in the last 10 years irregularly about. So what now? Non-payment of contributions to pension insurance of workers is not a criminal offence. REGOS doesn't have to inform anyone, and insurance companies don't even know that the contributions aren't paid, but the state simply says we won't admit it to you even in the insurance internship. Well, then people find out when they file for retirement and tell them the last two years you haven't been paid your contributions. That's why what you warned about is very important. Who in this country is responsible for being able to do business without paying off contributions and why no one asked them. Why isn't there... if I ask the Secretary of State from the Economy says it's not my job, why aren't the finances here?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60264	The answer to the line, Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60265	There is no doubt that the payment of the net salary and the payment of the contributions are a matter that has no negotiation, no one has the authority to postpone payment and payment of salaries and contributions by any of our documents. Therefore, to look kindly at a year of unpaid contributions, this means abuse of positions, and that is the responsibility of all those in the chain to monitor the payment of net wages and contributions. And that's something that for some of us who deal with finance is incomprehensible, none of us can understand how it's possible. But we're looking a little further. We are facing a series of settlement procedures, pre-demand agreements, bankruptcy conditions, and at that moment you will have to negotiate claims for a pension contribution as a bank negotiates claims for unpaid interest. They're completely incomprehensible things. Because if the state doesn't give the initiative, no one's going to fight to get a believer out of a pre-war deal and push him back to market business, that they're going to run the same thing because everyone's going to ask the state to do it, and we don't realize that it's not the budget money, it's not the state's money, it's the pension money. If we look at the other part, it's saving pensioners or current workers, therefore, with this kind of behavior we're led to absurde that we have to negotiate the money of pensioners and the savings of pensioners to save some job through programs I'd say getting out of a crisis of these debtors.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60266	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60267	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act is adopted in the context of the Government's Economic Recovery Programme, and clearly the essence of this Act is to cut the rights or narrow the scope of Croatian citizens' pension rights. Reason, financial consolidation of the pension system. In fact, mandatory pension insurance based on generation solidarity has become unsustainable because the gap between insurance on the one hand and the number of beneficiaries of pensions on the other. For example, at the end of 2008, this relationship was 1.37, while at the end of 2009, it was only 1.30. So, in just one year, it's worsened by more than 5%. In 2009 35 billion kuna was spent to finance all pension rights, generation solidarity, while the planned cost for this same purpose was higher by 200 million kuna in 2010. Therefore, the growing part of the pension funds must be compensated from the budget, as there is no part of the funding collected through the pension contribution. For example, the share of pension insurance costs in the gross domestic product in 2008 was 9.85 to be increased to 10.5% in 2009. But here you should say one thing. It should be said that such a significant increase in the share of pension insurance costs in the gross domestic product is only one small part of the consequence of the fact that the absolute amount of pension insurance costs has been increased. Most of it is due to a nominal reduction in gross domestic product. In fact, we know that in 2009, gross domestic product decreased almost 6% or to be more precise 5.8% and in 2010 this decline continues and is more than 1.7%. Therefore, if this fall of domestic gross product did not occur, so that it remained at the same level as the relative share of pension insurance costs would also remain at the same level, i.e. the cost of pension insurance would be one far more bearable burden and probably want to believe it would not actually have to go into the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act at least not in such drastic changes, that we have growth rather than a fall in gross domestic product. But here we are already coming to the question of the efficiency of government economic measures and the government's responsibilities for the state's economic situation and precisely for the decline of this domestic gross product. With the overall contraction of economic activity that I have been talking about so far, the additional big problem is the low rate of economic activity of Croatian citizens. In fact, out of a hundred working-age residents in Croatia, only 57 make them. For example, in one Denmark, 78 of them. In one recent study, the World Bank said I would be shocked by the claim that the average age of Croatian pensioners is only 50 years and that is certainly a European record, infamous of course. In the same study, the World Bank said Croatia will not move forward unless it increases the share of employees to at least 65%, and that means that it should employ this force of unemployed workers. In fact, these unemployed are one huge reservoir of possible improvement in the ratio between the number of insurance and the number of pensioners. However, in order to raise the employment rate to these required 65%, approximately two hundred thousand new jobs should be opened. The fact is that Croatia has a permanent job deficit, and unfortunately this government is unable to create conditions for growth of the economy and growth of the gross domestic product and instead of opening new jobs it unfortunately closes and the existing. As a result, in the inability to do so, the pro-active government again resorts to something in which it knows best to reduce citizens' rights. She's not ready to cut huge public spending, but pension rights are. And it is unable to increase budget revenues, for example by taxing assets. It's a lot easier to cut pension rights. And finally as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, so as a woman, I must say something about this equalising the conditions for the exercise of the pension insurance rights of women with men. True, according to this final proposal, this equation would be carried out in a somewhat longer transition period and thus slightly lighter intensity than the original idea. And, of course, on the grounds that such equation is required by the Constitutional Court. But the bottom line is the next one. The bottom line is, once again, women get more work, and rights are probably going to be taken care of by the future. Women will therefore be equal to men where to work, but they will still suffer because there is certainly progress very slow throughout the whole series of injustices. It is generally known that women tend to get to work, but they lose it easier and are less paid for the same job than their male colleagues. They do most of the household work, take care of children and unfortunately neglect their advancement at work for all of it, not to mention the feminization of those professions that lose both reputation and social status, not to mention the feminization of poverty. In the current economic crisis, women paid more taxes than men because they were out of work. But we're still moving on. Let's make it harder for them to retire. I ask the question whether, over this period of twenty years, when this equalisation should occur, women's social standing and whether a fairer distribution of family responsibilities will occur. I'll tell you what, I doubt that right now. So I'm going to point it out as a conclusion. Women in Croatia no longer deserve that at the age of five, less employment than men needed for retirement compensates for this discriminatory social status and far greater involvement in the family than male engagements. So, another change that takes place over the back of women. And in my opinion, the highlight of hypocrisy is that this change is happening, such an unfavourable change for women, so it's happening in the government's term whose head is exactly the woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60268	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Well, here's the debate. I've only reported for one actually correcting the incorrect assumption. I gave up later, but I also have to express my satisfaction that the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act is the result of the consent of the social partners. The proposals and suggestions of both social partners and social partners presented at the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament as well as through the debate at the session of the Parliament have also been largely accepted. Thank God this is how we all see the economic recovery measures in Croatia already well implemented, and we must once again emphasise that this is also the case, and these changes and additions stem from Croatia's economic recovery programme, as they allow a sustainable pension insurance system for the longer term, i.e. they will have positive effects on the financial stability of the existing pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. I'm going to say another piece of information that actually here, before I do, I have to say that at this point, responsibility is also on us according to future generations what kind of system we're going to leave for them, because demographics project that in 2050 in Croatia, the proportion of people over 65 in the total population will be 35% and even more. The status that we now have in the pension insurance system is unsustainable, as the number of insurance companies declines rapidly and the number of users increases, so in 2009, the number of insurance companies is 4.6% lower than in the previous 2008 and the number of pensioners is 2.1% higher than in 2008. And of course this is also very important, in fact, an indicator that points us to some procedures. The share of pension insurance costs in the gross social product was 9.8% and 2009. 10.5%. It's a burden of course that we're all ready to carry, as we carry it, and it's also one of the next indicators that points us to action. The Constitutional Court, we have heard countless times through the debate, has made a decision on the need to equalise the conditions for the exercise of pension insurance rights for men and women. The conditions are proposed and now in order not to repeat all of this together, I just have to say that the three-month alignment compared to the previous reading that was in six months is twice as good as the proposal that was in the previous debate. Such a transitional period lasts 19 years, will be completed at 2029, and since 1.1. 2030 men and women under equal conditions will exercise the right to an age and early retirement. We also heard the European rule. The starting factor, we also heard with what and there's no need to repeat it again, and insurance companies with a longer period of 40 years will have an early retirement pension reduced by 0.15% per month as before. And that should also be emphasized. In the transitional period until the end of 2029, women will be gradually tightened by the conditions of retirement, under which they will be properly applied when determining the starting factor. It is further proposed that farmers, if they wish to get out of that insurance willingly, if they so wish and do not want to be in the family holding system, be enabled to do so, and certainly, in the final text of the bill, a much better solution is a longer period of time for equalising retirement pensions with the evaluation of the pension. This certainly goes in the direction of warning the inflow of new beneficiaries of pensions, will slow down the growth of pension expenditure in the medium term, especially in the long term. In the end, I'll vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60270	Thank you. Two corrections, two replicas. First correction, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60271	It is incorrect and yet because of your inaccuracy you call to God for a witness, which is unforgivable. You say thank God the measure of economic recovery results. So are you even following what's going on around you? That all the polls say that we are worse than a Kyrgyzstan, that we have settled between Guatemala and Botswana, that today's report by the International Monetary Fund, which warns us that the situation will happen in Croatia worse than in Greece unless we take adequate economic recovery measures. And what you're talking about and about some sort of economic recovery measure, for such measures, you can only thank the devil, not God.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60272	No, no, no, a little too heavy words and stuff. You don't have to call the devil, the devil will come after himself. Then the devil should be expelled from someone. We've got the exorcists who will. And Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60273	Dear counterpart Neda Klaric said the government's proposal was the result of a deal with the unions. This bill is not the result of a union deal, it is more the result of a fifth-speed drive, and a fast ride is dangerous and punishable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60274	Too fast. Fast within the limits of the law is permitted. Two replicas. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60275	Well, colleagues of Nedo, you have well noticed that this final bill from that part of the economic recovery programme of the Republic of Croatia, and although the opposition does not want to admit it, these measures are necessary because of the unfavourable ratio of insurance and pensioners. And that's what we've already talked about, so this ratio of destroys the current pension system, that's the basic goal, and this government is doing everything to somehow try to disburse that pension system and that simply as many insurance companies go into full retirement and as little as possible by any other basis. Because I'm data that only 51.42% of pensioners are entitled to a full pension is a disaster. It means that the rest of it is doing right by some other ground. And who he wants to be clear to can be made clear. And another great quality is what exactly this bill is a product of consent with a social partner and it is one quality new that this government is actually trying to make maximum arrangements and bring everyone closer to social partners, so one-sided nothing works, as we had examples. And believe me, fellow Nedo, we were never closer to Kyrgyzstan than in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60276	Replicate response, Ms. Representative, Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60277	Thank you very much. Well, here's Mr. Kunst, dear colleague, you're quite right. I will repeat once again to us is definitely a great burden of responsibility in what state the pension insurance system will inherit our future generations. In 2050, I'll say again, the share of older people over 65 years of life will be more than 35%. The fact is also that the reform of the pension system began in '98. In the year, that the law has experienced this which we have been talking about since the 10th changes and complements and it certainly goes and is placed in the economic recovery programme no matter what some think of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60278	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60279	My colleague Klaric, I find it really difficult to accept the argument that this law in that section relating to the equalisation of age for men and women is the result of compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision. What does that mean? Isn't it the government's job to pass laws to the citizens and to the workers? Is it not the task of the wise government to change laws when they in practice prove to be bad, unfair or inequitable? Give me one reason, one argument why this government couldn't, and based on the Law on Gender Equality that we brought in 2008 and which speaks of special measures, why it couldn't suggest for example. Constitutional changes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60280	Replicate response, Ms. Representative, Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60281	Well, here I am, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I, Mrs. Romana, really don't want to paralyze at all in any way with decisions of such a high court, I really don't think of it on one side, and on the other side, I will definitely say again, we can think of whatever we want, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia has far gone with a legislative framework between which you, too, state the Law on Gender Equality, that I don't list a whole range of laws that prevent both violence and any kind of discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60282	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60283	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the thing, in the first reading, and in the course of the debate so far, almost everything's said. I don't think I'll say anything new, maybe I could give up the debate, but I can't because I just promised my pensioners there to talk. I can't accept that Silvano Hrelja is the only lawyer retired. I love pensioners, I respect them, and I want them to be worthy of their rights that they deserve. It has been said, but it is good to repeat, it is said that all countries, many countries in Europe, are dealing with pension reform, and we see in France these days very much with pension reform. We heard how much it cost all together, but we also heard the ratio that the number of employees is making to the pensioners. We have 1.29, and for comparison in Germany it is 3.91 to 1; in Italy 3.17 to 1. It's a fact and it stands. Certainly, many predecessors also said that this system based on generation solidarity in very complex circumstances and hardly sustainable and under these circumstances, the government, therefore representing the economic recovery programme in May 2010, stated that the revision of the pension systems will be carried out under special conditions and their reduction and preparation for the total abolition of certain categories. So that's what we discussed, we made a decision not to repeat three and a half thousand above, etc. 10% decrease. In the second part, it is said that preparations will be made for introducing changes in the pension insurance system. And these changes are now being debated in the first part and on the equality of life and on the starting factor. I don't think we have anything to say again, that everything is really said. And now here in the second reading are the four amendments that Mr. Secretary of State made very nicely. So, as far as life is concerned, it's increased to 20 years, so 2030. I don't have any dilemmas here, de-commit with the Constitution, and that's more so than the coalition government's 2003 strategy has said that it intends to do the same, in order to do so. In that part, I think it's all clear. As far as the starting factor Mr. Secretary of State is concerned, I think he explained it precisely and that in that part it is consistent with the internship etc. that they're in a way now. I might look back and that moment is still mentioned above a certain deadline that in plus is kind of stimulated by those who will stay longer working, but I'd like to mention maybe only the moment that was less mentioned here today, which is farmers. As I come from the agricultural area, the feathers of agriculture, I want to say anyway, I don't think that part's mentioned enough. Farmers, thank God last year, the Agricultural Law was passed and there was also mentioned farmers and family farms, the register of family farms. And in these circumstances, it was, since we are witnessing that there are many mixed agricultural economies, where they are provided on various grounds, and I think in that part I am pleased to now, so that it is an art. 3. who says that anyone who doesn't want to stay in this system that he wants, of course, to get out, that's one moment that's important. And the second moment to remain in that system is for those who do indeed work in agriculture. I think it's very important to mention that part because I think farmers deserve it. Maybe they're also retired and make up a significant number of pensioners. We have to mention if we're going to talk about statistics that about 100 grand, as far as I know, so both craftsmen and farmers in that section are participating. Well, in that part, I'm going to support certainly the amendments to this Pension Insurance Act. Here's so much from me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60284	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was pleased to hear this debate of yours, especially when you touched our opposition in 2000 to 2003, which strongly advocates all rights, for women terriblely, so they cut birth benefits, fired 10 thousand police and military workers quickly, and now they have much better things to do and they get information. Namely, they are now establishing the Ministry of extraterrestrial Contact, the minister has, and then they will solve this much faster and much better probably than 2002.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60286	Replication response, Mr. Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60287	Well, I thank my fellow twilight for noticing this, and I want to notice it, but I don't want it to be politicized. We can remember for a long time, all of us can remember what happened. And I want this information of yours and birth benefits that are a reduction and wages to nurses and doctors and many women. Then there wasn't so much for women's rights. I think we need to be critical that we have to remember, it's good to remember a very important moment to remind us to be better in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60288	Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60289	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning, it is important to say first, why is the Pension Insurance Act changed and secondly, what is changed in the Pension Insurance Act? Today we are witnessing in this assembly that there have been various opinions about it, but I will try and I am fairly sure in my debate to prove why and why. Therefore, it is changed due to the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, it is also changed because of the decision and decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and because the current state of the pension system regarding the number of insurance workers, the number of pensioners, their age, or the age when they start to use the pension and pension insurance rights, so it is difficult for the pension system to be sustainable particularly for the longer term. This can be supported by many data, so today in Croatia the number of insurance companies and the ratio of the number of pensioners is only 1.29:1. At the age of 40, there are only 11.65% of pensioners, of which in early retirement at 40 years it's all 5 thousand 526, which is only 6% of all in early retirement. Five thousand eighty-seven women have a 35-year-old internship and more. With an internship of 35 years to 39 years, it has 23.81%, so only 35% of the pensioners have more than 35 years of training. and the average years of training of all pensioners are 32 years, etc. I could talk more information about that. These are just some of the reasons that I've listed that need to change the law and change it. However, it is important to stress that it is not about pension reform, but only about amending several articles of the Pension Insurance Act. The peace reform was carried out when the pension system really reformed, as the 2rd and 3rd pillar of pension insurance was introduced. The possibility of retirement was abolished only on the basis of 40 and 35 years of internships, extended years of life as a condition for retirement insurance by 5 years. Therefore, it is not about pension reform, but about three amendments to the law, with several amendments, of which the equalisation of age for men and women is conditional upon the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. So, from what is important, we have three changes. The first is, the changes relate to equating conditions for the exercise of age pension rights and early retirement for women in relation to men Respecting the social partners' proposal, the conditions are proposed at three months in each calendar year, so that men and women from 1 January 2030 will achieve retirement and early retirement under equal age and pension conditions. 2. In view of the importance of reducing the age pension for the material and social security of users, the starting factor for determining that pension would be determined in the future not only in relation to years of life, but also in the completed retirement period of the insurance company and in the range of 0.34% to 0.15% per month of previous achievement. Also in the transitional period until the end of 2029. For women, the conditions of the pension internship under which they will exercise the right to early retirement will be gradually tightened, which will be changed accordingly in determining the starting factor. It was also proposed in this bill that insurance companies so far be told what Col. Milinkovic had said before me, i.e. allow farmers to step out of that insurance on their own request if they want to and will not be in the family holding system. These amendments and amendments to the Peace Act and its application will certainly result in a slowdown in the inflows of new pensioners and a slowdown in pension and pension income expenditures in the future, as insurance companies will be kept in the world of work longer and will exercise the right to retire at a later age and will pay longer contributions. Now, in my brief debate, these are the most important things, namely the fact that this law is being changed and why it is being amended and amended. I fully support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60290	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60291	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If we had a project first in 2000 and then a project from college to work, then really with this kind of government pension reform and these kind of bill proposals we can really talk about this kind of reform that can carry the title From Work to Cemetery. Does the government know that Croatia simply became a retired nation, retired? Are you taking care of it? Is that why you're worried about how many new pensioners you have, how many less employees do you have? Are you making sure that the pension fund is destitute without you taking care of it for years? That it's so-called. the minimum criminal reform until 1997, the failure to pay the pension insurance contributions, or the crime? I'm speaking to you, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60292	Easy, easy. That kind of rhetoric...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60293	The public expects answers to these questions. Why did you decriminalize this behavior? In order to please the rich, and the weight when they bring us into trouble, then you place the weight of that burden on the back of those who are least guilty of it. So the question arises as to how many rich people will make the fate of the poor, as long as the government on the side will follow it as an uninterested party, that is, that is, allowing for such behavior. Moreover, many legal solutions encourage this. Why isn't paying a salary a felony? Because all that later, all these procedures are reflected in the amount of retirement. Do you know that in the courts of Croatia, workers are looking for 100,000 cases of unpaid their earnings and unpaid salaries. So, with such a legal proposal, that is, by the original government's intention that, after an emergency procedure here in the Croatian Parliament, most of this vote, you caused further destabilization of the system, so who knows which way. It's not enough for the government that it's not useful, it's even harmful. How much because of such a legal proposal and great public anxiety, how many new pensioners came and burdened the pension fund. They're all people who really wanted to work. So let's be open, and people who wouldn't be tired of hard working conditions, but precisely because of their little pensions want to do as much work as possible. Well, when you know that these people want to do as much as possible, and you as great lovers of respect for the law and legality as quickly as possible wanted to live up to the Constitutional Court's decision that women and men of equal age have to retire. It's called the same thing here, so what do you want? You had a program like that. That was a strategy. The strategy is one plan as well as other laws to adapt this one ultimate goal and formal equality between men and women equally. In this sense, however, you did nothing, several important laws were passed, and in the Family Law, so you changed it faster and better as soon as you came to power. On several occasions, as an opposition, we have proposed laws that will begin as much as possible, not evenly, but start equating the daily lives of women and men. That's what you said with the dynation, and it's a woman's choice, it's a man's choice. However, in many countries that are now gone and which have fully leveled the conditions, and these private conditions do not have such problems for women and men. And they still haven't reached the legal situation that men and women of equal age are going to retire, but still feel that this one ideal of equality of everyday life has not been achieved in practice. Even wrongly interpreted is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which essentially in the good part, is prescribed from what the European Court of Human Rights has just said, so this is now being corrected with such a legal proposal and it is certainly good for a 30-year-old. However, we need to know what will happen tomorrow and in three months and possibly three years, because we will find ourselves unprepared again. So in terms of equating the living conditions of women and men, in terms of first and foremost maternity leave that you have done, in terms of employment and the minimum measures we have had to encourage women's employment, female entrepreneurship has disappeared. So given the fact that you're Mrs. Kosor's friend, who is more well-known to the public than... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60294	Comrade Antičević, refrain from such comments. Don't pollemize.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60295	Keep going. Don't get me distracted, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60296	I can't, it's impossible to unfocus you, you're very focused.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60297	So, you have a puzzling piece of information where it's finally revealed all your great worries, where it's fortunate that it was, where it's lucky, but unfortunately it's not. That's why you're being denied by the Bureau of Statistics. For the first time in Croatia's history, and before, while Croatia was part of another country as a single country... Listen, for the first time in the first grade, fewer kids signed up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the question is, every time you talk, we have a number of newborn children, where those children, for the first time we have fewer enrolled in the first grade, so in compulsory schooling. You don't do less in college. Therefore, all these measures that have not led to, so first of all, I oppose these solutions and the legislation of something without having created basic assumptions for equalising the lives of men and women. And one more thing, we can't talk about pension reform unless it's work protection and that's something I think is common. There shouldn't be a fight, there's really a effort to make. Maybe we should start with the simplest thing, so the employer can be obliged to pay the worker what he's earned. I don't know why you're resisting it so much, it's gone, it's really become irrational. Finally, it is also required by honest employers who pay salaries to the worker and who are therefore in an unequal position in relation to those who are tolerated by the state who do not pay the worker or pay them on black or pay half of the salary that has been declared, pay half of it on their hands and thus impoverish the pension fund. So once again, there is a need to consider why the former crime of non-payment is decriminalized, so not only taxes but pension funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60298	Thank you. All three corrections and only five replicas. First correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60299	Thank you very much. Comrade Anticevic, you said this law was a destabilision of the system. No, this law is aimed at stabilising the system and that pension system so it's not true. Or did you say the same incorrect problems women in Croatia don't have in countries where the age of men and women is equal? Well, I don't know where you get that kind of knowledge. Women have problems there too, and I agree completely with all those that, as far as I'm concerned, women shouldn't work at all if they had such a possibility and a standard. But we don't, you know that very well. And as for these two projects that you initially highlighted, that's true. There was a project in 2003, "from college to work," but unfortunately, that project didn't come back to life. But this project, "From Work to Cemetery", according to the 2003 records of the dead, I have to tell you that it was quite successfully conducted at that time of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60300	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60301	Well, here's Mr. Vice President, a colleague falsely accuses this authority of the smallest number of enrolled children in the first class this year. It should be said that these children were conceived after measures during the government of the SDP and after measures, all measures taken by the government so that we were still well and gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60302	And Madam Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60303	Thank you very much. Here I'd like to ask you to listen to me when I'm correcting you for what you've said wrong. You said in your debate that the growth of newborn children, that we boast, that the Croatian government boasts that the growth of newborn children is more and that the demographic picture of Croatia is better than before. And that for the first time now in the history of Croatia, the smallest children are enrolled in the first class. Yeah, that's true. But it is not true that the Croatian government boasts. It is true that it is precisely the law when you were the holder of the government in Croatia that you abolished the right to maternity benefits, that you shortened maternity benefits and that it was just that year, seven years ago, when now the first generation after those laws was due to enter the first class. And you said before the break that you were a thinker and that some were just sitting there. Obviously, you've started to sit more than you think, because forget about what you said in an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60304	The old love of oblivion is gone! Now let's go to the replicas. First Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60305	Dear fellow Anticevic, I draw attention to what I mentioned in my debate that this does not apply to pensioners. This applies to today's workers, this law, and that's why it's weird that they're dealing with some compromise here, with some agreement with the social partners. And what I have to say, unfortunately, by listening to your heated debate, I still have to assess, I think you're mistaken. This Croatia has been in constant transition for the past 20 years from the country of proletarians to the country of pensioners, all for the benefit of large capital and 200 wealthy families in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60306	And Mr. Zdenko Franic, replica. Okay, well, the proletarian thing to do now, let it go. There was a Proleter football club where I played for sixty-one years. Then he fell into the second league and went out and was gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60307	Dear colleagues, Anticevic, speaking of the coalition government's strategy and the conditions for the retirement of men and women, I would like to remind them that it was not an obligation but the right to choose to stay for up to 65 years, and with 60 if they consider it appropriate to retire.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60308	And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Antičević Marinović, you said I should say two paroles. One is "From college to work" and the other is your forecast "from work to grave" given what is proposed so in the future. However, we forgot that this kind of legal proposal will most likely produce one third to say the saying, which is "From college to desk." Furthermore, you spoke of non-payment of contributions to the Peace Fund and payments. Do you know when workers find out that there's no contribution to pension insurance for them? Then when they fill in or meet the terms of retirement, they come into retirement and then institutions that the employer has not paid them a contribution of two, three, or no more years. And one more thing. Regularly from year to year, the Mirovinski Fund reports to us and the other day it was the Report of the Peace Fund, which constantly shows the payment of non-retired pensions of more than 100 million kuna per year. Well, in 10 years, it's worth a billion kuna. And now that you add up what is not paid through contributions to pension funds and these unpaid and non-performing pensions, then indeed not only would the Remetinec be full but also Lepoglava and a series of other penitentiary facilities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60310	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60311	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Antičević, when you say this "From work to the cemetery" unfortunately I do in the profession which is exactly what today's forest workers are experiencing, because under these terms of retirement I simply cannot wait for a pension, regardless of what happened to them through the Croatian forests, there were other employers paid a pension internship with an increase of 9m duration, i.e. for a year's work year and four months' pension. To retire at all, and these are people at the age of 55 because if they start working at 20, 25 means at age 55 they're turning 40, then they can't retire because they're damaged by the applicable law. Then they make it up not to say the diseases they're looking for a disability pension, but unfortunately they haven't enjoyed it for a long time because they're physically and otherwise exhausted, and they don't live to be 65 years old. Unfortunately, I say we live in, and I've worked under such conditions, so then I know what it looks like. They're not just forest workers, they're drivers of heavy trucks, then masons, etc. The question is whether they'll even live to see their pension, but they'll probably go to the cemetery, but that's one advantage, from the employer then they get severance and there's some breakfast maybe.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60312	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60313	Mr. Vice President, I have to get into the controversy with my colleague Ingrid, because my thinking is that unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Croatia was not ready to enter this crisis period, and the crisis period to address in adequate ways. So I would say besides bringing solutions to burdens and pensioners, and today's workers if we look at this pension system, if we look at the thinking of the Labour Law, this government unfortunately burdens both large capital and economy. Simple business conditions are not good for them, there is no solution. Therefore, any investment in economic activity will not give back capital, it will not secure profits. Also in solving I'd say that extra employees will have a number of new layoffs with far larger severances. Therefore, unfortunately not knowing how to solve the crisis, not knowing what the causes of the crisis are paid both workers and pensioners, but I would say the owners of the capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60314	Replication response. Here you are, Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60315	Well, I hate to stand in defense of this kind of capital, but my colleague Linic is absolutely right, because it has already come to them. It's gotten to them, too. And that there's a lot to answer for. Very short. This is just one chaos before the complete collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60316	That's it? Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this bill, i.e. amending the Peace Act, is actually not a pension reform at all, because it will not improve the relationship between employees and pensioners, it will not improve the financial situation of the pension system, it is in one word, it will not improve the economy either, so neither is the economic recovery measure, it is only concentrated on the decision being implemented by the Constitutional Court. However, it was brought two years ago, and in those two years in general, at least as far as the public is concerned, including us in Parliament, nothing has been done to e.g.. The discussion under which conditions the women who work today, and tomorrow they will retire to work. Which is how women in the textile industry who have mostly worked three shifts a few years ago, sometimes in four shifts. What is it with women who work in health care who work night shifts and are on duty? What is it with women working in class class with kids and having to work until they're 65? So not even the financial situation of the family is taken into account, today the average salary does not satisfy the living, minimum living conditions of the family, and how else to send a child to kindergarten if there is not enough funds in the family, if there are not enough kindergartens, or in the nursery, or in the whole day stay at school, or older family members, sick family members in nursing homes if there are not enough, or if there is no means to do so. That is why, even if it was debated within the government, there is no public knowledge, and therefore, for these reasons, this proposal is also the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60318	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60319	I think things are already so naked, that we need to talk very simply. Today this legal proposal defends three men here. And I won't be at all afraid to be given here to talk about some kind of intimate thing. That's common ground. As did the judges of the Constitutional Court who, in most men, forged the fate of women. These same women who had ironed them, who had washed them and who had taken care of them for years, who had taken care of their own parents, who had taken care of their parents, their partners. And what you colleagues have said, so also the Constitutional Court when it is referred to and practically prescribed, our Constitutional Court is a copy, a well-written decision of the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights, and there is not much to be tortured, talking about this very adjustment that a whole series of laws should be made to equalise the living conditions of men and women. But therefore, we are being tailored, especially by women, it would be polite for someone to come from the government and that when questions like this are on the agenda, where the fates of women are spoken of, women also have something to say, and you have forbidden them what is politically incorrect. So in such conditions not to mention just, I'm going to mention them again, you can imagine a hairdresser, a waitress who started working since she was 16, 17 years old to serve you at the age of 65. Would you be, then, but it's a woman who's been doing all these other jobs, which unfortunately men have been deprived of... Well, she's not less valuable, but she can't simply do the whole job, dear lady, where society and the state didn't provide children's kindergartens, or retirement homes, or mangers, but simply transferred the whole burden to women. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60320	Okay. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60321	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Notably, the second pillar, or generational, is the first pillar, or generational solidarity, of early retirement system cancer. This law will by no means improve the situation and the law, as already mentioned before me, is not a pension reform. Moreover, the law does not improve the condition of today’s pensioners whose situation is actually alarming. Here is today the State Statistics Institute reported that unemployment has reached an alarming 16.9%. The question arises where are these workers who are going to pay in pension funds? As well as why the portfolio of pension funds that received their share of shares during the conversion and privatisation was devastationed, however, various transactions, intentions, sales were fragmented and there are now some 3 billion nominal shares. What is the market value of this latter. The law also presents itself as a measure of economic recovery, but there should be far more proactive measures to act on economic recovery, not with this set of laws where we have today abolished some agencies, yesterday funds, agencies and institutes etc. How is it possible, Mr. Secretary of State, that every fourth regular pension is a disability pension? Well, we have the worst working legislation in Europe if not the world, if that's really true. And the truth is, according to this report, we had on our benches the other day. Since 1993, the number of regular disability pensions has been growing exponentially with a period of 3.8 years. It's what anyone who's got a skill in math can get on an exponential curve, see that the correlation coefficient is 98%. It's a disaster! How can it be, since I suspect that every worker has a 25% chance that the very fact that he entered the labour market becomes disabled, it is obvious that the system or the mechanism of going into disability pensions is used as some quasi social measure that is inappropriate and damages these pensioners who, after we undoubtedly accept this law, will have to work until who knows what time. These are proactive measures that should be prevented. I'm not saying it would save the pension system, but a little bit of every smart measure improves the situation. For example, why are these funds also managed by a second pension pillar with so many restrictions on access to manage the collected funds? Why not increase by at least a miserable half-percent level, for example. This venture capital, this capital that plays entrepreneurship capital, that capital that we took here yesterday by directing or attaching the Fund for Development and Employment to the Ministry of Economy? Why would such proactive measures not affect the generation of pension funds’ profits and try to improve the situation of today’s workers, not to make their lives, especially women, worsen by laws such as those of their older age? How can it be tolerated, Mr. Secretary of State, for several years, that employers do not pay contributions to pension funds and that the state tolerates it? However, when a desperate worker steals or alienates or takes or collects his own salary from the boss who doesn't pay him his earned income, then he has to go to jail. Here's the title from Evening List today. Where's the justice? Where is righteousness? Where's the welfare state? Such laws cannot and will not do so. We're doing less and less, and the later we retire, and that needs to be prevented. The government needs to take the right economic recovery measures that will reduce unemployment, not that this employment is reaching a terrible nearly 17%. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, this law can't or won't fix the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60322	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. The club of HNS-HSU representatives, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60323	Dear Mr. Vice President, here is the end of this debate, Mr. Secretary of State, Director, Mr. Rismondo, colleagues and colleagues, the end of the debate on amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. I will briefly say that no pension system can bear all this verse in the labour market that is happening in Croatia, whether it is caused or caused by the functioning of that market itself or is challenged outside, and I think that this verse is partly caused by the government. 2. The best retirement policy is a full-time policy, but according to that policy, we can't move forward. 3. This bill does not address or contribute to the financial sustainability of the pension system but certainly the collection of contributions would be much more helpful than will help these amendments and additions to the laws that apply to current workers, i.e. future pensioners, so all those who will retire after the entry into force of this law. Furthermore, the law does not distinguish enough of one who does not have enough internships from one who has more than 40 years of internships, 41, two, three, four, five years and one who has lost his job without his own free will or has lost his job because the company has gone bankrupt, which has been declared a technological surplus. In this context, the HNS and HSU have proposed amendments. An amendment to Article 7 where we are looking for an outflow of the word interest or the very idea of interest from the pension system. So far, no interest is mentioned in the pension legislation. This is the first time interest is mentioned in one article and it is the introduction of one system through the Finance Ministry's rules into the pension legislation. Furthermore, we have upgraded the system that was adopted in 2007 and which is much fairer and we have suggested that the factors for reducing early retirement are defined in a different way. For a person who is 36 years old, the pension rate is 0.15 per month. At 37 years of age, 0.12 a month. From 38, 0.09 per month of early retirement. At the age of 39, a pension rate of 0.06 per month of early retirement and completed up to 40 years of retirement duty of 0.03 per month. That would be much more appropriate than what we have right now and we suggest that all those who are more than 40 years old do not penalize regardless of the age of life. It follows, of course, the development of this model in Article 28 and follows the amendment concerning the entry into force of this law, because we believe that it would be correct for all users who are entitled to leave early retirement in this calendar year to have equal treatment and that they are in the same legal position during one calendar year. Secondly, we offer conclusions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in front of the HNS and HSU clubs. The first conclusion is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to establish and regulate, within 6 months, the tasks or activities on which women cannot work for more than 60 years of life. Secondly, it is up to the Legislative Committee to establish and publish the consolidated text of the Pension Insurance Act within 30 days of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, as this is already the 11th amendment. And just one more sentence. Take a look at yourself in the newsletter of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2009 among the categories of pensions. The old pension accounts for 24% of the total pensions in 2009, the early pension is 21%, the disabled is 26%, and the remaining 28% of the 44 thousand 799 retired in 2009 are family pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60324	Thank you. SDP club Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60325	Here, Mr. Vice President, allow me, at the end of this debate, to ask a few questions that seem to me, and after the debate, to be quite appropriate and almost impose themselves. In fact, the question cannot be addressed to civil servants, officials from the Pension Insurance Office, because they cannot give an answer to that question. And the real question is, why does the government, from the government, have no one, why does the government even go with a bill like this? Here I was trying to get an answer somehow. I cannot understand, perhaps Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament as the ruling party's official and Mrs. Roksandic as a member of the presidency knows why the government has embarked on such a single project that will not bring her any points, which will not solve a single problem at all. Everything seems to me to be somewhere in the 5th month when that economic consolidation program was being done, etc. Someone said people have to do something with pensions. We have major problems, disproportionate insurance, pensioners, etc. And then they said come up with something you'd do in retirement. And then there were these solutions that had nothing to do with some kind of financial consolidation because the effects of any in this respect would not be particularly short-term. If in 20 years men and women are equally retired, then the effects will be visible or at the earliest in ten years, not now. This penalization of the earlier retirement that was then abolished will also not prevent this mass stampede caused by these announcements this year, so no single question will be resolved by this law. It's also well-warned for this pay phone. The key issues of the pension system are not solved in the pension system, that big problem we have. It's not a problem that can be solved within that system. The problem is labour markets, the problem is lack of development strategy, low employment rates. That's the problem. That's what these gentlemen can do for as long as they want there. They can't stop people from getting old. People come to some age when they have to retire. They can't do that. There can be plus, minus 5 grand up, down if it squeezes a little bit, or if it's stimulated. There's no big room for that problem to be solved. That's not possible. It's not clear to me that the political damage for you is certainly huge, for the citizens seems bad. And now something for the secretary of state. I'm not a mother-in-law, so I didn't want to react, but as a parliamentary representative, I'm obliged to react because he's not the vice president of the Parliament. You have no right, no one has authorized you as an officer to teach here and disqualify any parliamentary representative, opposition, positions etc. You can take part in the debate, comment, explain, but disqualification is not your right. The more the minister you called, the one you had along the way, you don't have now, and that's one reason you don't have any IMF World Bank, the devil, the God who's pressing you, has guaranteed the growth of pensions never recorded in the history of the Croatian state. 48% were nominally increasing pensions, of 33% of the real pension growth was in the 2000-2003 term. In those times when the number of unemployed was reduced, when we had growth rates of 5.7%, when we had growth of all social transfers, including compensation, twice as much child allowances and maternity benefits didn't even fall for the lip, it was just a different distribution. They got unemployed, students and craftsmen, etc. So you have no right to exercise from the context of any measure and here to comment on what they are, when, how and in any way. It's none of your business. So, the SDP regrets that this law doesn't hit the point, it won't do any good, he'll add to these unfortunate people their existence, and so the wisest thing to do is to pull it back and say well, we played a little bit, we'll think about better times how to make order and within that system, and there's something to do, believe me, but that's not what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60326	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Government's representative present at the Parliament's meeting shall be the Prime Minister's position, shall give notice and expert notices and shall give views and opinions and shall assess everything that is going on in the assembly. Therefore, the government's representative should not be allowed, counterpart Anticevic, to be authorised and has the right and the duty to plead both on the positions and representatives presented in the debate. There's no one to insult right now. The right to insult is no one, they are not new customs. It's a good custom to have no one's right to insult anyone. ... There's nothing against the government. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Counter-Government like me, you understand. ... [[Intruder Antičević: I counter Sanader.]] Final review, State Secretary Kresimir Rogman. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60327	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable MPs and MPs. In the end, I must say, the state of the pension system and the state of society and the economy at all is undoubtedly such that the need for change is therefore necessary. According to this situation in the pension system, we all agreed that it is such that it is not sustainable on the long term, as regards the number of insurance companies, the number of pensioners, the number of pensioners. However, in much of the debate from such acceptance of the situation, the de facto conclusion follows that, despite this, we either need not change anything or even increase the existing level of law. Unfortunately, in this situation it is not possible not only of course it is not possible to increase the level of law now but it is not possible to maintain this situation at the same level. Therefore, this bill of law is to take steps, so move simply because it is necessary. The increase in the early retirement factor is one in this variant as now proposed in the final proposal one would say a mild way to detimise early retirement, respecting the internship, so not just years of life. So, with that scale, I would say that this actually achieves one satisfactory ratio, one balance between the need to further destimulate early retirement, but to make it a little easier than it was in the first reading and to further acknowledge the internship. As for the Constitutional Court's decision, I once again emphasise what I said before and last time, so we have no choice whether we accept it or not. I read earlier what the Constitutional Court said and wrote, assessing the provisions of the Law on Pension Insurance 33, 31, and these others unconstitutional and cited the reasons why. The Constitutional Court gave no possibility or gave the condition that other laws should be passed previously, that something else should be changed previously, and it simply assessed it as unconstitutional and we are changing the law in this direction. I think it's unacceptable to go in some other way, to play it out, to try if we're going to change the Constitution or whatever. The Constitutional Court is therefore there to correct the legislative and executive authority if it adopts a regulation that is incompatible with the Constitution, it is its role and the purpose is and after that it is also the meaning that then the Constitutional Court's decision is respected and that we have now done, maximumly respecting the fact that it is of course for women now one measure that affects them and respecting that it goes to one truth long, very long period and very gradually over 3 months. As far as the cost of this bill is concerned, as I've said before, there's no stampede. So this increase now is 13 and some thousands compared to 8 and some thousands in the same period last year, currently somewhere 63% of the increase, and definitely one significant part of these early retirements caused by the economic situation, i.e. by reducing the number of jobs. And finally, and as I said, that cost has to exist because if it wasn't, if the short-term cost were an obstacle, if we didn't want to accept some short-term cost for long-term profit. At that time, the Peace Law or any other law like this could never be changed to something that was unfavourable for the insurance companies. Let me also point out that when the effects of this law are displayed as a statement of "From Work to Cemetery" I really don't think it has any basis. The current duration, therefore, of enjoying the use of retirement is 17 years and 11 months. Of which 16 years and 8 months average male, 20 years and 7 months average female retirement. So early retirement still needs to be added to a number of years, not maybe 5 but 3 or 4. So no such claim stands. And finally say two things. A deal has been reached with the social partners, it has been reached and exactly what they have said is a compromise. But why compromise? Each agreement represents one compromise, and that is something that could have been achieved jointly. You can't expect in any kind of arrangement to achieve everything that one party wants. The compromise is exactly the way to achieve consensus. And in conclusion, this law is part of these changes concerning the entire pension system. It was previously that one change in pensions by special regulations. It's about changing other regulations. An inter-resor group has also been established to prepare to amend those rules with the task of ending it by the end of the year. So that's where it's going to be, it's going to be about preparing regulations on all specific pensions, all 14 categories of special pensions. I can't tell you at this point, there's no solution yet. But it's being analyzed. The change in contributions to the second pension pillar, the reduction in the cost of the second pension rate and thinking and what was said, the possibility of changing the way investment and investment. Maybe some sort of mitigation that I'm not going with the details right now. So this is not the end of changing the rules concerning pension insurance, but should be the beginning and part of a complete solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60328	Thank you. We have a report of a correction of the allegations, a distinguished colleague of the Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60329	Well, you, Mr. Secretary of State, said that the pension system isn't sustainable on a long-term basis. It's not that I don't understand. But such a formulation and such rhetoric scares our pensioners. I would recommend it if I could, in the context of correcting the incorrect assumption, say, and be all serious and say that the state must make up for what is missing from the part of the tax revenue and what is not being collected through the contributions. And let us say that our primary task is new employment, payment of contributions and payments, non-payment of paid and unpaid work in Croatia, and that we will target all possible energy. We're going to be much better off than we're dealing with today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60330	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And I'm concluding this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60331	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, that was the second reading, P.Z. No. 596. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, Representative Emil Tomljanovic, the Club of HNS, HSU and the SDP Representatives' Club. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted amendments to the Committee on Legislatives and Representatives Emil Tomljanovic and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft of the law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the other amendments. Mr. Kresimir Rogman, State Secretary. Here you go. First of all, I would like to ask for the Club of Representatives of the HNS, HSU, Amendment 1 to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60332	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs and MPs. This amendment is not accepted. Such a solution is more favourable to the payment method when late payments are made. And as for the regulation, the legal frameworks are given as to how this regulation will be adopted, so we have enough legal provisions for the adoption of the rules, i.e. Sublegal act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60333	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60334	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, look, this is obvious evidence that in one system that did not know a word of debt or interest, which is a pension system, the Minister of Finance rules enters a word of interest and a calculation of interest for people living on their own and who are in a significantly different status compared to all other employees in Croatia who live on their own. So here it is, this article of the law is about discrimination, or a new inequality in insurance status. So I think you're making a big mistake not to accept this amendment. But all mistakes are paid in the end. And I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60335	I ask that we declare ourselves by voting on this amendment. This amendment is not accepted by the Government. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, If you think it would be better manually, so can it. Yeah, okay. But for now, here's when we said let's do it. The result? This amendment was not accepted, 36 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 69 against the proposal of the MPs. Now we're going to vote by raising our hands. We move to Amendment 2 to Article 13 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60336	The amendment is not accepted because it would stimulate early retirement. Where the early retirement factor is determined in such a small, almost symbolic amount, so as to stimulate early retirement, it shall be specified in paragraph 1 and in paragraph 2. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60337	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60338	I cannot agree with your conclusion that this amendment would motivate workers to leave for early retirement. It has already done quite enough to announce Mr. Shucker and this government on the drastic punishment of all those who will go into early retirement, of course which later is something mild but completely insufficient. I think the amendment and addition of the Pension Act that we made in 2007 was a good platform and a good measure to go to early retirement, i.e. a good coefficient. I also can't agree with the fact that you don't want to admit what's normal in other countries that people at the age of 40 retire without any penalization. And we also introduced you a new category, a category of unemployed employee who's been at the Employment Service for a long time and who would have declared this Office unemployed and we suggested that he retire without a pension because he simply didn't run out of business with his own guilt. So it's not his fault at all. So, I'm sorry you don't recognize this, so please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60339	Thank you. We'll vote by raising our hands. This amendment is therefore not accepted by the Government. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. We move on to Amendment three of Article 28 is amended and reads etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60340	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, these are transitional provisions. He is in connection with the previous amendment 2. And since Amendment 2 is not accepted, no such provision shall be adopted in the transitional provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60341	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60342	Understandably, this amendment only regulates the transitional period for women, but I stand by that attitude that this is a good amendment and I demand a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60343	Thank you. We vote by raising our hands. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the fourth amendment of the same club to Article 32.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60344	Although it's no big difference, it's two months. Therefore, the proposal is for the law to enter into force on 1 January. However, this law is changed within the framework of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore one shorter deadline is needed and the public and the insurance companies have been informed for months of changes to the law. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60345	Thank you. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60346	It's not true that this isn't a small difference. This is a huge difference, because I am entering into force by this law with a November 1st part of Croatian citizens who will acquire the right, or the conditions for early retirement in this calendar year, to put themselves in a different legal position, and such discrimination is more harmful than five hundred people would possibly go into early retirement by the end of the year. The damage has been done a long time ago, and this damage cannot be fixed by two months before the end of the year adopting this law. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60347	I am voting on this amendment that the government does not accept. Who wants to raise a hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Please note the amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Amendment one to Articles 8, 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60348	It is proposed to delete Articles 8, 9 and 10 which are those articles which meet the Constitutional Court's decision on the equalisation of age as conditions for retirement for men and women. The amendment is not accepted because it would mean denying the Constitutional Court's decision and making it impossible to equalise the conditions of men and women.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60349	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60350	This interpretation that you've just given just doesn't stand. The Constitutional Court speaks of special protection, the Constitutional Court's decision speaks of special protection as well as the Constitution of individual categories of our population, and so on the protection of women, mothers, etc. In this context, it is not, in the Constitutional Court's decision, that the way of equality is not talked about. This is about intent and a 10-year deadline is given to make the exact inequality and inequality that we've talked a lot about here and to regulate it normally. So this interpretation of you has nothing to do with the Constitutional Court's decision. And I am therefore asking to vote on this amendment, that it can equalise but when conditions are created, social preconditions that equalising the age of retirement of men and women can be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60351	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to the amendment of two of the same proposings to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60352	This amendment proposes a different adjustment of the conditions for early retirement. So, with a very small reduction, almost symbolic and further stimulating, so in the second paragraph, additional stimulation of people who, at the age of 40, have retired and have 55 and 60 years of life, respectively. So with this proposal, practically, this real reduction of the starting factor would hardly be, and that would actually mean one additional stimulation of early retirement, and the goal is exactly the opposite, to detimise it. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60353	Thank you. On behalf of the club Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60354	Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here in our proposal we do not give up on the retirement early retirement, we here reflect our request not to change departure until men and women leave. So we're not questioning it, but we're proposing something that can be calculated, which would be much more effective in answering what you're looking for, to demote people by going to... And that's to stimulate all of these who have worked for more than 40 years, it doesn't make any sense, people who have worked 40 years to retire, if they're going to retire. [[You don't understand.]] On the contrary, if someone wants to work longer than 40, not as you suggested over 65 years old, trust him 0.15% per month anyone who can work to stay in the world of work and not run away from it. Accept this solution, I'm sure the HDZ colleagues will vote in favour of this amendment, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60355	Who is for this amendment, which the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to the third amendment of the same proposal, to Articles 26, 27 and 28.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60356	These articles relate to the transitional period, and are related to the amendment one, which proposes that those provisions be deleted, which also equalise the conditions for men and women, so that no amendment is accepted, of course no amendment three is accepted, because it solves the same issue in the transitional period. So the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60357	Thank you. Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go. He's pulling. This amendment has been withdrawn. The fourth amendment of the same proposal, to Article 32.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60358	It is therefore proposed that the law enter into force on 1 July 2011, we believe that this is an unnecessary period of too long, as I said before this law is changed under the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and should therefore be implemented in the manner proposed. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60359	Thank you. Here you go, Mr Davorko Vidovic, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60360	... that the law that regulates something as important in people's lives, such as retirement, is left to people for at least 5, 6 months, not to jump them as you do, and imagine absurdity the law will come as required by the HDZ Club of the Pension Insurance Act on the Day of the Dead. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Is there any symbolism I don't know, but obviously you're burying the good part... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60361	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60362	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60363	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. Like this, the Advocacy Club. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act with the amendments that have been adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 75 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 40 against. We are going to a proposal from the Croatian Assembly of HNS, HSU, which proposes two conclusions to the Croatian Assembly. The first conclusion is: it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish and regulate jobs within 6 months,... activities that women cannot do for more than 60 years. [[You don't understand.]] I'm asking the Government's representative. Life, yeah. [[Intruder: Life.]] That's right. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60364	The conclusion is not accepted, this has been settled by the Law on the Stallion of Insurance with an increased duration, where both the increase of the internship and the reduction of the age limit as conditions for retirement is resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60365	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60366	This is a great delusion by Mr. Secretary of State. I've been involved in a review of the benefits, and this problem is not solved in the benefited internship, and it hasn't been solved, and it hasn't been solved. For her to be, accepting this conclusion could be, but so far it's not settled. Therefore, I am sorry that you do not want to accept something that is most normal in one Germany, France, Italy, and to admit that women really cannot work on all jobs after 60 years, given the psychophysical differences with men and since they do their working life further work on household jobs and given the difference of 5 years. Thus, and since we are part of our working life and in our households, we are a traditional society. Thank you. I demand a vote on this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60367	This is a proposal for a conclusion, so let's please get involved and vote on a conclusion that the government doesn't normally accept. Here you go. Let's get on with it, please. Let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? This proposal is not accepted, 40 for, 5 abstentions and 68 against. The second proposal for a conclusion of the HNS and HSU Club is: it is the responsibility of the Legislative Committee to establish and publish the consolidated text of the Pension Insurance Act within 30 days of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60368	So we accept and the board accepts, it is a useful and practical proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60369	So, this conclusion the other committee accepted, and I don't think there's any need, we accepted this conclusion, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60370	And we move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment, second reading, P.Z. No. 598. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading and concerning amendments shall apply. The debate was held by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. We've received reports from the board on the benches. The amendment was submitted by MP Emil Tomljanovic. Representative of the Proposer is State Secretary Krešimir Rogman. Does he want an opening? Please, I give you my word on behalf of the applicant for an introductory explanation and clarification.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60371	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, the Law on Employment Mediation and Rights during Unemployment changes, I would say, for two reasons. Therefore, one is the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, which introduces short-term measures to limit the full benefit, and to extend the duration of the right to cash compensation to persons at risk of long-term unemployment. We remind only that this Economic Recovery Programme was generally accepted, and at least there was no objection to its content. There's a few things to say about that. So, after years of economic growth, as we know at the end of 2008 and 2009, and of course because of the strong impact of the global economic and financial crisis, there have been negative macroeconomic developments, which have, among other things, affected the rise in the unemployment rate. In fact, a significant decline in production has led to a significant decrease in employment and an increase in unemployment. According to data from the State Statistics Office, the number of registered unemployed fell from a million 517773 in August 2009 to one million 440603 in the same month 2010. It's a 5.1% reduction in employment. The number of unemployed on the Croatian Employment Institute's record during the aforementioned period increased from 251 thousand to 283,330 thousand and 12.9% respectively. The number of unemployed who came directly from work relations increased by 17.4%. According to labour force poll data, unemployment rose from 8.9 in the second quarter of 2009 to 12.4 in the same quarter of 2010. I still have to say that Croatia's unemployment rate is about 55, 56%, of course, lower than in the European Union, which is slightly more than 65%, with a view to 70%. And the unemployment rate is higher than in the European Union at 7.1%. In doing so, it should also be emphasized that... unemployed who, unemployed for more than one year in the total number of registered persons, were 44.3%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is positive is employment increased in September 2010 compared to September 2009 by 18.2%. So the total of that 10 months was employed by 115537 people. So a significantly higher percentage of new employment. So the greater dynamic but the negative part is larger. Of course, because of this, the government adopted short, medium- and long-term economic recovery measures to save as many jobs as possible during the recession and to try to preserve the social existential safety of workers and the population. And the second reason for changing the law... in employment and... [[You don't understand.]] unemployment is a alignment with the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which we have now had a debate. [[You don't understand.]] I will only visit what changes are in relation to the existing law. So the reduction of the fees after the half, now the current fee, not counting the law supplementing the law that temporarily limited it, is now 70% of the first 90 days, 50% for the remaining period, and 40% for that so-called. a permanent fee. The proposal was in the first reading to reduce it in a way that this 70% for the first 3 months remained the same, and then to split it in half and is 35%. The proposal remains, however, but there is now a change from the first reading of the law, where it is proposed to install another protection provision on the minimum level and compensation, so in a way that it, to be one guaranteed minimum amount, is 50% of the minimum wage reduced for contributions to compulsory insurance, which would now amount to a thousand and 125.60 kuna, so that is a fixed amount to be changed, and at present it would be so much. Without that, the fee would be 787.92 kuna, so we keep it justified that this, to ensure such a guaranteed amount, with those who had higher salaries, would have a higher fee. It is also proposed to extend the duration of the right to cash compensation for unemployed people at risk of long-term unemployment. Now this right does not exist in the law and it is proposed that persons, therefore, are paid an additional fee over a period of one to four months. The right to such an additional fee would have been granted on two terms, so that they are continuously on the record for 12 months, and that they have fully used that regular fee, and one scale is proposed for this extended fee, that the one that is regular so as to say the fee is shorter, would now receive this extension longer and vice versa. So that would mean the person was receiving compensation, stopped paying him a fee because his regular she expired, stayed at the employment office because he didn't get a job, when 12 months didn't find a job then got an extra extended fee. And finally, the third change refers to the conditions for so-called. a permanent fee, and this is due to a change in the Pension Insurance Act. The condition now for that fee is 32 years of internship, and it stops when the terms for retirement are obtained, which then usually means early retirement, so... She could have been disabled. [[You don't understand.]] It is now proposed to be two conditions, so in the 32nd year of internship, but at least 5 years until retirement, so new users could also receive this after obtaining the conditions for early retirement. If the aim of this Pension Insurance Act is, these changes that we previously discussed to detimise people into early retirement, then they must be allowed in that category to remain unemployed so that they can stay at the employment office and receive compensation, and then they can choose whether to retire, or stay in the office, stay in the world of work and receive compensation and eventually get a job. And another change, in terms of middle school employment. In the application of the law, the problem has been observed that mediation for high school employment, that other than them, some private high school is not in itself a problem, but that do not have students and are de facto established and only work interventions. And then the first reading proposal was incorporated into a provision that high school institutions could only do this for their students to solve the problem. However, in the debate that was here in Parliament and on committees, one lack of such a solution was observed practical because not all high schools and all directors had to accept it... so some schools may then not have such a possibility, or students in those schools, so a secondary solution is proposed here, so that schools do so for their students, but that they can also work for schools in the same county and for other students with whom they make an agreement, and at the same time find a compromise solution that would reconcile both problems. [[You don't understand.]] The financial effects of this law, therefore, on the occasion of costs, new costs and savings, are conditionally equated, so the necessary means of extending the fee would be around 150 million kuna, and for this reduction in the fee would be conditional savings, so the reduction in the cost of around 180 kuna, so the difference would be around 30 million kuna. However, the initial cost will arise in this year, given the beginning, if the law came into force on 1.11., given the start of application of the right to extended cash compensation, because now a larger number of people will suddenly get that right. So that's for that cost is estimated at somewhere 18 million kuna. And finally the costs for this change in the conditions for a permanent fee are estimated somewhere at 9 million kuna a year, so much more would be allocated for that purpose. Finally, let me just say the proposals that were not accepted, during the first reading, a proposal has been made to allow craftsmen also to apply the unemployment rights set out in this law. This proposal has not been adopted or incorporated into the final draft of the law, namely it does not comply with the principles and concept of the objectives on which the Employment Intervention Act is based, rights during unemployment. Namely, these prescribed rights are exercised by those workers who have entered that unemployment, or better said, who have become unemployed without their will or guilt, and not by those workers who interrupt employment by their own free will, which is logical. So if the worker quit or is guilty of firing, then there's no right to compensation. There are exceptions now, but it doesn't matter now. Since craftsmen have their own self-employed status and independently decide on the termination of that status and the eventual entry into unemployment are not covered by these rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60372	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we move on to a club debate. The first one was registered by the HNS-HSU club, a respected colleague of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60373	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to be shorter than these 15 minutes, today these discussions on these laws are quite exhausting, but I think they're useful. You know, of course, that the HNS-HSU club, regardless of certain changes that are positive in the second reading of this law, so the Employment Intervention and Rights Act, for the sole reason that one cake is cut into several smaller parts, so because of the reduction in unemployment benefits, I will not give a proposal, I will not give the green light to this bill. What should be commended is that the promoter has accepted the comments of our club regarding the intervention in school employment, and we welcome that. What we have not yet taken advantage of and should be complained about is that it has no longer been networked through the provisions of this law that the pension system and the Employment Service system have not yet been networked, not in terms of the networking of institutions, but in terms of dependence on decision-making in relation to the users of the right. And I have to tell you that I really regret that we have not introduced, and we have had the opportunity, the Institute of Unemployment because at this point we have taken a step forward with this law, we have given it the right to a worker who has remained not guilty of his own business without a job to seek a job and receive compensation, but in view of his height he is demotive because he will probably be given new conditions for early retirement pensions to be greater than this fee. Therefore, I'm afraid that we missed the additional motivation to say ok, if you're looking for a job for two years, if you apply for every retraining seminar or anything organized by the Croatian Employment Service, if you don't find a job then we declare you unemployed and then you no longer have a pension, you go to full retirement. It's a German model that works, they've unconsciously developed these criteria and really that system works. I'm sorry that we didn't take this opportunity through these two laws, but it seems to me that since the laws are well-conceived it won't just go away because there's simply no prerequisite to accept it, so we gave up any amendment in that sense. What, which I still do not rest, regardless of the correct explanation of the legislator of this law regarding contributions from craftsmen. I do not dispute what you have written as an explanation, but I would not find it strange that certain craftsmen continue to pay a contribution to employment as in our society, regardless of what 2.5 years have already been amended rules on compulsory pension and other contributions, it is still considered that the pensioner is still considered if he works to pay all contributions. And that's one large number of employers argues, and we've never bothered to say that if a pensioner is based on a working relationship, he has to cancel his pension, and he has to pay his contributions and all the taxes, that's fine. But if it's a part-time job, then a pensioner can work on an act contract and then he doesn't pay for the contributions. Just as if he was elected to a particular function in politics, even if he is a member of a supervisory board, of a board of directors or of a governing body, we have not worked hard enough to say that this is in some way a cheaping for the employer, and that, in the case of tax returns, the user himself does not have any after-problems. That's why I'm afraid that this information is also possible in this law, and it's also changed that craftsmen are not bonds to pay for employment contributions, but it hasn't all happened yet. Because those people who warned me about it still say they're paying for it. So I'm gonna go over this fact of yours further. However, if something was wrong with the craftsman and the letter I received and which was finally sent to you by the HOK, I would only partially quote him, he says: "According to the legal interpretations of the competent authorities, the craftsman who works in his craft has no working status, i.e. He is not a worker and does not belong to him rights based on unemployment, with this basis, nor rights during unemployment. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce has repeatedly pointed to this inequality of craftsmen compared to the owner of a company operating in its own company and which is often the sole employee of the company. The following HOK suggests that those views be reconsidered and that the craft working in his craft should be recognised as worker status, the status of workers with all the rights and obligations resulting from this. In addition to constitutional provisions, we shall also find a foothold in the provisions of Article 2(3). The law on crafts, according to which work in craftsmanship, a craftsman exercise rights in connection with a working relationship if that right does not exercise on another basis." It's a finished quote. So I'm just taking the opportunity to warn you that everything here is not regulated and it's not completely clear and we're going to have more needs to consider this issue, and I think the craftsmen deserve it because they are one of the more vital parts of the Croatian economy. Therefore, those who are most difficult to surrender under very difficult conditions of business. So once again, I welcome everyone on behalf of the HNS and HSU club, I welcome all the positive changes that took place between the two readings in the draft of this law, but I say we cannot support this because it is primarily about reducing unemployment benefits, or the same cookie is divided into less and less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60374	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate on behalf of SDP's distinguished colleague Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. As well as in the first reading, the SDP club supports one part of the improvement of the law relating to self-mediation in employment. However, we find far more significant reasons not to support this law in any other reading. In fact, this law, as we first pointed out, is merely an expression of the government's senselessness and inability to provide and encourage economic activity and recovery with any excessive measures, as well as the creation of new jobs. This coalition government has passed three times over a year and is amending the Employment and Rights Intervention Act during unemployment. So, already several times, it brings additional uncertainty among those nearly 80,000 people who over the past year have ended up at the Employment Service, and estimates say another 30,000 will be newly unemployed by the end of the year. Furthermore, for the SDP, it is unacceptable that these groups of people who are in the objectively most difficult situation in life are those who will fill the budget gaps and help the government spill from hollow to empty. During the last reduction in the amount of unemployment benefits, it was said that these funds that we reduced the unemployed would be used to preserve other jobs. And that's when it said that 120 million kunas were allocated for that purpose. Watch out for 120 million kunas. And the effect was that a total of 42,000 kuna was spent to preserve the number and letter of 7 jobs. And the question arises where did the estimated 120 million kuna go in the meantime? We say nothing, because there wasn't actually any. There was a pure obsession in that virtual world where this coalition government has survived for many years and it would be funny if it wasn't actually tragic most because of these people who ended up at the Employment Service. Furthermore, it is also unacceptable for the SDP that the problem of the unemployed becomes only their problem, because they are at least guilty because they have found themselves at the institution, because their employer has failed, because they are too old to work and too young to retire, because the education system has trained them for unattractive and unnecessary occupations, because the government is incompetent, because so-called. The economic measures don't work, which is a state-run apparatus that I'm overrule and inert. Because if all this wasn't the case, then I wouldn't believe that you'd read it these days, 110 companies have been waiting for six and more months for one of the departments in charge not to grant them state aid, but just answers, do they have the right to help because of the difficulties they've been having in business, because of the economic crisis in our country, in the world, etc. more than 6 months of 110 companies together with their employees are only waiting for an answer whether they are right or not. And we're wondering in the SDP if anyone in the government is wondering how many employees from these companies have been in these last year and in those six months of waiting for answers ended up at the Employment Service? And the only thing waiting for them there is every few months a further reduction in the amount of compensation. Or does anyone wonder why he's taking so long to decide if he's going to, for example? Shipyards go to privatisation or they won't, and then who's gonna be to blame when these workers end up on the labour market? According to the government, it turns out they'll be on their own, and then they should be punished further. And we're sure in the SDP that the prime minister won't come before those workers at the time to say I'm the biggest unionist in this country. Or Kamensky, whether someone will gossip from the government that is allowed not to pay contributions, which is allowed to stall so much with bankruptcy and finally that someone was too lazy or thought it was not necessary to verify how and in what way all these months the incentive funds that they received and the owners of Kamensky are spent. Furthermore, for the SDP, it is unacceptable for this law to be based on reason, too, to read on one cynical finding that when they end up on the stock market that they are in fact relatively comfortable, that they are not actually trying to find a job, that they do not want to be educated, that they do not want to be requalified, so that they will be taken from the fee, they will be forced to reactivate them in some way, and not to make more money on some grey economy. And the explanation says that for that purpose, the workers, these unemployed, will actually receive a thousand thousand kn scholarships. That's what it says in the explanation. But it doesn't say anywhere where it's going to stand in the budget. Is this gonna be some kind of scholarship fund, a grant fund for the unemployed? How much is this scholarship fund going to be? How many million kunas are we going to waste again like I used to name those 120 million kunas? Or it will be these 80 million kunas that are planned to be saved by detiming people into early retirement, and if we know at the same time, it is finally said, that our pension system is almost before collapse. I'd say like this on behalf of the club that it seems to us that those virtual let's say that 80 million kunas will end up as well as those 120 million kunas, in the abyss of the budget hole, unfortunately, and we'll never know what and what those funds were spent on, actually, if there were any. Furthermore, in the SDP, we wonder what this measure is, in fact, retraining, schooling, additional education, etc. A new measure. What's the new one? In fact, we are through the Employment Service today, and that should also be said, we have a series of measures that in one way or another encourage the unemployed of various categories and given the age, gender, the duration of unemployment, etc. This appropriation is intended to cover: And what exactly is with those programs, or are they really what they are now? new programs to be scholarshipd with 1600 kuna. We in the SDP believe that there should be no money to be said once honestly, this is a way that of those who don't have enough more and more to try to patch something up anyway. And stop making more illusions about people, in this case of the unemployed, that even this bill and now these measures will actually help them get back to the market, to reactivate. And then it looks like the government will welcome them with open arms on the labour market, and we're asking what kind of labour market, what jobs, how many new jobs, how many new jobs this coalition government is responsible for. For which professions will be requalified in total, say 61% of those unemployed who at the Employment Office have medium professional equipment, of which 34% have a certain qualification. For which professions they will be requalified, and for which jobs they will be trained and what jobs they will be welcomed by. The lost jobs are unfortunately lost, and to create conditions for the preservation of existing jobs, and especially for the creation of new jobs, it takes far greater abilities and far more serious intentions than those which unfortunately serve us on a daily basis by this coalition government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60376	Thank you. We have three reports of correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Boris Kunst. Here you go, colleague Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60377	Thank you very much. My colleague Sobol said that the problem of unemployment becomes their problem, that the government doesn't care. I'm sorry that colleague Sobol here spoke in a political dictionary all the time not really looking back on this law and these measures that are currently offering education, qualifications, requalifications, etc. to in some ways encourage unemployed people to get better and find their place easier on the labour market. Well, that's commendable, fellow Sobol. You know in 2002 that with 400,000 unemployed, the number dropped to 350,000 when your party was in the coalition. During the night you brought.../The speaker went off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60378	Comrade Kunst, correct the quote and there will be opportunity for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60379	Comrade Sobol, you've brought such measures that you've reduced overnight from 400 grand to 350 thousand unemployed so they've been so restrictive that you've introduced that if they don't report twice, they're deleted from the records. You stalked the unemployed, controlled them at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60380	I'm warning you, let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60381	So that's how you've been reducing unemployment, and you're not because I can't give you a replica when.../The speaker's turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60382	Comrade Kunst, we should say we're correcting it and then correct it. So this is how we replicate and then throw ourselves away and move away from the subject, etc. A colleague named Neda Klaric reported on the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mrs. Sobol says these people will help the government push from hollow to empty. That's incorrect, Mrs. Sobol. This is incorrect precisely because this law protects the elderly unemployed by means of a cash compensation to employment, and the younger with a certain duration of cash compensation stimulates additional education, labour activation and employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60384	Thank you very much. And colleague Gyurjica twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60385	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the incorrect allegations and the claim made by Mrs Sobol when she claims that this government has no solution and that she does not understand in which way and where she will invest funds for requalification. Well, here's only one piece of information, probably that's what she knows. It was recently published in the media. The tourism ministry and Minister Bajs have just presented the school for the requalification of people in tourism and it is for chefs, receptionists and the project of the Ministry of Tourism has invested 30 million kunas, Mrs Sobol and believe me, there were at least 60 people who passed that school. More of them go that number and they all find their job. One part will find it in the facilities of continental tourism, one part will find it in the sea and are very happy that our hotels will have our receptionists, chefs, waiters and they have requalified it. So this government has a program just needs to monitor it, it needs to have the strength to face the truth that you don't, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60386	Thank you. A colleague, Boris Kunst, has applied and will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60387	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. At least now I can't shut me down. I think I know about who's shutting down, my cameraman, but good. As regards this final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Law, the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of Croatia and these amendments and additions to the Law are part of the part of the programme of the Republic of Croatia's economic recovery and is proposed by several important issues, and must first and foremost be brought into line with the new Labour Act and the amended Pension Insurance Act. In addition to more specifically regulating the issue of intervention for the occasional work of regular students in the country, which can be carried out by a high school institution, but in the future only for their students or based on written agreement with other secondary institutions in the same county, as well as the harmonisation of terminology with the Labour Law in terms of the possibility of vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship. This legislative proposal proposes that the cash compensation at the Employment Office is 70 % in the first 90 days, and for the remaining time 35 % of the base which is determined as the average of the billing salary reduced for contributions to compulsory insurance achieved during the three-month period preceding the termination of the employment relationship. So the fee is determined by the height of the salary. This would seem like this in practice, if those workers with a salary of 6000, for example, 618 kuna, which is the basis for calculating some 5294 kunas would receive a cash compensation of HRK 3706 for the first three months of unemployment, and 1853 kuna for the rest of the period. Workers entering unemployment with minimum wage would receive a fee of 1575.84 kuna in the first three months, and the remaining time is currently €1125.60 and this is exactly the paper introduced into this law, guaranteed the minimum amount of compensation and which is bound by 50% of the minimum wage reduced to contributions to compulsory insurance. The aim of this measure is to protect the existential safety of unemployed persons and to stimulate the unemployed who are registered at the Croatian Employment Service to engage in educational activities that will raise the employability of education to acquire professional skills on the labour market. An unemployed person who would be involved in educational activities will receive financial assistance at the level of an untaxable scholarship now amounting to 1600 kn. And it's very important to say that in fact all those who are jobless, and I think it would be good to be educated for new skills on the labour market, that they will receive an untaxable scholarship of 1600 kn. But the problem is next. So far, educational activities through the Croatian Employment Service are not enough in relation to the needs of the acquisition of these professional skills. So for example, we have the last three years of data, so 2008/2010. the years for the needs of the labour market in these three years have all been included in the educational activities of 9380 people which I hold very little. Only 2236 persons have been included in the known employer, and this cooperation programme with local and regional self-government units has yet to be included in 2008. 1365 people, and in 2009, only 347 people. This is in principle an indication that local and regional self-government units do not worry too much about helping their fellow citizens who are at the Employment Office, yes and through these means local programs where they would know very well what educational needs are best in these regions and areas they don't care much about and that's one problem. Otherwise, in European Union countries, education for the labour market is in fact the main tool of employment policy. Education programmes for the labour market today can also be a transitional period for many people who have lost that job. The time spent in unemployment can also be replaced by the time spent in education during which new skills will be acquired and new skills for new jobs will be adopted, but it can also strengthen the confidence that is often lagging behind in people who are jobless. This legislative proposal proposes the possibility of extending the right to cash compensation from one to four months for persons in long-term unemployment, and to remind myself so far there was no such possibility. It's also one of the measures that's being introduced here as a new one. To this end, the objective is to further ensure an existential minimum for long-term unemployed persons, which are, which are long-term unemployed persons. Well, these are the ones that have been on the record of the Employment Office for more than 12 months and if the person has made full use of the established right to regular cash compensation. An application for extended cash compensation rights should be submitted to an unemployed person within 30 days of the expiry of the established right. The amount of the extended payment shall be determined at 35% of the base of the salary for the calculation of the payment fee, but shall not exceed 35% of the average salary paid in the economy of the Republic of Croatia for the previous year. For reasons of compliance with the Pension Insurance Act, the conditions for remuneration for employment are changed, and some call it a permanent fee. According to the current legal solution, the financial compensation for employment is made by an unemployed person who spent more than 32 years working. Data show that currently 54.4% of such users are paid for employment and that they belong to an age group up to 54 years of age. And these individuals are relatively younger and could still contribute to the world of work. We have examples where they enter unemployment with less than 50 years of life and receive a permanent cash tax to an age pension of up to 65 years. And such persons are reluctant to enter these programs for the acquisition of new work skills, for new jobs because they have been demotised in view of the fulfilled condition of 32 years at work. And that is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes an additional condition for such a person to add a new condition to his work with 32 years, which is that she is still missing those five years until the conditions for obtaining age pension rights are met. And this measure actually protects older unemployed people while younger unemployed people are stimulated for additional education programmes through the Employment Office. This measure will result in a longer retention of persons on the labour market, but there will also be an increase in the number of unemployed. The increase will result in a reduction in the right to early retirement at the Institute, and on average is deleted from the unemployment records of about 7,000 people per year who acquire the right to early retirement, and 57% of them are using the right to cash compensation for employment, i.e. a permanent cash fee. It should also be noted that the costs of staying at the Employment Office for such persons are significantly lower than those incurred by retirement, and there is also the possibility of new employment. It is estimated that due to the increase in users of the permanent cost fee in 2011, I think the secretary spoke about it somewhere around 9 million kuna, but savings in the pension system will be around 17 million kuna. The total cost for 5 years is estimated to be about 45 million, would be around 45 million kuna, and the pension system savings for the same period would be 180 million kuna. Well then, I see no reason not to see colleagues from the SDP how positive this law is, and precisely for these reasons, and the positiveness of the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60388	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate, no more club registrations. My first call came from a colleague named Dragutin Lesar. I can't see him, he's gone. He's losing his right. Second colleague Nenad Stazic. Also, he's gone. My colleague, Nadica Jelash. She's here. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60389	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for the amendments to this Employment Intervention and Refund Act, i.e. the unemployment rights, is in fact the one chaos on the labour market in Croatia, conditioned by the general contraction of economic activity. Mass layoffs result in a dynamic reduction in the number of employees, but also an even more intense increase in the number of unemployed. When it comes to unemployment, particular concerns are caused by data on the scales of precisely long-term unemployment. The share of unemployed who were in that status for more than one year, for example at the end of August this year was over 51%, so each other unemployed in unemployment records is actually longer than a year. The additional problem with this problem is that they are long-term unemployed and also lower education levels and more life-cycles. It is, therefore, that we could say freely permanently about permanent unemployable persons. And now the question is how does the Croatian government plan to solve this problem? In view of the large inflow of unemployed in the record of the Employment Service, and the great financial burden for the budget of the Government, of course and here resorts to what it does best, so cutting fees. The truth after the first reading of the bill has been adopted some of the comments made in the debate, and included as improvements in the final text of the law, but what remains unacceptable and has not changed in this final text is that, at the end of the first 90 days of the application of the 70 % fee, the average rate of salary is reduced by 50% in the last 3 months prior to obtaining unemployment status, and the reduction for contributions, so the compensation in the next period is reduced by 50%. Therefore, despite the fact that the proposed changes also provide the minimum amount of that minimum wage, so it cannot be lower than 50% of the minimum wage, the fact remains that the unemployment benefits will be half as low and the most hypocritical in the whole story is that the government expects that this drastic reduction of the fee will stimulate the unemployed low-level education to be educated and that they themselves are looking for a job. So despite some of the repairs that have been made in the final text, this law remains unacceptable for us because of this social insensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60390	Thank you very much. The following has been registered for discussion by a distinguished colleague, Sunchana Glavak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Madam Director. So Croatia, like most countries as we know it, is implementing passive and active measures to mitigate unemployment, but also to improve the position of those without a job. I will refer specifically to the part relating to the rights to the achievement of the cash compensation. This amendment refers to the duration of the cash compensation, which in the first 90 days would be 70%, and for the remaining 35% of the base which is determined as the average of the billing salary, minus the contributions for compulsory insurance achieved during the three-month period preceding the termination of the employment relationship, we also heard from the secretary of state, at this point that is the amount of $125. If we are talking about the structure of the unemployed, among which, unfortunately, the lowest levels of education and which account for the low wages that follow that structure, it is good that the proposed measures will in particular stimulate their inclusion in educational activities. Thus, in case a person decides to receive financial aid for such a measure, not a fee that will be in the amount of an untaxable scholarship, it now amounts to a thousand 600 kunas. An active employment policy or an active labour market policy covers a whole series of measures aimed at directly employing the unemployed or increasing their employment. Active measures of employment, education, retraining or qualifications in professional training also improve the qualification structure of jobseekers, which also enhances their professional mobility, so to speak the possibility of employment. It also helps the unemployed to make more meaningful use of the time of unemployment and to protect themselves from acquired knowledge and abilities. Suitable educational programmes are also trying to prevent possible unemployment, i.e. further harmonize offer and job demand. In addition to professional training in many countries, other measures are being taken, for example, to highlight various social psychological measures, to reduce the difficulties caused by long-term unemployment, which is particularly dangerous because it often conditions poverty and social exclusion. I would like to remind you that this year, more than 170 million kuna has been provided for these measures. I would also like to remind myself of the national employment promotion plan, so here are new information about the Croatian Employment Service, and this new data from the Croatian Employment Office, a total of 421 persons were employed in September of this year. We have to point out in particular, I will point out the example of Međimurje County, Varazdin County, Krapina-Zagorje County, which is the three counties where there is a decline in unemployment, in which also good results were obtained by the National Employment Programme, through which, for example, 500 persons were employed in Međimurje County, and of which I will mention 90 members of the Roma national minority. And also, we have to say for September what happens when I'm talking about people of the Roma national minority, as much as 27% is a woman. The new draft law provides on the labour market or in the record of HZZ for all unemployed persons to be entitled to retirement. According to first year estimates, this will result in 7,000 more unemployed, and in 5 years 35 thousand. Under the new law, a permanent pension will only be paid to those who have until retirement for 5 years. Not to repeat myself, and I think you know that we have already heard that changes are similar in some other EU countries. Therefore, unemployment benefits are the main part of the Support Programme for the unemployed, but not the most important part of the programme for reviving the labour market and increasing the employment rate. The law also encourages the state's responsibility towards fiscal policy and helps the elderly to receive benefits from new employment, which is better than encouraging early retirement. For all these reasons, I will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60392	Thank you very much, colleague. We have a single reported replica, a distinguished colleague of the Iron Flego. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60393	My dear colleagues, you were talking about an appropriate educational programme that needs to be reduced by unemployment. We believe that the programme, the educational programme, is almost extremely inappropriate and we have at least 3 reasons to do so. First, it is inappropriate because lifelong learning in Croatia is reduced to adult education which is no longer a European category. Secondly, it is inappropriate because a whole series of programmes from lifelong learning are not accredited but are actually private and regardless of having the right of the public not to be recognized on the labour market and actually do not fall within that qualification that will be covered by the national qualification framework and we still have a terrible fight with the modular education system, and this means this: if I am an autolimar, and I want to be an autoelectricist, I should lay down only 2 or 3 differential modules, and not go back to auto-literating. And you finally have one almost paradoxical situation where we educate people for the unknown needs of the labour market while, say, Scandinavian countries and developed European countries, along with lifelong learning for the right profession, have additional self-employment modules. So it's almost gone with us at all. And in addition to this, all of a sudden preparing actual labour force for the international labour market that is increasingly present, in developed countries you have intensive learning of foreign languages, world languages, there is also no such thing, especially if you specialize in foreign language, but if I specialize in being an autolimar, I don't have the ability to learn a foreign language unless I pay for it myself. So, in regular lifelong learning for proper professions, you don't have this component, as I said self-employment and learning of world languages. So it's all expensive in our court quite inappropriate, especially that no quality program costs more than 1600 kuna but several times that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60394	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll start with my colleague first. I'll start with this last one. So we have a program for learning foreign languages, which is exactly what it's aimed at. In part, she said something about it and a colleague through the Ministry of Tourism is that, so we're talking about it the same way. Information education, too. As far as the programme is concerned, it is accredited to those who are legal, and I believe that the system of lifelong education is valuable, of course it is always subject to change, that it is always subject to that that we want it to be even better, but it can never be perfect. Anyway, we're talking about 1600 kunas, not costing a program, but a scholarship that is now being received by a person who is unemployed, who wants to decide on such a measure. So we're not saying it costs that much of the program, but I said that's the amount that a person will get for a scholarship now. There are much more expensive requalification programs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60396	Thank you. The following has been registered for discussion by distinguished counterpart Romana Jerkovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law concerning a huge number of people who, I would say, are not with their own guilt existentially endangered and socially marginalized. I repeat, not by my fault, because I'm sure nobody goes to the labour market because they want it because he likes it, and it's really crazy to believe that a man wants to be on the record of the poor, the overweight and the rejected. It's clear as day that there's not enough money in the register. It's clear as day that there's no money missing for that army of unemployed. Clearly, the number of newly unemployed is increasing from day to day. The number of unemployed for more than a year in the total number registered at the end of last year was as much as 45%. That's a scary number. It is clear that at the level of the year, the State Employment Exchange will lack at least 40% of the funding for unemployment benefits, i.e. for so many markets should exceed the budget. And of course the water came to the throat and the money was gone without new duties. And then what are we doing? So we take where we can, take where it's at, I'd say the simplest. To those who are justifiably the most endangered category is the easiest way to transfer a part of the crisis. It's not fair, but if you don't know a different way, it's understandable to reach for what's left of you. However, this very policy of short-term measures that only put out the fire has led us to the limits of endurance. How, colleagues and colleagues, do you support reducing unemployment benefits? How do they support the idea that they finance themselves in some way, not in some way, that they finance their own education, or retraining? Because that's actually it. We'll take them from one side, cut them off, but we'll give them the possibility of a scholarship of 1600 kunas, as much as it is. We can figure out what the scenario is right now. So we give less money to the unemployed under the pretenses that that money goes into their education, and on the other hand, it is likely that such criteria will come up with that money that no one will get it. Or no one will eventually want to take it because it won't be enough for him to do what he needs, and he doesn't have enough to add it yet. And in the end, where will he get a job? So we're asking him for extra extra money, and for what perspective? What does the labour market offer? And every day, a hundred people lose their jobs. You really need to be in some superoptimist class that you're unemployed to be in charge because it won't be enough for you to be further educated for what. So there is no other way we need to look the truth into our eyes and admit that we simply do not have adequate measures, successful measures of economic recovery or active employment policy. And to make this a little bit clearer what I'm talking about, I'm going to try to further explain so that I can divide the unemployed into three groups. In the first group, it's the ones that educated I'd say are looking for a first job. So they were educated by this society knowing in advance that they wouldn't find a job. Therefore, the solution requires systematic measures which I agree will not give rapid results but should be triggered. On the other hand, there are measures that can produce rapid results and these measures have nothing to do with the level of social gross product. It is simply a matter of courage to implement a package of measures that would enable the inclusion of this army of unemployed in the world of work, not slaved or better said by applying what is already known in the world. Well, we don't have to make up hot water all the time. Volunteering, work at home, temporary and occasional employment, work week reduction, participation in activities of civil society organisations, social and health care, etc. So, like I said, you don't need to invent hot water. It is important to see how the developed countries have managed to solve it in a good way. So there's a lot of examples and there's a lot of experience, and all we have to do is reach out to them. The other group are unemployed who have lost their job, not by their own fault, but by bad politics, poor management. These are the same ones who are lords, those who conduct politics, so the government is now cutting back on them, so that in some ways it may be worse for them. The solution is simple, of course, easy to pronounce. The solution is to create new jobs, the solution is to encourage new development projects. The condition is that when you make a decision on development projects, you must also base your decisions on the potentials that this society has in the population, in its citizens. And unfortunately, it's rare for us that our development projects have nothing to do with the fact that for these projects we simply don't have people to work in. So who are they meant for, who are they made for, and who do they need them for? Who needs a policy that's not at the service of citizens who don't work for citizens who work against them? And the third group, I'd say they're unemployed, hard-working or unemployed, who, most often because of their age, can't find a job. The truth is they have many years, but in society, we often don't seem to know that it's not a handicap. Because years mean both life experience and work experience. And these are some countries that are very well mostly those that fall into more developed recognitions. It's what Japan did, it's what Sweden did, it's what Germany did. Ironically, these countries were developed among other things and because in full sense the words used all their demographic potentials. So, colleagues and colleagues, what we would expect instead of such a single law, is a whole policy with measures that must be divided into short-term measures that give results in the medium term and ultimately those that solve this whole issue in the long term. So if that's what I said in my first reading debate, if we give up almost half a million people and leave them on the edges of social life and development, then I wonder what kind of chance as a society as a whole we have? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60398	Thank you very much. We have three corrections, two replicas. Let's go first with the corrections of our distinguished colleague, Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, after this pathetic speech of yours, your colleague, Stazic, is not equal to you, so none of the students would graduate from colleges anymore, nor would those people who lost their jobs start looking for work again, nor would they go back to being requalified. They'd say no.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60400	Correct your twilight colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60401	The correction of the incorrect quote is not true that there are no programs and there are no interested in this Croatia and it is not true that people do not find work in this way and it is not true that everything is as black and pathetic as you say it is. But that's how you have to do it, and we understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60402	Thank you. A fellow Boris Kunst rectification of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60403	Thank you very much. A colleague, Jerkovic, said that the unemployed are funding their own education. I don't know where she read it. She obviously didn't read this law that we're discussing here today. But I'm going to remind you of my colleague, Jerkovic, when I listen to you and your great grief voiced by the reduction of this fee to the unemployed who normally touched me, I wonder where you were when we asked the SDP for three years to raise the fee from 900 to 1,000 kuna to the unemployed. It took us three years for the Minister of Labour, and then, with his compassion, he raised 100 fees to the unemployed. I think he heard you then that he'd be safe sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60404	A distinguished colleague colleague of Gordana Sobol called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60406	I'm going in a row about how someone signed up because we're not supposed to be together. Here you go, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60407	So I think there are a few problems about this law. First, and when we look at the first reading and now at this, the secretary of state did not give a reply, we were more involved in that debate at first reading, but also today, as is now new about the program that will be scholarshipd from those 1600 kunas compared to those programs of prequalification, requalification, education for courses etc. Which we have now, or maybe we don't have anymore. No one answered that. No one answered that. By the way of the Employment Service, the principal's here, maybe she's helping with that answer. Does this mean that we will also have these so far programmes that have gone through active employment policies plus those that we will finance with these scholarships or are pushing each other. What it's really about and what it's all about now is so many newspapers since we've had these specific programs for years. Do we have enough money for them, did we accomplish everything we planned this year with those programs? That's the problem, and we didn't get answers here today or last time. And once again we need to point out, and we all here stress, it's as absurd as the last reduction in unemployment benefits that the unemployed are actually funding themselves this time, we're cutting their fees, and last time we cut their fees because we said that other jobs would be preserved. So what do we get, seven jobs saved in a year? So let's just be serious and then we're still complaining that we don't see in the long run, we're shortsighted or I don't know what. So get a little serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60408	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60409	Comrade Sobol, I agree with you of course. Not only do we not get answers to our questions, but as you have now claimed, it would be best to keep our mouths shut. The budget is packed with holes, the leaks everywhere, the money is gone, sometimes it happens that the prime minister and admits it, but when we as an opposition here talk about it then at least we are state enemies number one. I don't understand why it's like that because when I'm discussing, when I believe I'm saying the bad things I see, like I'm going to commend the good things when I see them. The current situation in the country is bad, the money is gone. We take money from the unemployed. To close our eyes before that, I don't know what you expect from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60410	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague of the Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60411	My colleague Jerkovic, unfortunately I agree with you that the first and sadly large groups of people who are unemployed are young who have finished, who cannot get a job and who do not need anyone. These young unemployed, unfinished on the one hand, are the consequences of the government's economic macroeconomic policy, and on the other hand they are the result of a completely inappropriate education system. We've been yelling for six years that you can't educate people by the Bologna process by the old nomenclature of occupation. We educate people first-timers who get a higher level of expertise that is nowhere in Europe and that is not recognised anywhere in Croatia. At universities, we educate teachers or teachers who receive professional training, not university, and then they're out of work because they can't get a job, my people. It's an inadequate education system. We don't have from lifelong learning almost one serious programme for higher education, and if we have it then it's an additional study that lasts 6 months, 12 months, which is neither modulated nor adapted to humans, nor are they dealing with it in the way it is handled in Europe. One college half a year, another college half a year, etc. We have chemical engineers and biology that haven't been educated in 20, 25 years, my people. And today at Harvard, when biology, electronics or chemistry is enrolled, then they are told colleagues and colleagues what you will end today when you finish your studies will no longer be scientific truth. So that's the problem. Forgive me for the professional deformity of insisting on education all the time, but this education system is completely inadequate for us, the more we are educated for the future, for what will come to us and the educated need to drag us there, not for the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60412	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60413	Comrade Flego, you're right you can't be anymore. But the problem you're talking about still seems to have not escalated. We unfortunately see things and recognize them as a problem when we get to the limit of endurance, when everything is shooting at seams. Only then, as a society as a whole, do we realize how big a problem it is. This isn't the first time, and it certainly isn't the last thing to warn us about some good intentions. Unfortunately, very often you don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60414	Thank you. And we still have one correction, distinguished colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, even though it's been corrected by this inaccuracies, I'm going to repeat it in this law. You told your colleagues, the unemployed are funding themselves, and in some ways they should be in charge, as you say, so they can finance their education, which is not true. This fee, indeed, from 1600 kuna, will primarily serve those who are lower education levels to be educated, but I'd say, I don't like to use that word, in a way and force them to engage in education. Maybe we could say that to the employment department representatives. Most of the time, these people are very hard to get involved in education, I won't tell them to, but in a way, I'm going to do it. They're having a hard time deciding on education. Your example is the mass of women who do not have a certain qualification but primary school. I know an example of where the Employment Service has offered a whole series of programmes in this fostering active employment. But women don't accept it. They don't want to go to education. It's like a burden to them. Maybe this measure, and I believe it will encourage younger people, younger people, and we still have a lot of them that don't graduate from high school education, to qualify for occupation through these measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60416	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Honorable counterpart Petar Mlinaric has applied. Here's your colleague, Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear principal, secretary of state with your associates. The reduction of cash compensation at first sight may seem to be a blow to the standard of persons in the most difficult position. We're all aware that we'd like to work on a well-paid job, and if by any chance we lose it to take good care of ourselves for the rest of our lives. We are aware of what is happening in Croatia and in the whole world. The reduction in the duration of the fee should be seen on the other hand. It's important that we all change the way we see someone else taking care of us, and that we see ourselves only the victims of bad circumstances. It is known that in life otherwise, even when it comes to employment, one is much faster able to find a job but also to keep a job. It is known that in life otherwise, employment is a much faster way of finding a job, and others need to keep a job. When it comes to unemployed people, given the difficult situation they are in, it is necessary to take the initiative and responsibility to resolve their status to a greater extent than is the case so far. Following activities and individual institutions can conclude that the Employment Service is one of those who is really trying to help the unemployed more quickly find their place in the world of work. We know that many activities are constantly organised, such as numerous counselling, information, working groups, organise and call for job fairs, organise days of careers for students and students, have days of open doors of the Institute, give through the Government's programme to encourage employment support for employers for the employment and education of persons, refer people to education, public works, do selections for employers, work professionally to guide students and unemployed. It is precisely because of the professional orientation in Croatia that we have the lowest percentage of dropouts in secondary education of 3.9% compared to the average of the European Union countries of 14.4 which, in its 2020 strategy, wants to reduce that share to 10% maximum. It is something we should be proud of and many developed European countries would like to have this situation with them. But no one can do much alone, and neither can the Institute if the economy does not create jobs, and neither does the economy and the Institute together if the person himself does not show a permanent interest in learning, retraining and retraining for faster employment. We hear about full learning all the time. It is not a floscula, but our reality, and we all need to accept that regardless of the schools completed, we must constantly learn to create a better chance of new employment and survival in the current workplace. I would like to add, in the end, to this law that long-term unemployed are allowed to extend the right to cash compensation thus showing the sensitivity of this government to the most vulnerable groups. Allow me, Mr. Vice President, to read a brief letter sent by the employees of the city administration of Vukovar, because as a representative from Vukovar, this letter was sent to all state institutions by unscheduled seniors. These are the people who created the Croatian state, went through all the horrors both as defenders and as children defenders. It's about point 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Employment Intermediation Supplements. Dear Mr. Mlinarich! Since you are a member of the largest party in our city that advocates the rights of defenders, as well as of all citizens, who participate in the city council, and from whose ranks you are also running for the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, we consider it appropriate to introduce you to the situation in the city administration of Vukovar, where respect for the rights of employees and rights of defenders and their families is questioned. In the last few months in the city administration, Vukovar has been the topic of a new system of job and administration reorganisation in order to increase the efficiency and proper orientation of employees' competences, even an organised conference involving representatives of cities from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Those who were skeptical of the proposed reorganisation were declared brakers to adapt the city to European standards. Does Vukovar have to carry out this reorganisation first besides other problems until more developed cities are in no hurry. In great secrecy, a group of similar employees who agreed to be the Mayor of Saba, Željko Saboa, either did suspicious tasks or bought them by assigning them apartments or threatened to quit or hired family members. She made the final proposal for systematicisation in this act, leaving out seven jobs, six jobs where high-level experts worked, workers and one job with medium professional training. We'll be specific. In the city administration of Vukovar there is no room for the following people: Renato Šimac, graduated architect, former head of the Management Department for the municipal economy and city planning, Croatian defender, 9 months camper of Serbian concentration camps. Mr. Stimac was with me, and I had the honour of being with him in a camp full of nine months. Stajic, Mitrovica and Alexine. Branka Žuvic, a graduate lawyer, is about 30 years old somewhere, and she is the secretary of the city of Vukovar for 12 years. Pavica Pilkovac, a graduate lawyer, former head of the Municipality of Bogdanovci, 10 years head of the Management Department for City Property Management and Housing Affairs. Her father disappeared in the Homeland War and was never found. Navie Benaković, professor in Croatian, expert cultural associate of the Management Department for Social Activity, a child of Croatian defenders and campers, 6 months in the camp. Igor Antolovic, a graduate lawyer at the Department of City Property Management and Housing Affairs. The child of the late Croatian defender. Zlatko Keglević professor and former head of the Management Department for Social Activities. And Boris Barja, city documentary, archivist, photographer, child of the deceased defender. All of us have received a solution to make available without any explanation and our jobs have been added to the job description of some other employees regardless of their expertise and regardless of the scope of the jobs we have done. At the same time, in the new systematization, the mayor of some mid-professional staff awarded a solution and a coefficient for higher secondary professional equipment, while several employees more professionally prepared the solution... in high professional training, which is a reward for obedience or purchase... [[You don't understand.]] Because there are several awards of that very nationality. [[You don't understand.]] Since the beginning of his term, the mayor has raised his salary 62% and about 75% to his deputies. Oh... The mayor of behavior could also say something, often violates the law on smoking in the offices of the city's administration, and no one dares to report what he says about the will, violation of the law and the horrors that this man... [[You don't understand.]] , jobs are directed to... [[You don't understand.]] employees with completed catering, commercial, textile school, secondary police school completed in Banja Luka, and course in Sweden, and ignores professional and experienced people who are often considered undesirable for various private reasons. [[You don't understand.]] Some of their listeners were hired shortly after the elections they were elected, they were reorganized by an old internal order rule, and among them is an employee who graduated from the Banja Luka Police School and a course in Sweden. At the joint meetings of all employees, the mayor swears, vulgarly expresses himself, and on the humiliation of the high professional training of the employees in such a way as to schedule them to count the ambrosia in the parking lot, that we do not speak, our position and authority... He also used to intimidate employees by calling for witnesses to court because of his family problems. [[You don't understand.]] There is also a video of the unsuitable behavior of the mayor towards an employee who is not included in the list of excesses, who can be counted as sexual abuse. If it is not our country's desire to encourage young people to higher education, it would be reasonable to seek to create administration as many highly educated people as possible, or perhaps it is justified to bring the entire administration in line with the degree of education of the mayor himself. And finally, I hope you conclude from all of this that we have a reason to be revolutionized, and we ask you to help, in the context of your abilities, in order to respect the rights and empowerment of the rule of law, which is trying to prevent illegal actions, to assist the Ministry of Administration's inspection in a hasty manner to monitor the acts adopted and to ensure that the injustice that has been done to us is corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60418	Thank you. It's not exactly in the context of lawmaking, but it's certainly in the context of law enforcement, because of these names and storage we've heard,... What Prof. [[You don't understand.]] Flego says now we have to choose what we think. Who's there for... And who for lifelong learning, but those are fates, they're not easy or easy. [[You don't understand.]] They're not just that in the middle. We've also reported four replicas. First of all, dear colleague Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what was sad to hear, but that's how the visionary SDP government does, when it does, a little bit of power in Vukovar, won't stay for long. But I wanted to go back to this program, but considering, here's a colleague who encouraged me because he's from the county that's waving agricultural, I'm sorry there's no one here from the SDSS club from Slavonia. It's about defense cooperatives. In 2004, when Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, then, encouraged the establishment of defence cooperatives, were two. People laughed, they laughed at everyone, they laughed at what you need, you don't need it, but today we have 336 defense cooperatives that employs more than, we have 3,000 cooperatives in these cooperatives, 3,000 and 400 people working in cooperatives, and their families totaling 8 grand. So these people just appeared on self-employment projects, in competitions, they got funding, they founded cooperatives, in production, they produce over 407, 410 tons of raw materials today. It means pickles, agricultural products. They passed those schools of respected colleagues and colleagues to educate themselves for vegetables, for medlars, for fruit trees, for the production of medicinal herbs. They came in. ... It's an olive. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Depends on where they are. To come to a position today that these products have specific contracts with the houses where they place it and sell it, they've been hired, this government has made it possible for them, the visionation of a vice president at the time you were making fun of, and today you want to say that there is no vision, and you will never be able to admit it to yourself, but that is, and what's most important is that it's really one of the more concrete measures that results, and you need to admit it, and you can laugh at colleagues and colleagues as much as you want, but you can't, and you can't, because you can laugh, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60420	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60421	My colleagues agree with you. It's strange that our mayor, by the time he arrived, had just received about 5.6 middle-professional staff or more from Sweden, some of them, to eventually fire highly skilled people. And we warned that he had a general incompetence... PTSD, but it's nobody's, but now it's reflected, but unfortunately what it is, well, thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60422	Thank you. A prominent colleague, Marija Lugaric, also applied for the replica. Here you go, Comrade Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60423	My dear colleague, you were talking about education programs. I think there are some things that need to be demystified. A one-time fee under this law for education programmes is a thousand 600 kuna. I ask you what a man can pay himself with a thousand 600 kunas? What program? Here's a quick search on the Internet. If someone wants to, like, become a driver and get a category, B category of driving license, that course costs him 5 grand 735 kuna. For example, in one smaller place of preparation for master exams, therefore not training, but just preparation for passing exams, watch out for which interests autoelectrician, autolimar, mechanic, locksmith, hairdresser, klesar, fursman, limar, etc., milkman, beekeeper and so on, 3 thousand 200 kuna. How much for all the courses. Or, for example, in one of the most respected institutions for adult dactylograph education, computer operator for text entry 4 thousand 261 kuna, bookkeeper 4 thousand 261 kuna, if we go to some more advanced to say so, I don't know a specialist for digital video installation 9 thousand, graphic design is 6 thousand kuna, etc. So even the simplest professions cross the amount of this one-time scholarship, all the prices I've told you as a one-time payment. Prices are a few times higher if they're paid for the wars.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60424	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60425	A colleague of 1,500 kunas is not something to you, but for one werewolf, one part of a large one-third of the werewolves means a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60426	Thank you. We're moving on with the replicas. My colleague Bozica Šolić has applied. Here you go, Mrs. Solic. ... Comrade Lugaric, you have used your time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Solic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I didn't want to yell at you as you are now getting used to in the assembly, and I didn't mean to report for the line, but really this listening to MP Mlinarić when he was writing this letter to all the institutions, and I stayed appalled by my representative, but I think she should be amazed at this letter and these facts and by the representative Jerkovic because she led her entire debate astounded because here... Because here is a ruthless cleanup of the SDP mayors of those people who created the Croatian state, who submitted the greatest sacrifices for the creation of the Croatian state. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's funny to you, fellow Members, but it's a reality in Vukovar, and we should take it more seriously and call on the responsibility of our mayor for what he's doing. These aren't people or hairdressers like you mentioned today, or automaritimers as you mentioned, these are the people economists graduated, lawyers graduates that they're waiting for a place on the labour market today. From day to day, I've been listening to you hiring by party membership. What are you doing in Vukovar? What are you doing in Vukovar? What's your mayor doing in Vukovar? You're hiring people of lower education, low education, but they're similar. That way the city of Vukovar certainly won't succeed in the future. And it is a shame for you to do so on those people who have endured the greatest suffering for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60428	Thank you. A fellow Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60429	My fellow Members, I have also read this letter that we must do something that our defenders, the children of the defenders, the campers and those children who do not know have not yet found their loved ones that have to be fired today in the roughest way, and they have created Croatia. So let's not let these people leave without those who forced us out of Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60430	counterpart Susana Bilić Vardic also applied for a replica. Here's Susan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60431	Thank you very much. My friend Mlinarić, I am sorry that the example of the Vukovar City Administration is unfortunately not the only one, but I am sorry that this is happening right in the city of Hero Vukovar. This shows how those who call Croatia and accuse Croatian authorities do so themselves. Namely, HDZ and the Croatian government have never acted this way. Your letter in the context of the debate that we are having today under the Law on the Rights of the Unemployed shows the paradox and hypocrisy that it is those most advocated and concerned about the rights of the unemployed and call the Croatian Government that it has not provided enough funds in the budget for their rights as you know it? Well, you know, here's how you try to get the number of people at the Employment Service every day to be as big as you can. I say this is not a lonely case at the local and regional level of leaders and SDP in the Republic of Croatia. Some take counsellors, with you fellow Mlinarić firing high-level professional equipment to hire a morally politically similar medium-sized professional device, and that is a fellow SDP contribution to the country of knowledge, the release of highly educated personnel who gave the most in the fight for the defence of our country, who have experience and today need to end up at the Employment Office. My colleague Mlinarić can't help much, but from the position of your fellow Member of Parliament, I can repeat what the employees of the City Administration of Vukovar have written, called, and I am using this opportunity to invite the Ministry of Administration to still carry out inspection supervision in the City Administration in Vukovar and to take, if illegalities are established, to take the prescribed steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60432	Answer, fellow Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60433	Thank you, colleague, but I still have to point out the example of a fellow S.H.I.E.L.D. who has just been fired that in prison he has secretly made us cards out of cardboard we cut out, drew our statesmen Dr. Tudjman, the Croatian coat of arms in one Nis, in that famous prison and his back were all pruning, five days beating him. And is this now a way to get such a man, and while Mr. Sabo went to camp after tomorrow the majors brought him in... he took his car and drove and eventually drove him away. And those three more days killed our friends in Borov and Vukovar. And who could have come back from the camp to bring him to the elders and bring him back and send the car to Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60434	We're going to the last reported hearing, colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60435	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. The fact that the economic crisis has not gone beyond the Croatian labour market is indisputable. The decline in production in 2009 and the negative index of growth, which has not been reduced in 2010 nor decreased the number of employees, is better said to increase the number of unemployed daily. Equally, the share of unemployed is increasing for more than 1 year, especially those with a lower level of education and a higher age. Long-term unemployment is trying to address educational measures, complementing knowledge and skills, and unemployment benefits are adapted to those who want to re-enter the labour market with new subsequent education. Yet one category of economics, we can call them workers or those who do, remains on the margins, remains unscathed. They're being talked about here today by a colleague named Hrelja. It's about craftsmen. It's better to say it's about craftsmen. And while their workers have every right to close their crafts like the others who have lost their jobs, the craftsman literally stays on the street without receiving. You're going to say that he doesn't pay a contribution of 2 times 0.85 and 1.7% for the unemployed, but I'm asking you why. If he can pay his workers, he can pay for himself. It's not true that we don't know what base to pay for it. If we were able to determine the basis for payment of contributions for health care, for pension and which is the basis of 65% of the average gross salary in the Republic of Croatia, then we could certainly apply the same base to those 1.7% so that people had certain security. For the past two years, nearly 15,000 crafts have been closed if we assume that 5 thousand new ones have been opened, 10 thousand turns remain outside production. There's only one employee, so 10 grand ended up at the Department of Employment with a fee, but there's exactly that 10,000 craftsmen who now or have to work black because they're not protected because they're literally without bread. At the same time, research by the European Union in countries that have secured incomes during unemployment shows that it is these craftsmen who are the least likely to remain at the Employment Office, because just as they are used to doing business, they are very quick to answer for themselves or to transfer their activity to another location or simply new knowledge and skills, and they are moving into another sphere of work. And it's really a question, how long until the craftsmen who are in other countries who are carrying a faster recovery of the economy are being discriminated against. Why, after a series of HOK appeals and a series of proposals, did not try to resolve this issue with these amendments, because we do have examples in some European Union countries, and we are also very often calling for the European Union and, ultimately, we are preparing to join that European Union. Today, the esteemed secretary gave the answer that the craftsman independently decides to interrupt the crafts. Isn't that what every company owner does? And how many crafts are just closed thanks to those smaller companies who simply because of the inequitability and non-payment have simply closed those crafts, which means regardless of the will or desire of craftsmen they are forced to close their crafts. I kind of commented here when you said that they decide for themselves, that it would be funny if it wasn't tragic for all those who are experiencing it today and who are in a stalemate situation. And I must therefore end up with the sentence that it is difficult to support a law that does not give a complete solution, or which part of those who are in the field of work discriminates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60436	Thank you. Does the Secretary of State want it to be final? Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60437	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable MPs and MPs. First of all, I'm going to have to say a brief thing to clarify about education and education benefits during the course of unemployment. So it's a fee of 600 kuna that gets an educated person, and it doesn't pay any costs. In fact, the procedure is that on the basis of employers, based on an analysis that is necessary for employers in Croatia in general, education programmes will be established in this area, and then the educational programme is carried out by an institution that deals with private, school, Pučko school or who, perhaps not ideal educational institutions but are those in Croatia. And so then the unemployed person goes to education and pays nothing and gets a thousand $600. So she doesn't pay out of those thousand 600 kunas any cost of education. It's just so much that there's no doubt about it. I must say this law of course does not solve the problem of unemployment in Croatia, it is addressed by all other measures. So, and also this law is not here, so these changes are not for savings. What is being saved on one side of the change is, on the other hand, higher expenditure in those other measures. Therefore, as much as expenditure would be reduced due to the reduction of compensation, expenditure will be increased as a result of the extension of those additional benefits in the case of long-term unemployment, those changes relating to the right to permanent compensation. So it's not the purpose of saving. Finally, for this purpose, only the funds for the Employment Service in the Rebalancing of the Budget are foreseen. These changes try to achieve as much as possible one balance between one side of the need for the social security of the unemployed and on the other hand for what sometimes doesn't sound nice or seems critical but must therefore be said that the fees are not detimulative for looking for work and, of course, at the end of the environment in Croatia, the minimum wage and everything. There's one more thing I have to say. When you say when you talk about reducing the fee even though the percentage is reduced from 50 and 40% to 35%, so the minimum fee will be increased to this, because now the minimum limit that would currently be 125.60 kuna is established, and now without that minimum protection provision, the fee from these 50 and 40% present can be less and are less for those who have had a lower salary, minimum salary, etc. So for only one part of the people who have paid more, that other part of the fee will be reduced. As far as long-term unemployment is concerned, this is exactly the law that is trying to solve the part about social security. It is now the first time that this extended fee is being introduced for people who have fallen into long-term unemployment. It's never existed before. It's the first time you've introduced it. This change is also being introduced in order to comply with the Pensions Act. The truth is what the esteemed representative of Hrelja said, that fee will be less, except for those first three months than early retirements, so maybe people won't stay at the Employment Service. But I think that regardless of what the fee is smaller and normal is that the fee, the permanent fee is less than the pension, that these people need to be given a simple space for it, they need to be given a choice that they will either take a fee or go to early retirement. And if he's always at the Employment Service, of course we're talking about the unemployed, not the employees, if he's always at the Employment Service, so it's the ones who chose to try to stay in the world of work and maybe try to find a job. And finally, just to look back at the craftsmen. The craftsmen do not pay contributions, of course by law they can be determined to pay. But the truth is, it may sound kind of harsh to you, but the truth is that craftsmen, unlike workers, decide on their termination. So they can be forced into some objective circumstances, but the employer decides. Namely, when a worker decides, he has no right to compensation. So the fee is not an unemployment fee, it's not an absolute fee in terms of whoever is unemployed after a number of years of internships, etc. He has the right to compensation. No, whoever's unemployed, and that unemployment hasn't come with its own guilt. So even the workers who quit themselves, who are responsible, I mean the guilt here has no meaning of guilt in criminal law, we know what they mean by that, so he didn't cause his own unemployment, so who fired himself or who made the deal, except for some exceptions we don't talk about. These workers also have no right to compensation. Therefore, neither craftsmen who, in fact or formally or in better terms, decide for themselves to terminate their employment relationship and for this reason do not have the right to compensation. And in the end, I would just say what I missed in the opening statement, that we have an amendment from MP Emil Tomljanovic about the moment the law came into force. The proposal is to make it November 1st, 2011. It's an amendment to Article 16 so now I'm taking this opportunity to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60438	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow. It's scheduled at 12. We continue at the usual time at 9.30, and the first point will be the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. Thank you very much and have a nice evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-21-0.u60439	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during Unemployment, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 598. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Emil Tomljanovic. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments, and we do not vote on them because they become an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights at the time of unemployment, with amendments adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote on the law. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority, 74 votes in favour, no abstentions and 41 against, together with the amendments accepted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the work of the agenda point - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 609. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Josip Kraljičković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
