ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45521	Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, I am opening the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, vice-president and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Allow me on behalf of all representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to warmly congratulate our colleague, Dr. Ivo Josipovic's election as president of the Republic of Croatia and we wish him a lot of success in his work. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. [[Applause.]] I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - The performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland" – Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, presidents and members of the Government I invite you to pay tribute to our colleague for a minute of silence suddenly deceased representative, former representative Vjekoslav Žugaj, as well as fallen Croatian defenders, all civilian victims of war and all fallen for Croatia. Especially all the victims of the holocausts that we today mark on January 27th. May eternal praise and glory be to them. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs have received the minutes of the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? If there are no objections, I would like to point out that we have adopted the minutes of the 15th session of the assembly in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and deputies are moving to set the agenda for the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I stress that the points we did not discuss at the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament are printed in thicker letters. In the final draft agenda, I included 3 new points, under regular numbers 22, 23 and 24. These are the proposal for a decision to appoint the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, the report on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and tourism development strategies. Third, the Report on the Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 10 to 15, then points 19 to 21 and points 60, shall state the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. These are the proposal for a law amending the Law on designations of origin, designations of geographical origin and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products with a final proposal for the law. This is an emergency procedure, so P.Z. No. Point (b) is replaced by the following: Secondly, the Proposal for a Law on the validation of a multiannual financing agreement between the European Community Commission on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal for a law is P.Z. No. Point 493, point 11. Proposal for a Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security with the Final Proposal for the Law of P.Z.E. Number 494 point 12. Then, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation on the fight against crime with the Final Proposal of the Law is P.Z. Number 495 point 13. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the cooperation and fight against organised crime of illicit trafficking and intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other types of serious criminal offences with the Final Proposal for the Law, that is also P.Z. Number 496 point 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. Number 497 point 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the House Savings Act and State Encouragement of Housing Savings with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z.E. Number 501 of point 19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of citizens with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. Number 502 of point 20. Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Law on the Privileges of Croatia d.d. with the final draft law, that's P.Z. number 503 point 21. I Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. the number 485 of point 60. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? I stress that the proposal is yes, but just to warn that point 12 and point 19 are points P.Z.E. So there is no need to vote on them. Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45522	Dear Mr. President, the government is proposing that we remove the emergency procedure from the amendments to the residence law, so that it goes into a regular procedure so that indeed all interested professionals and all other public may be involved in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45523	Thank you very much. Is there any objections to the other points proposed under the emergency procedure? Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45524	Thank you very much. I have an objection to point 60. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. We suggest that it go into regular procedure because the problem does not require urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45525	Thank you. That's good point 60. If there are no further objections, we move to a vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. Please engage to check the quorum first. 112, I suggest we vote by raising our hands around the agenda to move faster. We have a quorum. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on designations of origin, designations of geographical origin and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products P.Z. Point 10? If not, who's in charge of emergency procedures please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. It's a unanimous 112 vote. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the multiannual financing agreement between the Commission of the European Communities on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia P.Z. Number 493 point 11.? If not, who's in charge of emergency procedures please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? It's unanimous with 112 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Israel on cooperation on the fight against crime with the Final Proposal, that is, P.Z. Number 495 point 13.? There isn't. Who is to apply an emergency procedure to the adoption of this law, please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. 111 votes unanimously. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the cooperation and fight against organised crime of illicit trafficking and intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other types of serious criminal offences with the Final Proposal of the Law, that is also P.Z. Number 496 point 14.? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? It's unanimous with 111 votes. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy P.Z. Number 497 point 15? There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? It's unanimous with 113 votes. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence, the Prime Minister suggested going to first reading, so that it should not go through an emergency procedure, so we do not need to vote on it. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Law on Privatisation of Croatia's Elektroprivreda P No 503 item 11. If there's no one to administer an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? 115 unanimous. We have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, P.Z. No. 485, point 60. The president of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Andrija Hebrang, has suggested going to regular procedure. Does the government agree with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45526	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45527	Thank you. So, the proposal is to go into regular procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure proposed by the SDP Representatives Club? Against? Thank you. 47 votes in, 68 against. So, this bill goes into regular procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Objection can now only be submitted to points which did not contain the Proposal for a Agenda with a call for a session. Any of the MPs and deputies have objections at points 22 to 24. The final draft agenda that didn't contain the draft agenda that you received with the call for a session? These are the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, the Report on the time limit for taking the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the tourism development strategy, and the Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. Here you go. Mrs. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45528	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to express one protest because the item of the agenda, called The rise of violence among young people in the Republic of Croatia, has been waiting in the agenda for ten months to come to debate in this house. Meanwhile, a number of young people were killed in the streets of the Republic of Croatia, both in one piece and with a fatal outcome. So this topic was something that was of paramount importance to discuss. And really what's full of ten months puts that point at the very beginning, I don't think it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45529	Thank you. However, here is the secretary of the session who told me that there was no report by the home body on that agenda item. Otherwise, there's no reason not to put it on the agenda as soon as possible. There are therefore no objections to these three points which are subsequently included in the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45530	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It has been over 24 hours, I think on the agenda should also be the opinion of our Committee on the Constitution, the political system, etc. concerning all those objections made to the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of 12. So I'd like to ask you to keep it on the agenda, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45531	We don't have any material. When he gets here, we'll put him on the agenda. Therefore, in accordance with Article 205(2), The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I suggest if you agree that I do not read it in full but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda with the exception of these points where urgency has been removed and put into regular procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. As you can see, we predicted in half a minute all of this, happening so far. And now we continue with the announced addition of the agenda and the vote on the proposed points. First, let's plug in to check the quorum. Let's get on with it, please. We've got 82 but there's more than 82 of us. We can continue well. So I suggest supplementing the agenda with points. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Prevention of Water Contamination as a result of navigation under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 504. 2. Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee Fund for Economic Recovery and Development, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 505. 3. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on waterway navigation and technical maintenance, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 506. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 507. 5. Proposal for a Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Development Policy in the fiscal, social and financial sectors, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 508. Six. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 509. Seven. Final proposal of the Law on wages in local and regional (regional) self-government, with the Final Proposal for Law, second reading, P.Z. Number 415. 8. Final proposal of the Law on the Professional Education and Education Agency of adults, second reading, P.Z. Number 438. Nine. Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2008. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches, the materials are delivered into boxes. Please engage to determine, here's the agenda. We have a quorum. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The rules of procedure are laid down firstly to decide on a proposal for individual laws to be adopted by an urgent procedure. 1. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the certification of the protocol on the prevention of water pollution following navigation with the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. Number 504 point 1.? If not, please raise your hands. Who's in favour of a motion to discuss matters of urgency? Thank you. Against? There isn't. This proposal was adopted unanimously with 105 votes. 2. Does any of the representatives and advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Guarantee Fund Act for Economic Recovery, P.Z. No. 505, point 2? If not, I'm putting in a motion for the urgency of the voting procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. The result? Unanimity with 107 votes. Roger that. 3. If any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the navigation of waterways on internal waters and their technical maintenance, P.Z. No. 506, point 3? There isn't. Who's in favor of a motion to accept an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Thank you. The result? A single vote with 109 votes accepted the proposal. 4. if any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on special taxes on passenger cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, P.Z. No. 507, point 4.? There isn't. Who's to suggest that this point be discussed by emergency procedure? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Accepted unanimously with 109 votes. 5. Does any of the representatives and advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Loan of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Development Policy in the fiscal, social, financial sector, P.Z. No. 506, point 5? There isn't. Who's to suggest that this be discussed by emergency procedure? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The proposal was unanimously accepted with 109 votes. Whether any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, P.Z. No. 509, point 6.? There isn't. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 109 votes. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 16th session agenda, these are points under regular numbers 7, 8 and 9? This is the final proposal on salaries in local, regional administration, Final draft law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. If there are no objections, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45535	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45536	Thank you very much. Congratulations and a lot of success in the work. Thank you. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will now determine the quorum first. You're welcome to engage. Score. 90 MPs are present, although there may be more of us. Does everyone have keys? First of all, we'll decide on the completion of the 16th session agenda. I suggest supplementing the agenda with two new points. The first is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 510. And second, the Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of the Space Plan of Nature Park Lonjsko polje, the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We have a quorum and we can make a right decision. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, P.Z. No. 510? The legislator is Vice-President Vladimir Seks, with the support of 43 MPs. Any objections to the urgency? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on an emergency procedure proposal for the adoption of this law. The result, please. The proposal was accepted for the urgency of the majority vote procedure, 102 votes for and 3 abstentions and nothing against. Do any of the MPs or representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of a Spatial Nature Park Park Lonjsko Polje? If not, ladies and gentlemen, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45541	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. In recent times, it has been drawing attention to the fight against corruption, which I absolutely support, but it should also be said that in the shadow of the fight against corruption, there is a risk that the policy of avoiding responsibility, delaying decision-making and buying time will cause much greater damage to Croatia than those caused by corruption itself, regardless of the inadmissibility of public corruption. One example is the construction of a LNG terminal in Krk which is a project of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia that would open and not have a number of jobs at this time of severe economic crisis and where practically no Croatian partners can agree on the project HEP, INA and Plinarro on their own shares in the project for years. This is one of the reasons why the whole project is not implemented and it stands and would provide many jobs. Therefore, my question is how and how will you fight exactly this policy of avoiding and delaying decision-making and which can have extremely positive effects on the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45542	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45543	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. First of all, I would like to thank you for supporting as parliamentary representative and head of the parliamentary party all efforts by the Government to fight corruption and any form of crime in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that such support and your party will continue to be strong, and we absolutely do not give up. I believe that the results in this area are absolutely visible and there is no change in direction. So, I will repeat what we in the government often say regardless of the name and name, regardless of the belonging of the political party, any political option and no matter where it was. What you're mentioning is certainly a very interesting topic, so I have some information, but not in this particular case that you mention, that perhaps especially in some public enterprises a good opportunity to say something about it, that people may have become in some fear that something might happen to them too. The message is clear, anyone who works under the law, anyone who works under regulations, anyone who does an honest and conscious job has no reason to fear anything. They can and only need those who break the laws, who in any way have sinned primarily on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but also on the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the message is clear to everyone and in public enterprises and to everyone else, do your job, assume your share of responsibility. That's what this is about. So when doing your job honestly and honestly, then, of course, you need to take over your share of responsibility without fear and make decisions. In a specific case that you mention that there is no delay in making a decision, the fact is that just last week another meeting was held on the subject. Not some decisions are easy, but here I will be on the basis of your warnings and I will personally take an interest in myself, try to rush processes, intensify them because I agree with you and we in the Government that LNG terminal is an extremely important investment, i.e. an extremely important project. So there's no delay here, no fear, no delay in making decisions, no problems to solve. Very often there are problems that are extremely difficult to solve, this is what I want to convince you, if you can trust me and about which many, many institutions, almost all ministries must be involved. But here, I believe that by the next current morning we will have some news that you will be pleased with in the context of the issues you have asked and decisions on important projects for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45544	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Srb, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45545	Thank you very much. Thank you for your response, Madam Prime Minister. I would also like to say that all the process of postponing decisions that exist either in the state administration, whether in public enterprises or in the portfolio managed by the state because their intensification can compensate for the loss of jobs created elsewhere. So I want to tell you that it would be good for your determination, as you said at one point or lower your wages, or you can either carry it out or resign. So, in this particular case, there should be a warning to the responsible, to the management presidents, or to agree within a certain time limit, or gentlemen to resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45546	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Nadica Jelash's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45547	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. The Prime Minister's question is for you. Last year you charged Croatia 3.4 billion euros so that the total external debt of Croatia is currently 43 billion euros. According to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Croatia is the most in charge among the countries of the former Yugoslavia that are still awaiting entry into the European Union and is definitely one of the most in charge of transition countries. The burden of this huge external debt would be easier for Croatian citizens to live better, but Croatian citizens live worse and worse. According to Eurostat, they live worse today than they did three years ago and what's scariest, in Croatia there are more and more poor people. Every fifth Croatian citizen lives on the edge of poverty. Obviously, the money borrowed is spent for one purpose only, to keep this government going as long as possible. My question is, as an opposition parliamentary representative not long ago, so a certain number of years ago, you were appalled by the fate of Croatian citizens, noting that each of them, including only children, was in charge of 5,000 euros. Today you are the Prime Minister, so the most responsible person in this country. Say, please, how much is every born Croatian child in charge today?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45548	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45549	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs. Well, I'm going to answer very concretely and very precisely to your question which is a typical question which I could also comment on exclusively at this political level because it is thus set up, so it was firstly set to humiliate the government, humiliate me, but I'm going to answer you very specifically. So it is not true that this government, it is an incorrect data, has owed Croatia 3 billion euros. That's not true, the debt moves within the deficit, so about 10 billion kuna. It is also important to know and it would be good to include in your question the information, that in this total debt of the state is about 20%, and 80%, therefore, of all other things, the debt of banks, citizens and others. So it would be correct when you ask a question that you want to humiliate the government to compose it into the very question. Also, it is completely incorrect and false for your claim that the money we borrowed was used, that we use it only to maintain power. It's not only not true, it's actually complete, it might even be called funny because so that money can be spent on maintaining power at the moment of a huge crisis, the moment we solve employment problems, when we literally fight for every job, to preserve jobs. And so, Madam MPs, I believe that you will welcome this, but for tomorrow for the government's session on the basis of the decisions we made in the past months where the two budget rebalances were crucial in the 7th month, the adoption of finally and the criteria for the use of credit based on the project programmes we designed to support the economy. Tomorrow we will also pass the Guarantee Fund Act, which you will discuss here. Tomorrow we will bring very clear criteria on which many companies will be able to reach out for help that will certainly benefit them both in the preservation of jobs and in the launch of production and first loans we expect in half February, i.e. by the end of February. As far as children in Croatia are concerned, I will also mention to you that in all the measures that we had to cut the budget in the last year in all these measures we did not touch from the position of child allowance, from the position of maternity benefits. In fact, for this year on these difficult budgeting occasions, we have increased the birth benefits by an additional hundred million kunas. In total, it is more than four billion kunas of money for children in Croatia that we have not touched. This I think shows not only social sensitivity but care for Croatia's future. Therefore, we are spending not one single euro on holding in power, but on encouraging employment, supporting the economy, and that by the end of this year we can say Croatia slowly, but surely coming out of the crisis. And I believe we're satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45550	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45551	Prime Minister, I'm still going back to the bill, and it's very simple. 43 billion euros divided by four and a half million people, so Croatian citizens are 10,000 euros. It's exactly twice as much compared to the debt at the time of Racan's coalition government. At that time, the debt was 5,000 euros. As representatives of the 5,000-euro debt to you was huge, and now as prime minister, the 10,000-euro debt is actually something relative. Following last year's issue of 750m euros in bonds, which was the largest individual debt, i.e. the amount of debt in the history of independent Croatia. A few days ago, we had a chance to testify again under the allegations of the success of our finance minister. This time he owed us another 200m euros. Recently, the governor of the Croatian National Bank claimed that in 2010, the total foreign debt...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45552	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45553	...to reach 100% of GDP, and that is, in the opinion of economic experts, the situation...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45554	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45555	...when foreign debt becomes an unsustainable burden for... Don't do that. [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45556	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45557	I just wanted to point out it's actually a real success of HDZ authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45558	Thank you very much. I ask MPs and MPs to, of course, also ministers to abide by this time at their disposal and which are foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. And just let me give two brief notices very briefly. Ms. Chairman of the Committee, Dragica Zgrebec, informs that a session of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be held today at 14 o'clock in the Hall of Eugen Quaternika 233. And informing the chairman of the Committee on Economy Mr Dragan Kovacevic that today's session of the board is cancelled and scheduled for tomorrow at 8.30 p.m. at Stjepan Radic's Hall 133/I. We continue to ask questions along with another request to observe the time provided. She will ask a question from Mrs. Susana Bilic Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45559	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. President of the Croatian Government with members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Radovan Fuchs. Mr. Minister, about 33,000 of this year's high school graduates and from vocational schools have the right to approach the state's graduation exams. Do we know that in a few weeks, in fact, on February 19th, a state graduation exam as the leading man of this most important portfolio begins to ask a very short question, Mr. Minister, is everything ready?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45560	Thank you. Mr. Minister Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45561	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, Madam Representative, everything is ready. But of course I can explain it a little bit more. So far, i.e. until 10.30% of all graduates, so the students of high school and vocational schools have applied for the state graduation exams, and 81% of them are students who want to study with similar success. They have five more days to apply, taking into account that one of the students of vocational schools does not need to take public education exams unless he wants to continue studying and wants to go to the labour market. They end their education in vocational schools with a professional exam. Therefore, everything is ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45562	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45563	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am pleased with your response and I congratulate the Croatian Government and your ministry on the well done work. To all graduates who are still having second thoughts, I recommend that they use this time until January 31st and apply, and to all first-generation people who are going to take the state's graduation, I want a lot of success in this knowledge exam because I believe in their knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45564	Thank you. It's Mr. Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45565	The question is, I'm not going to politicize, I'm going to ask a life question. I want to set up or Mrs. Kosor, and I can get a response from Mr. Drinker or Mr. Shucker. I thought I'd first ask if the government would provide 815m euros in road construction guarantees in Montenegro, highways that could be a job of the century in Croatia. However, I will still touch the shipbuilding. As for Croatian builders, it would be a disaster not to provide this guarantee for a 2.7 billion-euro job, so for Croatia's small shipbuilding disaster, the Law on Special Taxes, i.e. A ship's excise duty. We're a big shipbuilding except for the Oilies. Come on, he's holding on to something else. So the big shipbuilding we destroyed consciously, unconsciously, now it doesn't matter. The representations here don't matter clearly. What happened in the river offends, but now we're on our way to destroy a small shipbuilding. Large shipbuilding provides income from 5 to 5 and a half billion kuna at year-on-year level, Greeks in losses and with budget grants per job of as many as 230 000 kunas, it cannot be derived from the problem while small shipbuilding generates revenue from one billion kuna at an annual level and the state gets nothing. Now, whose goal is to destroy that little shipbuilding. We are trying to privatize largely, mentioning Končar, Zepter, Samsung, Hyundai, Daewoo and what works successfully small shipbuilding or what is destroyed by absurd taxes, i.e. the excise duties. So, the question of when we will abolish the absurd Law on excise duties on boats and what will happen to Croatia's large shipyards "May 3rd", "Kingljevica", "Trogir", "Brodosplit", "Olinik", i.e. which is the fate of Croatian shipbuilding in 2010, 2011. Does the government see a rescue or maybe shutting down the same one?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45566	Thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45567	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, and you've asked at least 10, 15 questions in this one. And I'll concentrate on two that seems most important to me. So the issue of shipbuilding in total and your question about so-called. Little shipbuilders. About this last one, I think I have some good news for you and some important news for all of them, but also for all of us. Tomorrow, there will be an amendment to the Law on Special Tax on Small Ships. And I believe that through the amendment of that law, it will be read that the government listened, that the government heard, that the government understood and that it is trying in all ways to help, and I believe that this law, or amendments to that law, and you will support it in the Croatian Parliament. As far as shipbuilding is concerned, I also expect the conditions at the government session tomorrow, i.e. the start of the opening of the second round of privatisation, so a new competition, by mid-February anyway. And here's what I want to say on the trail of all the efforts we've made so far, so I believe that you know that we've been able to get a new deadline, so 60 days of the duration of the competition, that in that time, and of course the Ministry of Economy and all of us members and members of the government are also making extra efforts, but we're going to put them especially into these new 60 days, that if we need to get literally everyone who can participate in any way in this process, so that those who can appear as investors, or as buyers, that we'll talk to everyone, that there are some good signs, but of course I'll be absolutely careful, because the second thing you're saying is also when you get close to work, and the second thing is when that job starts. So we're gonna do everything we can to make this work work work that's ahead of us work. And I invite you to help in this regard, Mr. Representative, both you and the party you represent here in the Croatian Parliament. If you have any indication of potential customers, potentially interested, please report that we are talking to them together, that we present to them all the things that we have managed to change, improve and make this whole business work work. Of course, first of all, to the satisfaction of life-interesting people who are employed in shipyards, but also to the satisfaction of all of us, you in the Croatian Parliament, us in the Government, and all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So this job in the second round, actually ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Representative is leaving tomorrow. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just going to point out the third answer, that is, to the third question, about these investments in Montenegro. We are focused on providing support and guarantees to companies in Croatia for jobs in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45568	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45569	Yes, when it comes to shipbuilding, we have been late for at least 10 years, and more than IDS or better said the structure of the government, or more than they have helped the "Otter" and God forbid that others in Croatia have helped those shipyards whose territory they lie on. Maybe the odds would be different. But I just don't see a relevant buyer entering our shipyard. But what I'm trying to say. This excise tax code or one similar, about this archaeological study we read today in the paper, the one about the ban on selling agricultural land, the unworkable Sundays, the ban on smoking, one word of such laws,... They destroy Croatia, but I say they destroy even more such inconclusive and absurd laws for which no one is clearly responsible in the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're now being held hostage by internal accounts on the one hand, inconclusive laws, we're dealing with marginals, not essentials. That's why I didn't want to politicize questions, but I did absolutely, corruption is the son of a qua non of our survival. But if we don't change the quality of our laws, I don't think any of us are writing well in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45570	Thank you. My request and warning regarding asking questions, times, etc. and spent. I'll have to quote article 180. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 4, which says, "A representative can ask one question." It must be brief and clearly formulated, and generally such that it can be responded immediately and without preparation. But when you ask a few questions, it goes too far, and besides, time and so we actually violate the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to follow these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as well as others of course. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Mile Horvatt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45571	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to ask the Minister of Administration, Mr. Mlakar. Mr. Minister, a month ago and a little more than a few days ago, we completed a cycle of additional elections for minorities, and these additional elections were actually meant to enable the participation of minorities in the executive government of local and regional self-government, where this was not possible in the first round of local elections. With these additional elections, these additional elections were held in seven counties and 20 municipalities and cities. However, additional elections have not been held in Licko-Senjska, Zadar, Virovitica-Podravska County and another 10 municipalities, so as not to list them now. My question is very brief. What will you do, Mr. Minister, to hold the necessary elections in these units, and when they will be held. It is known that the statutes of municipalities and counties should have been harmonised within 60 days of the local elections being held in order to enable them to, therefore, create assumptions for these additional elections. We also do not know what kind of supervision the state administration has carried out or intends to implement towards units of local self-government and regional self-government that have not carried out this legal obligation, thus allowing the additional elections to be held in this round, that is to say, the additional elections must be held once more and additional costs and all that is going on and we could have avoided that we respected the legal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45572	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45573	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. You are aware that local elections were held in the 5th month of last year and that the representative bodies of the units of local and regional administrations and self-government were established only at the end of August, it was a time limit for those units to adopt amendments to their statutes, i.e. to comply with the provisions of the law. In view of the composition of the council, you are aware that all of this has not been done at the same time, and therefore the Government, I can quote this in the October 22nd conclusion that the additional elections will be held in all these units on the condition that they comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. You also know that on December 6th for a group of counties, and municipalities and cities are scheduled to hold additional elections that have been made within that deadline. Since not all of them have adopted amendments to the statutes at the same time, the Government has also conducted the principle of efficiency to call elections in a number of these units, and that when all other obligations under the Law are carried out, it shall call the additional elections for the remaining units. It is also about the selection of members of the representative bodies and the selection of deputy mayors, mayors or municipal mayors. Some of the units mentioned have already made changes to their statutes. In particular, it is the Virovitica-Podravska County, which has the obligation of additional elections for the deputy mayor, which has amended the provisions of its statute and thus brought it into line with the Law. Since some cities and municipalities have not yet implemented this procedure to the end of the harmonisation of the statutes, the Ministry of Administration has carried out administrative supervision in most units and one of the administrative control measures will be precisely that, within a certain deadline prescribed by law, the General Administrative Procedure Act will comply with its statutes in order to finalise the elections for all the remaining units in order not to raise the costs of the election. You know that even in these supplementals, we have repeated some elections for an extremely small number of voters in order to fulfil our obligation to these units that held additional elections on December 6th and 20th respectively. Therefore, what I can say is I believe that in the next month or two we will have in all units a harmonised statute and then we can make a decision on the calling of additional elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45574	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45575	I thank Mr. Minister for his reply, and I appreciate what you said, and I would not compromise on why some of them did it, and some of them, by interpreting their regulations, put them in a position to be late, cause this new term of choice, new costs, etc., but please send us a written reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45576	Thank you. The announcement by the chairman of the Tourism Committee Marin Brkaric postpones the meeting of the Committee for 3 February at 14 p.m. which will be subsequently confirmed by the invitation. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45577	Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Prime Minister, along with members of the government. My question was addressed to Mr Tomislav Ivic, Minister of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Mr. Minister, the economic crisis has caused concerns from the owners of the Croatian Defence Fund, but also from the beneficiary of the Croatian Defence and Child Scholarship Fund. Please answer me as the Croatian Defence Fund is operating, but also whether the business results of the Croatian Defence Fund will enable the successful work of the Croatian Defence Fund and their children from the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War Foundation this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45578	Thank you. Mr. Minister Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45579	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Shantek, I would be very happy to answer your question. I am pleased to say that despite the economic crisis and recession, the Croatian Defence Fund has done more than successfully in 2009. It's essentially the strongest fund in the country that's successfully doing business since the draft. The best confirmation of the performance of the Fund is financial indicators. I can say that the value of the Fund's assets is currently 2 billion and 309 million kuna. That in the past 2009 the Fund achieved a profit of 248 million kuna or 25% more than in 2008 that the value of the share of the individual stake in the Croatian Defence Fund was 763 kuna and that it increased almost 30% compared to 2008. So these are financial indicators that confirm what I said the Fund is doing more than successfully and thanks to this success of the Fund's operations, funds have also been provided for the Croatian Defence and Child Scholarship Fund and the Croatian Defence Fund so that in the 2009/2010 school and academic year. will be paid for 10 thousand 257 student and student scholarships for children of Croatian defenders. Otherwise, over the past 3 years, more than 20,000 scholarships have been secured from the Scholarship Fund, nearly 120 million kunas have been paid for that purpose. The same is true of the Croatian Defence Fund, which has paid for the aid of humanitarian and social character for Croatian defenders over 50 million kuna over the past 3 years. Therefore, these two and the Fund and the Foundation show the direct benefit of defenders from the existence of the Croatian Defence Fund. Of course, there should be a particular mention of the government's decision of 2005 that shares of the most valuable Croatian companies INE and Telekom are 7% transferred to the assets of the fund, which essentially created assumptions that the fund could start working and, of course, work successfully. I will take this opportunity and call on Croatian defenders not to sell their shares because everything I said is in favour of the fact that the future of the fund is quite certain and that it can also be expected in the coming years to succeed in the business of the Croatian Defence Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45580	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Shantek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45581	Thank you. Here I am truly pleased with these words of yours, and I am pleased with the answer I have received. Indeed, the 10 357 scholarships that are shared in this school year are truly one impressive figure, and these are the funds and trusts of the reserves that many families of Croatian defenders have counted on in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45582	Thank you. It's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45583	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care. Mr. Minister, the percentage of pregnancy achieved since the introduction of the Law on Insemination at the Zagreb hospital "St. The spirit" fell from 36 to 24%. So success fell by a third. The Roda Association, but not only the Roda Association, but also the entire professional public, argues that such data is not actually a surprise, given that in Croatia we have passed the most rigorous law in Europe. My question to you is this. Why are you so persistent, so persistent in insisting on a method that is not a gold standard in the world? On a method that's not being stalked in Croatia? On a method that is significantly more expensive, which gives worse results and which is more harmful to women's health and which is ultimately political rather than professional decision? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45584	Vice-President and Minister, Mr. Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45585	Thank you very much for this question. And besides Rod, there are other associations. There's, like, a "Gross" association that brings together parents who count over 40,000 members. We heard new, misinformation about medical insemination and during law-making, and here you are today. Here's to the information from the director of St. John's Hospital. A ghost who said it didn't fall for a third of the number of medical fertilizations at St. The spirit" is that for the reason that the 7th and 8th months were on collective vacation. The department was renovated on the 10th month. They were in education on the 11th month. Well, of course, at that time, the number of pregnancies dropped slightly. The law is the most controversial in Europe, as you say. In Croatia, we will say couples living in marriage and the extramarital community are even. They're not even in France, they're not even in Switzerland. In Croatia, you can donate, store egg cells and ovaries and testicles. They cannot be found in Austria, Germany, Norway, Denmark, Slovenia. The identity of the donor is protected with us, not protected in Belgium, Germany, Norway, Austria, Sweden, Turkey, Great Britain. It's all about the controversy and reverse of the law. On the round table of academics you often invite in Croatia by promoting Slovenian healthcare, I have nothing against it, he said that all the laws in EU countries are all subject to restrictions and that Croatia is no exception. We heard that train columns, buses are coming, and probably because of the proximity of Croatia and Slovenia, they don't have to take off planes, do they? So says academician Vlaisavljevic, there has been a trend in Europe for a long time that Slovenian citizens as well as citizens of other European states travel abroad and that this practice is not directly related to any law. It's hard to deny the facts. No policy has passed this law, the Croatian Society for Human Reproduction has given all positive reviews to this law. Now about the number of procedures that have fallen drastically on you, so we have official data, though in 2-3 months, we'll wait another 4.5 months. The number of procedures, you must hear this, is 17% higher than the adoption of this law. The number of pregnancies is 23% higher than the adoption of this law, and the number of pregnancies per embryo transfer is 1.35% higher. But when it's read in the papers, especially those who don't understand, they say it took six months. for the first pregnancy from a frozen egg cell is not true because first it goes to a fresh embryo transfer. Those in the profession understand, so if it doesn't work, it takes one month, two days, so the first attempts at pregnancy from frozen egg cells I'd be incorrect if I said so, but I'll say, so far we have four attempts and two pregnancies. So 50% success. Only the rich will be able to do medical insemination. And you said that, but here's what I'm saying. We're the only country in Europe that pays six procedures that doesn't seem to benefit the rich but rather the poor. And a series, a series of details we've heard, and we'll probably listen to them as misinformation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45586	Thank you. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45587	Mr. Secretary, I don't know how many denials you can get, but you're being denied the number of children you're starting. You mention the Grozd Association, I really don't know what their references to artificial insemination are, except they've experienced a debacle about a program of sexual education in schools. And please, Mr. Minister, please, it's unfortunate that Mr. Minister, in addition to so many professional and smart and capable people in this country, indifference, ignorance, so if you want to even boast, it makes our couples who want to have children look elsewhere for professional help. And it is regrettable that this is why they have to raise loans and go to Slovenia while you, Mr. Ministers in Croatia, create health care only for the rich. That's sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45588	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Stipe Gabric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45589	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Prime Minister of the Croatian Government with the ministers. My question is to ask the vice-president of the Croatian government and the resolute minister of regional development of forestry and water economy, Mr Bozidar Pankretić. Since it's 26th. 12th to about 18th. The 01st large waters endangered the entire area of the Neretva valley, the town of Metković, the municipality of Pula Norinska and one part of the town of Ploča, or the town of Komin. What will the Croatian government do to ensure that this does not happen in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45590	Thank you. Vice-President and Minister Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45591	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Your Honor, I'm going to say in the beginning that unfortunately certain things are impossible to predict especially when we talk about such extraordinary circumstances as these great waters. According to the latest reports in the last 30 years, only three times we've had this kind of thing can be freely said almost an elemental accident. I express my regret on behalf of the Croatian Government to all inhabitants of the Neretva Valley for the damage suffered, and certainly for everything that has been done. In any case, I must stress that the Croatian Government has done everything in its capacity through the Ministry of Regional Development, Water Economy and Forestry, of course through Croatian Waters and People who have been on the ground all along. Everything there was assured that any activities of yours that were on the scene. What is especially important is that we now have, together with the bodies that are locally recorded, the damage that has occurred. Since an elemental accident has been declared, evaluations should be made. They are working, as far as we have data cca 400 total houses in the affected area are reported with certain damages. cca 400 hectares of agricultural areas that have been affected. That part of the question that concerns, what we're going to do. Of course you know the procedure, what the government immediately did was part of the money that we also intended for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, but also the Lika-Senj County. What's ahead of us is part of the compensation damage when they complete their evaluations. The procedure is to submit this to our Commission, according to individual requirements, for the assessment of natural disasters and damages, to the extent possible by existing means, to the extent that certain damage is compensated. In my opinion, the part we also have to do and we are already working on it is a deal with the Bosnian-Herzegovina authorities. Since unfortunately, the first part of the city's defence is in Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is part of the problem that we still need to coordinate and improve as much as possible. And the most significant part, which is now in preparation, is the construction of the town of Metkovic's embankment and defence. I'd say a long-awaited job that's been going on for a long time. And I can tell you now, we're almost done making complete documentation. It's all over. We expect a building permit in May. Starting complete work. We've prepared funds for cca 50 million kuna. And I'd say within two years we'll stop everything that's been going on for decades. And I believe that the city of Metkovic and the entire valley of Neretva will be safe ever since, and I can say that the Croatian government is working on it, and we will do our job in time and time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45592	Thank you. Representative Mr. Stipo Gabrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45593	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister and Resolute Minister Mr Pankretić. And I especially thank the president of the Croatian government who, at these most difficult times on January 10th, when the water grew from minute to minute called me several times, other cities and municipalities and intervened with the State Administration for help and rescue with technique and people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45594	Thank you. He'll ask a question, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45595	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Mr Gordan Jandrokovic. These days we could read in the media the announcement of Sweden to shut down some of its embassies. Between the others and the one in Ljubljana, Sofia and Bratislava. Does Croatian diplomacy reflect on the restructuring of its diplomatic and consular network, i.e. what does it do to respond to the current challenges on the one hand, organisationally harmonize its diplomatic representations with financial constraints, and on the other, take advantage of some of the new opportunities and potentials provided to it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45596	Thank you. Mr. Minister Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45597	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Representative, and Croatia, like all other countries, adapts its diplomatic and consular network, it adapts its diplomacy to its financial opportunities and, of course, its external and political priorities, namely the wishes and interests that it has stronger or less diplomatic relations with each country. The economic crisis of new technologies is the main reasons why the changes you have been talking about are taking place and I must admit that I was personally surprised when I saw a country the size and strength of these financial powers as Sweden redefines its diplomatic-consular network and decides to close diplomatic representations even in the countries of the European Union. They're not the only ones. I was recently visiting Switzerland, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Switzerland also told me that they are going into restructuring, that they are reducing the number of diplomatic and consular representations, so that this is a trend that is definitely among the richest countries and that will follow Croatia in any case. What we have done in these two years so far, we have significantly reduced the number of employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In 2008, when I took over the post of minister there were a thousand 533 employees, today the number is at the level of a thousand 377, with the new systematization that we have made the planned figure targeted by a number of 262 employees. And we will continue, so I hope that by the end of the term, we will be able to get to that exact target number. We are not firing employees who are in a permanent working relationship, but we are terminating contracts at the end with contract diplomats, while at the same time one part of our employees is passing on to other state administration bodies. As for the budget, we've reduced it by about 60 million in these last two years. It's through these cuts and through the more rational business of our diplomatic and consular network. In many countries, we have reduced the number of diplomats. With all those countries where we care about our presence, we'll probably go to the ambassador alone, plus another diplomat. We are also thinking about reducing administrators and at the moment there is an analysis of the possible reduction of certain embassies or consulates and at the same time of establishing some new ones because we have detected that some areas that are extremely important to us are primarily due to an economy such as Central Asia or such as the Golf area in which I was also recently in Oman, Qatar and Emirates. There we do not have our diplomatic and consular representation and there is a great interest of Croatian businessmen to have Croatia presented diplomatically there so that within the current budget we will look for opportunities to open up some new diplomatic and consular representations and where we have no legitimate reason to go either to major reductions or to close these representations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45598	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45599	... The diplomatic and consular networks of Croatian diplomacy will be successful. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45600	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45601	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister. I refer my question to Minister Mlakar, although it might be better if I had referred him to Minister Karamark because it is an area concerning both the Ministry and the Ministry. In the Republic of Croatia, every citizen has the right to declare his nationality or not to declare himself at all. Nationality is not born, it is a matter of individual's personal relationship based on a cultural, social and psychological relationship of a person and a nation or a sense of belonging. Is that respected in Croatia? Unfortunately, it is possible to enter data on national membership in the electoral lists in the offices of the state administration or in the home offices which are most often the closest but not always on the basis of a declaration. Before the parliamentary elections, evidence of the succession order was sought. Today it's the same thing in some counties. If you come by ID, the situation is even worse. Namely, it's not enough to make a statement, you're looking for a document. Which, you don't know. Because he says bring some documents. There's no more of that data in the birth certificate today. He says bring the evidence. Witnesses don't have that data today, they used to have it, but it was written by their parents. Somewhere, a statement is even required to be verified by a public notary. For 50 years or until 2002, this was kept in the residence records. That's when the rulebook was lifted. I'm asking the minister right now, but as far as one and the other ministers are concerned, the answer will normally be given to me by Minister Mlakar. When will each individual’s right to express his or her belonging be respected only by a declaration, or will a single database be finally created where all data will be available and this information will be available in one place?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45602	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45603	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I don't know about this case that they were looking for additional documents. I can, of course, only quote what is regulated by our regulations and how our bodies are obliged to behave and that means that every person, I'm talking about records that are official records of the Ministry of Administration. So it's about the voters' lists. It is precisely because of these elections for members of national minorities that each person has the right and option to decide whether to show his nationality and to make a statement to the authorities who run those lists. That statement only requires a statement from officials working in our offices. There is no need for any confirmation of public notaries because our officials have the right to receive on the record a certified statement and that is a statement that is then entered into our registers in the voters' lists and based on these records and we are holding elections for members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know about the business within the Ministry of the Interior whether a rule on the identity card that previously requested such a right or obligation has been deleted, but you were right to keep it on national property until 2000 and within the Ministry of the Interior. If you want us to check these cases if you do, then we'll give you a written statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45604	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45605	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I have to say, unfortunately, there are really different approaches from the office to the office. In Gareshnica, before the parliamentary elections in Novska, I was complained that they had an indication that national membership could not be declared only by a statement. Today I have information from the Virovitica-Podravska County that it's happening just as well. When it comes to identity cards, it is often said that very few people have a minority card. It's precisely the reason I got the information also then from the Daruvar facility to look for some evidence documents. People usually don't, and if they have those documents, or they don't write, or I say, if they say bring a testimony, which is normal what parents declared because it says parenting nationality, not individual belongings. It would be good to finally get on the ground and at the Ministry of the Interior and here send clear instructions on how to declare nationality and really no longer be sought and that it does not depend on employees or on the head of the office on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45606	Thank you. It's Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45607	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. For years, the Independent Customs Union has been warning the customs director and member of the HDZ Central Committee, Mladen Barisic, called "The Torbar". The man is otherwise a close friend of former Prime Minister Sanader. This and such Mladen Barisic are constantly putting pressure on the union leaders, only because they warn of violent illegalities and abuses, people who reveal corruption and organised crime are demoted and even disciplined. You are Madam Prime Minister to know this because the union is reporting you in detail almost every day. My question is, do you intend to put up with him for a long time in that place, or will you remove him now that he's missing a once powerful protector?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45608	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45609	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs. First of all, it is not true and it is not true that the union is reporting to me every day about something, especially that the union you mention is notifying me anything about Mr Barisic. So much for facts. Of course, to every intervention of anyone, especially the union, of course they have to react to the competent state bodies, so Madam MPs, here's what I could suggest, but there's no right and no question about it, if you're convinced of what you're saying, whether you've run anything and if you've done anything. However, there is something else I want to make very clear. In the context of some of the changes we've made in the party, I'll just say a few words at the party, and I'll move on to the government, of course. No one is moved by a millimeter either left or right, worse or worse or relieved of some duty because he is close to someone, because he is a friend of someone, but if he has sinned against the Statute of the Croatian Democratic Union and worked contrary to the decisions of the party's presidency. I believe that's the way it is in your party. The proximity or distance of anyone from anyone, the friendship of anyone with whom it has nothing to do with the decisions of the party bodies. As regards the exercise of the duties of State Secretary, Mr Barisic, if we in the Government, first and foremost, the Secretary of State, as well as any other Secretary of State or Assistant or Director, do not carry out his duties in accordance with the law, of course we will intervene so that it will be in this case. And this, I repeat, has nothing to do with the proximity of anyone and has nothing to do with any friendship within the Croatian Democratic Community or within the framework of the government or within Croatia as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45610	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45611	Prime Minister, I do, and I trust you in some way, but let me still trust the Customs Union more. And I wouldn't compare our two parties, their statutes and what these statutes are prescribed. However, allow me, you have spoken here of your statute, but I would prefer that you spoke of a law that binds you. You also spoke of jurisdiction, you are directly in charge of Mr Mladen Barisic, as he came there. I'm not asking any other criminal responsibilities here. Of course it's the authority of the law enforcement body, but here we're talking about your responsibility, about the person they're warning about and what this customs office is about all the time. They had so much, if you say that you didn't get written by any of them, or that you don't get many of them resents, they've had so much, there's almost no weeks that they don't have public appearances.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45612	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45613	I have copies...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45614	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45615	The one they pointed at and submitted to you, and yet you pretend you don't know anything about it.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45616	Oh, thank you very much, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45617	They're leaving in one of the speedboats.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45618	Thank you very much. You took our time again, but since you're interesting then I didn't intervene too much. It's Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45619	Dear Mr. Karamarko, by coming to the post of minister you announced along with Director Faber the depolitisation and professionalization of the police. But Faber was soon warned that there was a police station on the street, not at the speaking table, after on the round table of one of the boards of this House, he said, "It is time to face reality because we have long dimmed a stinking product into a cellophane and presented it as a great condition." Right after that, you also tempered your rhetoric, but you remained in need of depolitisation. In one interview, you said no more than a year ago that, I quote: "There is politics, politicisation, profession, and what we want is more profession and less politics. Depolitisation primarily means bringing in professional people. We cannot deny the fact that after the parliamentary elections in the police progressed and took office on the wings of victory in those elections. However, many of these people are high - quality and have found their place in the system, and we will not deal with their status. We are interested in those who are unprofessional and do not want to do their job." The end of the quote. My question is, I'm interested here with a year away, how many unprofessional people who don't want to do their job found in the police department and at what positions, how specifically the police officers at all levels in the police have progressed because of their professionalization, and how many have been changed because of their unwork.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45620	Thank you. Minister Tomislav Karamarko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45621	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. So that's one complex question, a question of depoliticalism, or a question of professionalism. All of what I said in my opening speech in the Croatian Parliament, what I say in a few interviews, so I can repeat now very briefly. It's a long process, really. It's not just about changing people. Some other processes and the adoption of some laws are important, the adoption of some internal acts within the Ministry of Interior itself. In addition to all these processes that you now mention, you rightly mention that it is necessary to do this, we do it daily, we do very, very responsible work daily. So within that system, within that process of dealing with this business and fighting crime and fighting corruption and raising the security of our citizens, we have to work on the internal structure. One of these is really that. At this point I can't talk exactly about some numbers how many people we are, of course it's on dozens of people who are... , which have been moved, which have been replaced, which have been set up etc., mainly exclude them according to the prescribed and professional principle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45622	Thank you. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45623	Mr. Minister, unfortunately, I'm afraid the product is still in the cellophane with the fact that he's now got a bow tie. Not only is the depolitical process not started but it's just for political reasons, let me say it, because of the pressure of former prime minister removed police director Vladimir Faber. Now that Sanader's gone, Faber's not back. I'll say one more thing, trust in the police system, among other things, the police will gain exposure to the people who beat up journalist Dusan Miljuš, manager of Josip Galinc and their orderlies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45624	Thank you. He will ask a question, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45625	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I ask my question to the Prime Ministers of the Republic of Croatia, and it concerns the mandate of the last six months. Your Honor, it's been half a year since you were elected to head the government. You've announced decisive and reform moves. The three concrete results of your government's work are: the introduction of a crisis tax with the right of a known harrassor, the excise duty on mobile telephony and the increase of VAT. My question is very simple. How much of that bill did you take out of the pockets of Croatian people?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45626	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45627	Mr. President, Mr. Representative, this is another magnificent question with which you will enter history for sure. But aside, I'll be serious. I'm going to answer very seriously. So very specific. You asked me about the specifics, so I'll answer specifically. I think in six months in the government we've done a lot of things, a lot of things visible and concrete. So, through the budget rebalancing and even at the request of the opposition, we, as you know, cut the budget by nearly seven billion kuna, which means we've reduced consumption. We've shut down the use of cards. We stopped buying the car. We managed through government measures to further achieve savings in public enterprises for about a billion and a half kuna. We have also managed to reach an acceptable level of liquidity in public enterprises. I also consider it important, difficult, but important ventures. Also, as you know, we have made very concrete moves and in the strength of the economy which now here tomorrow begins with real and full and complete realization. In order to get to that point, to establish a guarantee fund, to enter into cooperation with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the Croatian National Bank, with the business banks, we had to wait a moment for that money to mean, four five billion, ten billion to exist. So, in addition to all that, the measures of this government are in place. And certainly in the strength and economy and everything else through, so I look at our moves in a strong, determined and uncompromising fight against corruption. That is also the strength of the economy. As you can see, the results are visible. They're visible every day. And today they are visible, and I believe that the results of your whole heart welcome you. As far as the Law on Special Taxes, which you call a burglar, I must remind you that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision, made it very clear that this law is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so it is not against the constitution. And I remind you, Mr. Representative, that we are also at those times when we had to make these too difficult decisions that really no Prime Minister can make that would allow him to literally sleep every day because he doesn't know what to worry about. Of course, it happened to me, and it's quite understandable. But we have also made this special tax, and I also consider it a result of the great effort we have made to liberate some 900,000 pensioners who receive up to 3,000 kuna pensions and about 600,000 employees who receive salaries of up to 3,000 kuna. Therefore, we have made efforts to ensure the most sensitive groups in Croatian society, but today I have said despite the crisis and despite the difficult times we have not reduced pensions. However, in the budget for this year we provided about 600 million kuna, right, Ivane more for pensions than it was last year. We provide regular payments and pensions and salaries, and I still find it important to take this government's steps in times of severe economic global crisis, which, of course, we're not alone to blame, is definitely. And finally the answer is quite specific to your question you asked me. I personally think I didn't take anything from anyone. I am working hard to make Croatia better, and I believe from tomorrow from the adoption of our quite concrete measures to strengthen the economy that will really be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45628	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45629	Dear Prime Minister, you mentioned that the question would enter history. But what will definitely go into history is what Croatian citizens can buy for 3,000 kuna less per year than they have had on the crisis tax. I can buy less than 1000 kg of flour, 500 litres of milk, 500 kg of bread and 250 litres of oil. You also mentioned indifference. The indifference in this country has never been higher and is 26 billion. 70,000 people are directly endangered at this time and working in these companies, and only 23,000 cancellations were divided in November and December last year. I'm sure he can't promise that. The only ones who have profited let's say in the last six months are those ministers who have been promoted to vice presidents of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45630	Thank you. They were voted by the Croatian Parliament. It's Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45631	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a question for Minister Karamark. Dear Mr. Minister, you have stated in the media that Drago Maček is otherwise one of the main indictees in the Brodosplit affair I offered to be a protected witness or associate as you said then. In an investigation into this affair that brought attention not only to the Croatian public, but to the international public, but also to international law enforcement. On the same occasion, Mr. Minister, you stated that the meeting took place two, three years ago while you were head of the intelligence community. But you don't remember exactly what Mr. Pussy asked for. I'm asking you, how is it possible that you, as the then head of the intelligence community, don't remember what Mr. Pussy asked for to discover important things in this investigation? And today I'm asking you here in the Croatian Parliament to tell the highest legislative body of this state what status Mr. Mace asked for, what information he wanted to give in this affair, whether it is a suspicion that falls on all those who are hiding it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45632	Thank you. Mr. Minister Karamarko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45633	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You know the memory question, it's a relative thing. The meeting took place on 28 September 2006, I was then the director of SOA. We had a lot of, a lot of other things, because the primary SOA business is not a crime, and corruption is some other thing I wouldn't be talking about right now. Especially not about the jobs we did back then. So on September 28, 2006, I was invited to the State's Attorney's Office for a meeting on the subject of "Brodosplit" where we were told that Mr. Puss, that there was a possibility that Mr. Macek would become reliable in that case. I even have a note here from that meeting, so you can take a look after the session, where I absolutely supported such an opportunity along with State Attorney Bajic. After a few days we've been informed that the gentleman has given up such an opportunity, Mr. Cat. So here I was really not at that moment when the press asked me that question, when that statement came to light, he could remember the details of that meeting. I think it's human. Okay, maybe something should've been taken to improve your memory, but here's how much so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45634	Thank you. Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45635	Mr. Minister, since there are strong indications, and I am several times open here in the Parliament said that part of the police unfortunately obstructed this investigation, and I mean the police administration of the County of Split-Dalmatia. At first, I find it strange that there's still the same thing, that nothing has changed. I'm surprised you didn't remember when you were supposed to remember, but now you suddenly remember and you're very well prepared to answer this question. And I'm telling you that you have no right not to remember, given the duty you've acted on. You have no right to do that. As a professional. And later memories can also be taken as a kind of handicap for the behavior of such functions. ... And listen, if you'll always remember after five years of what happened five years ago, I take it that's not a very big reference to acting as the then head of the intelligence community. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm asking you to at least do something in the police department today that's been acting so that the State's Attorney's Office, without finishing the investigation, has raised investigations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45636	Thank you. Let's break this too serious atmosphere a little bit. I heard that one in Split forgot his son's name, so then you might think. Mr. Franjo Lucic will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45637	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, Your Honor. My question is to the Minister of Management, Mr Davorin Mlakar. Dear Minister, my question is what has been done so far in terms of territorial reconstruction and has the Government of the Republic of Croatia given up on this project, and what is the Ministry of Administration doing about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45638	Thank you. Mr. Mlakar, Minister Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45639	Dear Representative, the government has cited as one of its priorities in this mandate from the very beginning and in the statements of the president, Mrs Kosor, that it will work on a proposal for a new territorial organisation of the Republic of Croatia. We have so far been popularizing in some way and the work that precedes political decisions has been carried out by a round table in early December of last year, which was invited by all parliamentary parties as well as civil society associations interested in the issue, where we then presented the proposal for the whole job that stands before the Ministry of Administration and the Government. Then we talked about a small pilot project that we started with cooperation with both the economic institute and the bases and some of the analyses that the Zagreb Institute of Economics had done until then. Unfortunately, today after that round table, we experience that some media have passed on statements that we have given up our territorial structure. On the contrary. After that round table, we have so far done the work of data collection that is necessary in order to propose a full analysis at all, so we have managed to extend the pilot project to the entire area of Split-Dalmatia County by the end of last year. We took this county as an example because there are 55 units of local self-government, which makes up 10% of the total number in the Republic of Croatia, because they are both traffic-related, so there is both an area of the island and a region of the hinterland, large cities, some units that are closer to the big traffic routes. So all that's going to be the elements of the final analysis. And on the round table, we later stated in public that it was a very complex job because for each unit, more than 500 elements are collected, 500 data to get a full picture and this job of collecting and processing data I believe will last until at least mid-year, so that the real analysis based on serious data we are able to offer somewhere until September of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45640	Thank you. Mr. Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45641	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45642	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45643	Dear Mrs. Kosor, you're proposing Mladen Bajic as state's attorney in the third term. For six years, it takes networking and robbery in the state, and the affairs are not revealed by the police or the State's Attorney's Office, but by the media. "Brodosplit", "Maestro", trucks, "Podravka" are just the most prominent. Mladen Bajic is only asking for those HDZ personnel that have already been written off in HDZ itself. For Roncevic, he has been waiting four years for the plant to start only when he stops being interior minister. And according to Polancec, he only acts when he steps down from the post of Deputy Prime Minister. Vukelic's responsibility in "Brodosplit" is not being questioned, nor is the minister's responsibility in the "Maestro" affair about Calmeta not to speak, his driver in prison, the secretary of state, stepped down for family reasons, the crime at HAC in HZ affairs is not over. Business is being set up, he's turning around with a lot of money, but Calmet's responsibilities aren't being questioned. I ask you, do you propose that Bajic continue to listen to you as he listened to Sanader, to create the impression of fighting corruption but to continue to protect those who have brought 10 mandates to HDZ and to whom you are afraid to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45644	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45645	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, first of all, I will respond to your final findings, and I am not afraid of anything, nor of you. And now I'm going to answer your question. As you know, the government has proposed to the Croatian Parliament the election of Mladen Bajic as a state attorney in the new term, so we have taken a shot at our opinion, our analysis of why we believe that he could continue to do the duty. And that's one fact, and now about listing certain people from the government, certain people you attributed to certain acts, etc., I'm going to say something that I think you should become, that's my suggestion, to become one general place in a political space, which is that we don't destroy people before they're convicted, if there's any doubt. And as far as political parties are concerned, everyone wipes out and sweeps off their doorsteps, and then turns to others. What am I saying? Mr. Stazić, in this list of my crimes in the context of the proposal that Mr. Bajic is the chief state attorney, I remind you and remind you that the State Attorney's Office is independent, that this is how the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia imposes on all of us, including you and I, and so it must continue, so I will personally be at the head of the government and with the Government as a whole absolutely pawn. So, why in your list of people who are either suspected or against whom the procedure is being conducted, you did not, for example, list Mr Hajdić who sold state land on Mljet and why the state and we all have huge problems in relations with Russia together, for example, because it is now to be clarified because it is a large investor, and as far as I know, Mr Hajdic is still the chairman of the SDP County Committee, or at least it was. Why did you not mention in this list when you mention it and when you already delete with the people under you did not mention former Assistant Minister Lucin who was sentenced to a year and 11 months, Mr Sobola read the verdict, analyze yourself for which he was convicted, and why, of course, I could, but I will not, because I find it unworthy to extend it to Mrs. Sobola's wife, who also participated in Mr. Josipovic's campaign, which I congratulate once again, etc., if it had happened in our candidate's camp, you would have responded greatly. You do not mention all those who were involved in the affairs around Vrhnik, you do not mention, for example, Mr. Mayor Koprivnica, Mr. Mršić, against whom the application was filed, I repeat once again to all the people over whom the suspicions were raised, the reports filed, we must treat them with dignity until in the ordinary process of a valid final court ruling they are proven guilty. By then, of course, I will take up, as I said long ago and repeat today, the fight against corruption and crime without shame, until the last breath, according to anyone who has sinned about the law, was a member of the SDP, HDZ, HSLS, HSS or HNS or any other party. It's the only principle, Mr. Stazic, that can lead us to in the full sense of the rule of law, which you're supposed to advocate, but I say once again, when you wipe people's floors, sweep away at your doorstep, then you have the right to speak in the way you speak. In conclusion, we will continue to stand up for the functioning of an independent state attorney's office, let USKOK, State's Attorney's Office do its job and you in the Croatian Parliament yours and we in the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45646	Representative, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45647	The independence of the judiciary is also mentioned enough by the Justice Minister's statement a week ago, who publicly said it was untouchable. The untouchable were just under Bajic as a state's attorney. Both you and Bajic kept silent about this untouchableness for 6 years, although you had to know about the function you were performing, so I think this fight against corruption is your strong commitment to the rule of law only a play in which Bajic plays one of the roles.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45648	Thank you very much. I'm gonna have to make up some more jokes to loosen this up a little bit. Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45649	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. My question today concerns the functioning of higher schools, so of course I'm asking Mr. Fuchs the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. In recent months, there have been more and more indications that there is a crisis of governance in the higher education system in Croatia. Of course, as a result of this crisis, there are numerous speculations, media inscriptions and affairs, and in my opinion, it makes it impossible to integrate the university effectively. So my question today is for you, Mr. Minister, that with a long-published law on universities that should solve these problems, because it's been waiting very long for this legislative proposal, it's very important to regulate the conditions of study, enrollment, free schooling and so on, which you will agree with me today very current issues regarding the functioning of higher schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45650	Thank you. Mr. Minister Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45651	Thanks for asking. Your Honor, Madam Representative. It's absolutely true what you've determined and said, and I can answer from the position of the Ministry of Science that the University Act is written. YES, before being referred to in the procedure, it will be discussed at a meeting of the Rector's Assembly to be held on February 23rd, after which we will refer it to the procedure for the Government and the Parliament. The problem of the integration of the university in Croatia is one of the key problems of the functioning of higher education, which, of course, is the most expressed in our largest university, the University of Zagreb, which unfortunately works now more like holding a university, and less as a university where the rectorate would indeed have that power that belongs to it not only in the honorary duties that the Rector and rectorate carry out in terms of protocol obligations but also in order for the rectorate and the rector to get management powers as well. This is especially important when it comes to the financing of the university, resulting in a huge number of problems. Each of the colleges runs their own politics. I must also point out that unfortunately, by the 2003 Law, we lost that single lever of staff planning in the higher education system in terms of young experts coming out, because the determination of quotas for students who would study within the budget financed by the state was transferred to the full authority of the university itself, so we came up with an absurd situation that we could neither increase that lever nor reduce quotas in some colleges in order to conduct a proper policy in terms of deficiting interests. We have an additional absurd situation that today appears to be the very colleges where, let's say, there are fewer, which have very high pressures because of the attractiveness deliberately within the university itself asked for a reduction in the number of students who studied with the support of the state just so that they could charge as many students as possible. Likewise, I must remind myself that during this very period, that law, it was possible for that quota of students to have personal needs, which is actually participating in the 10% schooling, to reach 50% and 60%, respectively. So it is quite clear that something needs to be done in this system and that is what we want to do with this law. In this proposal, the law will also conclude a contract between the individual university and the ministry in terms of funding, total financing including material costs, capital investments and the cost of studying students themselves for a period of 3 years, requiring the university to draw up a clear budget for 1st, 2nd and 3rd year after which, as a state budget, plans to operate, develop and even organise the university itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45652	Thank you. Mrs. Zeljana Kalash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45653	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your answer. I am very pleased with him. In terms of this supplement that you have commented on, so deficiting occupations in colleges, I also congratulate you on the document that you lacked, and as it is said it has been adopted on the basis of the best European experiences. It is therefore a regulation of accreditation that should address the issue of issuing licences for the implementation of study programmes, and as part of this new law that you have announced for the end of February, it seems that it will solve many of the problems that are currently the current issue in the university world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45654	Thank you. It's Mrs. Maria Lugaric's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45655	Dear Mr. Minister Fuchs, I have a question for you. In recent days, we have listened again and read the news of violence among children in schools. Violence, which despite government claims not only decreases but is increasingly more and more brutal. However, we have seen in determining the agenda that this fact is denied here by the parliamentary majority in the Assembly but you also deny that fact from the Government and the Ministry. The proof of your inconclusiveness is the state budget. So I ask you what exactly you mean to do to prevent violence in schools, and how do you think in that prevention to be effective when in the budget you planned 80 lip per student per year? That's half as much as it was last year and that's more than four times less than was planned to prevent violence four years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45656	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Radovan Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45657	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, of course we are witnessing violence among students in schools, it is not the original product of the Republic of Croatia, it is a problem that all other countries are dealing with not only within the EU but generally and beyond. We are just in talks and agreements with colleagues from the Austrian Ministry of Education on a joint meeting at the level of experts from the resolution ministries who would exchange experiences and perhaps even propose some common guidelines to successfully combat the violence we naturally witness. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has a whole series of programmes to implement. A month and a half ago, we also had a large presentation that was all from the ministry, but also in cooperation with the Ministry of the Family, with the Ministry of Interior, taken and implemented, but I also have to mention in cooperation with the Embassy of the Republic of France and some materials that have been made available to us through the embassy so that we can use them in terms of some brochures. So it's about preventing violence among young people, preventing and using drugs and addiction as well as violent behavior on sports grounds. It is all together a comprehensive program that enters schools, with which young people are equally educated because one generates another. Ministry and professional services, of course, go out on the field in schools when some cases are found out. Of course we can't keep surveillance at all schools all the time. What we can do, we can implement programs, talk, educate students, but also their parents. That's what's going on. What you said about funds being cut. It's not about cutting funds. If you calculate by student then we can talk about whether the number of students has increased, reduced the number of students, how much funds have been reduced. It's about the use of funds. If the funds are well directed, you will have more effect with less resources than by wasting more money on inadequate programmes. I think the Ministry is very successful in implementing this programme. Moreover, the entire government stands behind it and is specifically concerned about the serious problem it is taking into account and that all activities in terms of preventing violence both in schools and in the wider co-ordination of one of the vice-presidents of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45658	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45659	I'm glad you brought up the program, but are you aware of the bizarreness and absurdity of the situation that, according to your program, such tables have been placed in schools, this is a zero tolerance to violence. Under these tables are the worst cases of violence and the last one. So much for your program, while you're talking, thinking, bringing in programs, kids getting beat up. So I ask you to give me a concrete answer to the question I asked you. How are you going to spend this year's 400 thousand kuna on all children to prevent violence? Not what seems to happen when violence happens, but at prevention. These panels were placed in front of schools, stemming from the signing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the current prime minister very proudly placed them in schools, but other than the board nothing happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45660	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45661	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable Prime Ministers with ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr Milinovic. Even though we have already heard about the application of the Law on Medical Insemination one part of the answer through the asked question of MP Jerkovic and you, Mr Minister, have already said that the positive effects of the application of this law in such a way that 17% increase the number of procedures, as 23% increase the number of pregnancies. I ask you, do you have any other indicators within this three-month period in the application of the law, so that in public, and we hear different misinformations may actually testify to the correct application and preliminary indicators of the positive application of the Law on Medical Insemination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45662	Thank you. Vice President Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45663	Thank you very much. Of course I have 15 more minutes to speak, but it's my chance to refute the SDP misinformation and it's good that Parliamentarian Jerkovic is there. He says doctors praise Milinovic's law. It's not a profession for her. Therefore, public support for Milinovic's law was given by Croatian gynecologists gathered at a convention in Brijuni last weekend. It's not a profession, it's a Croatian gynecologist. I guess they're better Slovenian. It may be, but we should respect ours. The profession supported the Law on Medical Insemination. All misinformation from the SDP ranks. When they wore white shirts by the way, if you might have noticed those white shirts were a little yellow when we passed the Law on Medical Insemination, because they said, "When the heart says child, the government says no." This is what they meant in 2000 when they abolished maternity leave, reduced maternity benefits, and the T-shirts were printed at that time in 2000 and slightly yellowed by 2009. At that time we had the smallest number of children born, we recovered President for seven years. We were able to recover this year. This isn't news. After five years, after the new law, I believed in our doctors and we succeeded from a second attempt. She's overjoyed by the D.S. After five years. The old law failed to make this life's dream come true with this new law. This is not news, because it was done by Croatian gynecologists, Croatian experts. Happy news came in after five years, everyone was excited. Besides SDP, they weren't excited, because the message "Rodo" to the people, even though I know it can be counterproductive. Don't fly over SDP misinformation because you can't fly with those wings. As they said, the EU is unhappy with the law, and this was a criterion for closing chapter 28, because it is an EU deficit. The European Union is satisfied with the law. Waiting lists. That's not news, dear SDP friends. That's not news. Before this law, the waiting lists for medical insemination were 14 months. I don't know, President. You got that yesterday. It's six months today. It's not, it's not good. We will not allow any of this, one article by Adlesic, the right to a child must not... We won't even let an exclusive HSLS watch it. This is what the Croatian Democratic Community is looking for, and this must not be the right of the rich. If you don't know what "Gross" is, I know what "Roda" is, you don't know what "Gross". It is the voice of parents for children who care and who have about 40,000 members and a series, a series of data that according to the new law we invested in this part of the medical profession at the time of the crisis, the recession of another 30 million kunas. "Roda" is when you were in power of the SDP with your coalition partners, for four years asking you not to pay three procedures but four. We have allowed 6 procedures, and this is not news for "Rode", because it must not have been brought by the SDP, but by the Croatian Democratic Community with its coalition partners. And we've changed the relationship to that part and that branch of medicine. We invested in our experts a million kuna last year, the recession year, and as prime minister, as long as it takes, this year to get the results as well as these 6 months 17% more procedures, 23% more pregnancy under the new law. And it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45664	Thank you. Mrs. Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45665	Thank you very much. Well, here's Mr. Minister, you've given yourself enough arguments to conclude that in the shortest possible duration of a year, the application of this law will get even better results and make even more couples happy in the process, as well as in the pregnancy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45666	Thank you. It is Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45667	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice President with members of the government. I will refer my question to the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Ms. Marina Matulović-Dropulic. So after the fire broke out in the Sisak refinery on 16 January this year, we must surely be as concerned as all the citizens of Sisak, and particularly among them the issue of the safety of the work of modernisation, investment in the Sisak refinery. Certainly, some other environmental incidents that occurred in the refinery and the plants caused concern. But the media immediately sees the headlines "Life in the Refinery", "The Extinguishment of the Refinery", fearing 3,000 people for jobs and so forth. My question to you, Minister, is what we could read in the media, and after that fire, I have to say here thanks to the fire departments, that it was really and successfully shut down, there was a question of quality, re-quality of air in Sisak. Please, Minister, tell all of us, and first of all to the citizens of Sisak, what is happening, why is this and what is being done about the quality of air in the city of Sisak?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45668	Thank you. Ms. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45669	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, most of you know that the first programme of modernization of the Refinery in Sisak was made on the basis of the government's conclusion on 15 July 2004, that INA really did it, that it received the consent of both our Ministry and the Ministry of Economy, that we discussed in the Croatian Parliament the problem of modernising the refinery and the quality of air in Sisak, and that we formed a commission in which the commission is also an environmental action from Sisak and the Institute for Health Protection as well as members of certain ministries. This committee shall monitor the quality of the air continuously but also the course of modernisation of the refinery and report on the basis of the conclusions of this Assembly to our Environment Protection Committee. The fact is that there is a very good modernisation of the Sisak Refinery, however, it really costs a lot. The fact is also that modernization is something other than complete construction. In order to make it a different situation to completely break off production, modernize and then drive. However, we know that at that time people would be jobless and that it was simply impossible to do so. And that's why it's decided that modernization takes place parallel to production. It should also be said that we are not talking about the quality of air in Sisak. In the center of Sisak is air 1st category. We're talking exclusively about the Caprag settlement where I have to say that from 2007 until the end of last year it's very much done, that we now have air category 1 for sulfur dioxide, benzene and for floating particles but that the 3rd category is also for sulfur hydrogen. And it'll take more. And that's why there's a variety of outbursts in modernization itself. It'll come to that as long as Coking doesn't go through with it. Klaus is finished and that's why we got rid of the sulfur dioxide and of course this investment that's scheduled to end by the end of 2011. We continuously and follow the work and issue with environmental protection inspection and by the commission of certain tasks INA performs for short-term measures that must be carried out because this modernisation is still long-term measures, for these short-term measures and I must say that INA measures and implements them. Therefore, we would be as happy as the citizens of Capraga or the whole of Sisak to solve the problem as soon as possible, but everything has its own time. You can't break up and say here by moving this wand we'll all air will be first quality. We'll do everything we can to keep track of it, the commission will do its job. I ask the citizens of Caprak to accept this situation a little more, but they themselves have declared that the air is still much better than it was two years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45670	Thank you. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45671	Thank you, Madam Minister. And in Sisak, people are aware that the air is much better and it's good that this committee that was founded in 2007 is monitoring quality. I must point out here that the mayor of the city of Sisak held the same thing with the management of the INA of the refinery of oil one meeting and removed that apprehensive among the Syrians that the refinery is shutting down and not investing in it. I believe 2011 is not far, I believe that we will follow this pace of modernisation and that what has been happening in Sisak for years with these incidents will indeed be an ecological end and that we will really live in that environment that we deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45672	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45673	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. On July 30th last year in a package with so-called By increasing VAT, the introduction of excise duty on mobile telephony has also changed this home on your proposal to the Employment Intermediation and Rights Act during unemployment, which changes in unemployment benefits almost halved. It was a very painful, very radical measure that shocked many unemployed people especially those who became unemployed after that date. One of the firm arguments that you asked us to adopt was that this would create a savings of 15 million kuna in 2009 and 30 million kuna in 2010 which would actually help to preserve jobs in the so-called so-called ". the grant programme on the 5th working day. So those companies that are moving to job layoffs because of the crisis and recession offered them the possibility that the government would subsidize their 5th working day a week to keep these workers at work. I am interested in how much or what effect this measure has had, how many companies have asked for it, how many and how many workers, or how many jobs have we preserved with that measure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45674	Thank you. Madam President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45675	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Representative. At first, I will suggest that since you have asked very detailed questions, I will answer you in writing. So, in that question, there are several sub-questions that seem particularly important to me and let me not have all the data in my head at all times, so I'm going to answer you in writing. You are right, so we have also passed the Job Support Act, which is called the Law, and on this basis we have secured 200 million kunas. So 200 million kunas were secured in the state budget or through rebalancing precisely to support firms in difficulty means for this unworked Friday as it was called. However, what I have to say is what surprised me, but it is so that I can explain to you in writing why, according to our analysis, and above all, the Ministry of Economy. The employers were mostly uninterested and that's my information for using these funds. And if good memory serves me, but I'm going to check it out and answer you in writing, about 40 million kunas seems to have been used on the basis of this program that we needed, or through which we secured 200 million kunas through the budget rebalance. And that's why we've had these experiences with and with this model, and we're going to go to these new models that I repeat once again, in our fullness we actually represent and let in tomorrow's government session so that companies that didn't have problems until 30 July 2008 will be able to absolutely apply to these projects, that is, these loans. As for unemployment benefits, yes, she was halved, it's true and we made it very clear why, simply because at times when we had to decide on a special tax, it was clear that the money in that charge was provided until then for the unemployment benefits couldn't be and we, as you know, also made some degrees. Therefore, I think it is good and that we are investing not in increasing unemployment benefits but in hiring the unemployed, so to keep jobs and to create jobs. And I believe with tomorrow's, wide open door at the government's session through very clear criteria who will be able to get those loans, or who will be able to get that wind in the back, that a lot of things will still at the pleasure and you as advocates will run. And what I finally want to say, which I believe you'll welcome, in those criteria that we're still grinding today, is one thing that's clear. There won't be any political influence, so you won't be able to call for any company, not you, not me, not the Deputy Prime Minister, not any representative. Only on the basis of clear economic sustainability criteria, i.e. the economic future and perspective, and support through loans will be available. Thank you very much and follow the written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45676	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45677	I look forward to your answer, but in advance, please don't answer this about the economic incentive program, but only about the spending of these funds on the cover of the fifth working day. According to unofficial information that I have only one company in the Republic of Croatia has received these funds, and on the other hand 8 thousand people have lost their jobs in the last 25 days alone. People are desperate. I'm telling you that I've never seen so many despairs around me in my life, because it's simply such a situation that many who have lost their jobs and are not registered, because the first ones were killed by fees and people on contracts that have no rights or on this small fee that we therefore cut in half in July last year. Please keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45678	Thank you. He's going to ask Mrs. Mirella Holly a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45679	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Shuker. Many people in Croatia have decided in recent days to help the victims in the Haitian earthquake, but in this noble intention, they were taken away by the fact that by calling the donor number of the Red Cross phones, they donate not only the victims but also you. They want to pay their money to help children who have lost their parents, who have no food, water or medicine, and when it turns out that they are actually filling the state budget because in those 6.15 kunas, VAT is also calculated by invitation. My question is, why is VAT accounted for and donations, and do you think that's moral?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45680	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Minister Ivan Schuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45681	Thank you very much. And thank you for this question, because the government has not once shown how to react in such situations. The value added tax is therefore in line with the legislation and directives of the European Union. As it is in Europe, so is ours. However, when you asked this question, then you should have remembered not one humanitarian action that was led in Croatia where when the action was completed, when the account was taken of all calls, what was the amount of calls, what was the amount of value added tax, the request was submitted, the Ministry of Finance proposed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted and that amount was paid to the jury account to which this humanitarian aid was collected. Therefore, there is no reason that those who have launched this action to do the exact same thing and the government will react in exactly the same way as it has done many times already. Therefore, I can document to you exactly which humanitarian actions it was made for and how much money it was made for. You can see that at the end of the line in the People's Newspaper, it's published. However, we will not allow anyone under the cover of humanitarian work or anything to draw money from another side. I think you'll support it as a representative. So, the proposal to those who organised the humanitarian action, when the action was completed, to illustrate the amount of VAT, the government of the Republic of Croatia will make a decision as it has done, as I say in countless cases so far. However, we will not allow any abuse of humanitarian resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45682	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45683	Minister Shuker, I hope this doesn't mean that you suspect the Red Cross to use some kind of abuse on such humanitarian property. Anyway, I don't think that no matter what you've said, you're not going to pay that VAT in principle on that gyro budget, you're not going to charge the VAT again on that amount that the government is going to donate. And I think this is about one shamelessness, and it's as if it's not enough for you to impose a harbinger on people on their small pensions and minor salaries, but now you're still taking away from what's meant for the children who died in Haiti.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45684	Thank you. Mr. Shima Djurdjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45685	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam President of the Croatian Government, Ministers in Government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr Tomislav Ivić. Mr. Minister, the theme is housing for the victims of the Homeland War. How much and where is currently in the phase of building apartments for the victims of the Homeland War, how many and what locations are we in preparation and related to, the third sub-question, when are we finally going to do this very extensive work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45686	Thank you. Mr. Minister Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45687	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. At this moment, at the end of 35 apartments in two locations, in Ogulin 20 apartments, in Crikvenica 15 apartments, and in the stage of preparation for construction there are 628 apartments at 11 locations in Knin 38 apartments, Dubrovnik 81 apartments, Slunj 23 apartments, Ploče 10 apartments, Zagreb Vrbani 59 apartments, Zagreb Duboki jarek 180 apartments, Zagreb Sopnica south 100 apartments, Zadar 65 apartments, Bjelovar 38 apartments, Podstrana 16 apartments and Biograd na moru 18 apartments. Therefore, it is evident from this that this programme of residential care of Croatian defenders who have the right to do so under the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders will go and that apartments will be built for the needs of the family of Croatian defenders in this and the following years. It's hard of course at this point to say when we're going to bring this program to an end. Of course, everything depends on the amount of funds, i.e. on the financial opportunities. But I think the most important thing is that this program goes despite this crisis and recession. And this year, of course, the state budget provided housing funds either by building apartments for the needs of Croatian defenders' families, whether it is loans to improve conditions or to buy on the market individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45688	Thank you. Mr. Shima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45689	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that in these difficult times this programme continues throughout Croatia, and we hope that we will soon end this programme so that the Government of Croatia can re-use that part of the funds for those purposes where it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45690	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45691	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is for the ministries of the economy of Mr. Djuru Popiè. Mr. Poppie, you're the new economy minister, and you've been expected to be very much. Unfortunately, very little has been expected. Since you took office, no measures have been taken or the economy is recovering. In fact, it's gone down further. Still, the worst is for those who lose their jobs. You haven't even paid off all the money planned to finance the employment and education of unemployed people. One twist closes every hour in Croatia. Over 7,000 crafts have been closed in the past year, almost three times the previous year and 15000 jobs have been lost in crafts. A total of 190.000 people in Croatia lost their jobs last year, which means that a day without a job remained on average for the new 518 people. So, only in 70 days how many of you are the minister of unemployment has increased in Croatia by over 3600. My question, Mr. Minister, do you, as the new Minister of Economy, have any new ideas that are probably full of what good advice or recommendation in what way and from which hundreds of thousands of unemployed and their families survive from the first to the first in the month?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45692	Thank you. Mr. Minister Djuro Poppie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45693	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. This is a kind of baptism, so obviously a fire at the beginning. This is my first parliamentary question since I was a minister. Here, I thank you for the opportunity to answer your question. The Croatian economy is in a difficult situation and no one is challenging it. However, it is not quite able and is not in an unexplainable situation as you try here and present this situation. This situation has not occurred in my 70 days since I was a minister, but it is precisely the result of a number of years of structural problems of the Croatian economy, but it is also primarily the impact of the global financial and economic crisis, which has shifted from several months to maybe even a year over Croatian borders and has hit its strength of course on the Croatian economy. And right in the last quarter, I think it's reached its maximum and its zenith. What the new economy minister will do with his team will propose and propose and propose measures to the Croatian government for which the prime minister has already given a number of concrete answers to your questions. The Croatian economy has gone some way into the state and well-being and high growth rates by 2007, 2008 and, of course, everything that has happened to our environment and the structural problems of our economy are also evident in the problems today. We will certainly have to go the same way and return and reach the maximum possible growth rates in this year that are estimated at a certain level and that will be the first effect of stopping this negative trend in employment. I think that these measures, therefore, that will come directly, will bring the new financial incentives most of the effects exactly in the next time that is ahead. Nothing can help workers, people who remain jobless but a successful, quality entrepreneurship and an economy that will have to move simply into the use of these financial instruments as objectively as possible. But, of course, new measures will also be needed and as regards the disbursement of the economy and the motivation of entrepreneurs and our citizens to enter new ventures, to enter new investment projects which can only thus ensure new employability and halt this negative trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45694	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45695	Unfortunately, Ministers, this bureaucratic response, I doubt it will help anyone, and I believe that tens of thousands of Croatian citizens who don't know how to feed their family, how to pay back the loans they have raised, how to ensure their children's education and probably didn't understand what you've told them. I believe you have a good will, so I invite all these thousands of citizens to report to the ministry personally, where I believe you will find enough time to help them with your advice on how to survive from month to month.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45696	Thank you. It's Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45697	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President of the Croatian Government and Ministers, I would like to refer my question to Mrs. President of the Croatian Government, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here's yesterday's edition of the prominent British daily "The Guardian" included Dubrovnik among the world's 20 most desirable destinations for Valentine's Day. You'll agree that it wouldn't be convenient if the power went out or maybe it would be convenient. In any case, we know that Dubrovnik is, by all means, specific, even by this geographically specific location, at the end of Croatia. There is not another mile, not one metre of highway in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, no speech due to the crisis of Dubrovnik gasification. So we're completely dependent on electricity, or electricity. I know all of Croatia has learned about the recent situation. Untrusted power supply, power supply. So we don't have any heating or cooling. So summer and winter are at stake. The main branch of the economy is tourism. So it's about the citizens, and the Dubrovnik economy that depends on the current. It's been done a lot so far. The labs were made, the evaluations were made, the various studies. There are already major projects and location permits for trafostations. However, the main part is now coming, and this is the financial side, are coming building permits, i.e. confirmation of the main project and funding. I know that you, Madam President, are familiar with the situation, I know that you have received local leaders, I know that today the director of Croatia's electricity company Mr. Begovic is in Dubrovnik at a meeting. However, to ensure that this issue is not only important for Dubrovnik, but also for Croatia and as we can see for the wider European and world public, what the Croatian Government intends to do, as it intends to resolve the issue of Dubrovnik. Because we know, we're aware that the financial crisis, that it's big money, but in any case the question, or the problem of Dubrovnik, is still unsustainable, so please answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45698	Thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45699	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs, so let me look back at the beginning of these beautiful British list reviews of Dubrovnik as a great and best destination for Valentine's Day. It would be great to come to Dubrovnik for Valentine's Day, but I can't be sure. And as far as electricity is concerned, and in the light of population policy, I am not in favour of increasing population policy in the Republic of Croatia in any area. I think we need to do this by other measures, primarily by government and local administration, or self-government. You have every right, this problem that has happened, which we have witnessed and after which I immediately received both Mr. Mayor and Mayor and President of HEP's administration in the government to consider what and how and how the HEP will be involved, how the city, how the county, and of course how the government in general will be involved. I think it was a good meeting. We agreed to continue our talks if I could make it to St. Peter's Day. Vlach in Dubrovnik, so... And maybe even visit the terrain where certain buildings would be built. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a big project in total, in the end it's supposed to invest more than half a billion kuna in this year, and I think it's good, through HEP projects 80 to 100 million kuna, then in next year and I think 250 if I remember correctly, and then the rest. Therefore, a major project that begins immediately. As far as I know about, here are some facilities already under construction permit and I believe there will be opportunities to talk about it again in Dubrovnik itself, and I think the outcome of the building permit for the Srđ facilities is predictable by February 15th. So it could just happen to be for Valentine's Day. In any case, the Government takes this problem seriously, because it has now happened in winter, the power shortage in such a long time in summer it would be a disaster and one bad message of course to all our guests who come to Dubrovnik of course as a unique pearl of the world. Therefore, I agree with you, all efforts should be made. As far as the government is concerned, you can be sure that's how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45700	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45701	And I want to thank Mrs. Prime Minister for these words, thank you for understanding that you have done everything so far. And I want to say once again that the Dubrovnikers are patient, but this is a Dubrovnik priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45702	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45703	Thank you. My question is to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Madam Prime Minister, you are familiar with the problems that some of our citizens face, a circus of 18 thousand living in the border area with Slovenia, from Međimurka, Varazdin County, Krapina-Zagorska, concluded with Istria, and their problem stems from the fact that they are daily migrants, living in Croatia and working in Slovenia. As a result, they do not have the right to children's allowance, they do not have the right to tax returns, they do not have the right to credit, and there is a particular problem in particular for citizens who have lost their jobs in Slovenia because only because they live in Croatia, in Slovenia they do not have the right to receive compensation and are not entitled to receive compensation, and just because they work in Slovenia in Croatia at the Employment Office they are also not provided with any compensation or health insurance. To protect these citizens, they have secured an association in the area of Pregrada, Huma na Sutla, Rightnić, Đurmanca. They introduced you to this problem while you were Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On two occasions, they were with Minister Jandrokovic. Former Economy Minister Mr Polancec and Vice-President of the Parliament Mr Jarnjak were also introduced. They also met the problem of Slovenian Prime Minister Pahor, on two occasions they were with him and in 2007 the Slovenian government sent a proposal for a bilateral agreement, but on our part there is no answer, and there is no new proposal, and our citizens are still in existential problems just because they live in Croatia and work in Slovenia. My question is, what are you going to do when and what are those citizens who have no right to social compensation, who have no right to health care?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45704	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45705	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, here's what I believe you'll allow me not to have all the information on this problem either. You said yourself that it was about 18 grand, if I understood correctly, of citizens, so day-to-day migrants. I will personally deal with seeing, you said yourself that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration received these people on two occasions, to see what was possible. I don't think there's a single problem either, so there has to be at least some compromise solution that people will be somewhat satisfied with, I agree with you that this is a problem. As far as I know, international documents, but neither our laws nor our regulations actually see a solution to that problem, but I agree with you that the situation is not sustainable, and that we must seek and try to find solutions. So here, I suggest, since I see that you are more personally aware that you may make a note with a possible view of what direction we could go, and I will ask Prime Minister Pahor to see what they suggest in this regard, whether they also have a compromise solution, and to try to solve what are actually called existential issues of these people, it seems to me most important, so if you have any further information, a suggestion, suggest to me, and I will try to answer you in as short a time as possible which way and which trail we could go to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45706	Thank you. Mr. Representative Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45707	Thank you very much. So I think your answer is also very constructive, unlike all those events, because this problem has been present for 19 years, since the collapse of the former state. The proposal was very constructive, the association that had been communicating with you, has had communication with Minister Jandrokovic, with Vice-President of Parliament Jarnjak, on several occasions this story has been going on for 19 years, I will direct them, he has a concrete proposal, and I repeat, the Slovenian side has sent a proposal for a solution in 2007 and the Slovenian state to all its citizens who are also day-to-day migrants, regardless of whether to Austria or Croatia has solved this problem long ago. Therefore, solutions exist, should only be of good faith and responsibility to solve the problem on time, obviously the problem has arisen. Thank you very much, I'm asking for a written answer, and I'm going to refer their proposal to that association at your address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45708	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bogovic will ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45709	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Prime Ministers with vice-presidents, ministers and ministers. My colleagues and colleagues are asking questions for the Minister of Science, Education and Sports of Mr Fuchs. Mr Ministers, we know your announcements about the necessary reforms in science and education, some of you have already spoken about today, and since the state budget is limited, my question is what does the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports do in preparation for the withdrawal of the funds for the sciences from the pre-accession funds of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45710	Mr. President, Mr. Representative. This question could be answered in a narrow and wider context. I suppose it is more focused in terms of the organisation of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in terms of making it more efficient to withdraw pre-accession funds but certainly structural funds that follow after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. At this point we are doing what we think is most effectively taught by the experience of a very successful organisation at the level of the Ministry which resulted in the success of the Republic of Croatia in obtaining projects from 7. The Framework Programme of the European Union, where our scientific institutions of course and universities have been prepared in such a way that we belong to a number of countries that are among the new Member States of the European Union one of the most successful in withdrawing these funds of scientific projects. Here is less than a month ago, or perhaps a little less has arrived notice that our largest Institute "Ruđer Boskovic" received a million-and-a-half-euro project in one of the segments of the FREYVOR programme. It's a repote program. Within pre-accession funds are set up individual organisational units in those administrations of the Ministry that can and apply to these funds. It is in the first row of the Science Administration, which in the meantime received a total of 6m euros for so-called. The programme to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy regarding the science of high-tech and secondary education, where around 4m euros are planned for further development and work on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, one of the projects that this country has really successfully launched and for which we are contacted by several Member States, who want to work together with us with our experience on their national qualifications frameworks. To better prepare ourselves, since we already have prepared projects in the system of science and education for the next calls from the IPA programme that will follow during the year, for about 100 million euros, therefore, it is also about university programmes and scientific programmes. Very soon, the reconstruction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will follow where a private administration for European projects will be formed, which would then definitely unite all these activities from individual administrations and be precisely the core of what would apply in the future to funds for the Structural Funds of the European Union. Since funding or withdrawing resources for the purpose of building scientific infrastructure as well as for the possibility of infrastructure at universities, therefore building facilities and such, are almost nothing or would say minimal if this applies to 7. The Framework Programme and also at the Commission of the European Union whose competence is education, the great opportunities exist in the Structural Funds, where certain segments can be very well funded precisely from what is not primarily seen as a basic activity and the intention of these Structural Funds. These are the experiences of some countries smaller than the Czech Republic, Slovakia and some Baltic countries, and we intend to go that way. And just, I'm saying, we've organised all the preconditions that at the most recent time in the ministry, a private administration is being set up to take care of these projects exclusively, but also to support both the university community and the scientific community.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45711	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Bogovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45712	I thank you, Mr. Minister, and I want you to continue to successfully implement all the programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45713	Thank you. It's Mr. Zdravko Kelic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45714	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Regional Development, Mr Pankretic. Mr Minister, what is the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy doing in the area of use of forest biomass as a renewable energy source?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45715	Thank you. Mr. Vice President and Minister Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45716	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, so I'll take the opportunity to say a few words about forest biomass. I think the Croatian public should know that unfortunately here we have an extremely large potential which unfortunately is still not used enough. As far as we all know, a large part of the wood mass unfortunately remains in the woods and rots, and can be used as much as possible. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is taking certain steps, and I will note what this is about because I think there is some data to be known about. Today in Croatia we have forest and forest land at 2 million and 688 thousand hectares. The total supply when we talk about wood mass is almost 400 million metres of cubic wood mass, and of which, on an annual level, the possibility of use is about 6 and a half million metres of cubic meters. When we see it, we in this part of our energy efficiency remain almost two and a half million cubic meters to be used in this respect. Given that Croatia's energy development strategy in this part is very clear that by 2020 it is necessary to reach 20% of the share of renewable energy sources. We think there's a big chance, including this part of the forest biomass. We support these programmes, and since 2006, an operational programme for the development of the wood processing industry of the Republic of Croatia has been in place and I will say that 167 projects related to energy use of biomass have been co-financed. We have also allocated a 65 million kuna aid for this year, where we believe for sure there will be projects that will relate to the use of biomass. Perhaps it is important here especially to point out that we have a project... for public-purpose facilities in areas of special public concern which are also well-implemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I am particularly emphasising and what will interest not only the Croatian public but especially investors who have many, which is that we have started the process and will tomorrow be at the Government of the Republic of Croatia to publish a public tender where all those interested in forest biomass can come forward in cooperation with the Croatian forests where long-term contracts can be concluded in a certain way guaranteeing the supply of such companies. And I have to say that the interest is extremely high and I believe that very soon, in some short time, we will have bioenergy that will be driven by forest biomass. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45717	Thank you. Mr. Zdravko Kelić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45718	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I also believe all Croatian citizens that in the future we do not have to worry about the expensive energy that is here today, unfortunately, expensive and we are paying.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45719	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Biljić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45720	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, I refer my question to Mr. Defence Minister, Mr. Vukelic. It's about streamlining the network of the Administration and the Defence Office. Mr. Minister, we know the role of management and the office of defense before the war, during the war and after the war, and we know that these people have done a great job in defending the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. But we are also aware that we have had to bring about recent amendments to the legislation that allows for the rationalisation of the defence administration and office. My question is at what stage is the rationalization of the networks, and what can we expect?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45721	Thank you. Mr. Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45722	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for this issue that is extremely important for us at the Ministry of Defence, but also for the government because it is one reorganization of the state administration that carries everything that is actually what we expect today to be reorganized. First of all, one big rationalization. You yourself made assumptions about this were created last year when the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments to the Defence Act. Those are legal, formal assumptions. Real assumptions were created, simply, by life. Jobs, assignments, as you said, are no longer the same as they were during the Homeland War or after the war. We no longer have a mandatory military service, no more status as defenders. So a lot of these jobs and tasks are no longer done in these offices and administrations, and the organisation and organisation is still very similar today, I would say a dozen or more years ago. We have 20 defense offices today, we have 78 defense offices, we have 36 defense departments. A total of 134 structural units we have when it comes to these jobs, there will be only 33 new organizations. We will have 4 district departments in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka and we will have 29 Department for Defence Affairs. This means a lot of savings when it comes to officials, but also when it comes to business spaces, because today we have a systematicized around 609 jobs for these defence jobs. There will be 312 jobs under the new structure. When we look at the filling of these jobs or these homes today we have 470 employees, the new structure will be about 312. So, somewhere 160 officers less. Also, when we see that the number of departments is far less, that the administration is gone, there will be departments that mean that 85 business spaces will be available to either the ministry, or other ministries, or cities and municipalities. This means less municipal and other material costs for 85 places where our officials have worked so far, and this amounts to kunas, our estimates are at an annual level saving about 5 million material costs. Somewhere around 13 million kunas when it comes to employees' salaries. So a total of about 18 million kunas. The question is clear, what about those surpluses of 150, 160 employees? They will be deployed to the offices of the armed forces where they therefore have needs, they will be able to deploy to other organisational units of our ministry or other ministries, or they will be offered the severance for which the ministry is in this annual budget and foresaw 25 million kunas. In any case, no one will remain unsettled, but this new organization will provide one I would say greater efficiency, efficiency and satisfaction of all of those needs that we expect these people to meet when it comes to today's establishment and the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45723	Thank you. Mr. Mato Biljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45724	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with the answer anyway. And I especially thank you for the way of understanding and the way that there are no extra people, so that people who have worked on these jobs don't go to the labour market for years, but simply redistribute in your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45725	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45726	Madam Prime Minister, since our last assembly session, so for a little over a month, we've had the opportunity to read such media inscriptions. The titles are 21. 12. 4 days before Christmas, "A new heavy train accident took place at Zagreb's Main Station early this morning. A passenger train from Sisak entered the station without a brake and crashed full speed into a concrete bouncer. The result of the accident of 60 injured by two of them, and one injured with a severe head and spine injury was subjected to a very complex operation. His life is in danger." 3.1. this year, "At the train station in Novska, two cars of the passenger government that travels from Sunja to Novska jumped out of the tracks." 11. 1. 2010. "At Sisak-Caprag Railway Station, a high voltage transformer flew into thousands of pieces on the passenger government's locomotive. Fortunately, none of the passengers at that time stood on a platform that must have avoided a bloody tragedy. On that same station only a month ago, the train severely injured one woman and inflicted life-threatening injuries." All this in the last month in just one county. Here you go, Madam Prime Minister. What do you have to say to the Sisans, the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County and the citizens of Croatia about this?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45727	Thank you. Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45728	Mr. President, I would like to pray that this is "The current morning" and that according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, the MPs at "The current morning" must ask concrete questions, and no, it is not intended to read news reports, several news reports and to say the Prime Ministers, please. So, I don't understand, so you may not be happy with what I'm about to say, but I'm going to try very hard to read what you actually wanted to ask. So if the question was to be that this is happening in some area, then I think it's simply a clear coincidence. And this first example, as I recall, was not in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, but in Zagreb. But let's let it go now, that's irrelevant. So around these attacks on people, the fact that someone was badly injured and that someone was crossing the track when he was supposed to or when he shouldn't, I wouldn't comment on that because it just happens. You know, you can see for yourself that many accidents occur, not only by rail but also by traffic, in which various people participate, and I think of course that it is not good to bring what can happen to anyone in any relationship with their intention or with anything like that. About the accident that took place in Zagreb, I personally became very interested in and received information that was accurate, so that the locomotive was actually, the first thought that maybe something old, took time, that maybe something was working out, that it hadn't changed in time, that it didn't buy in time and that there was a problem, but that locomotive was right before that on the remont as far as I know and it was absolutely all right. So the fact is that obviously a lot of attention still needs to be directed towards the railroad, the fact is that we are also at different pressures, so we need to cut costs, we need to cut subsidies, we need to cut the money that's being invested here and there. And we invested money in the railways, it's a fact, under the pressure of everything and everything, everything and everyone and everyone. But what I think we can say is that this system works. Accidents happen. I agree with you to make the most of the effort to make them happen less and less. There have been various cases of crime that has been removed in railways, and I must also point out the role of a minister who has personally discovered and personally reported a lot. I think it's important to point out. What I would like to conclude is, therefore, that I am being fenced and I ask you to respect if you are not satisfied with my answer, because there were no questions. So, the government will continue to monitor the entire rail system, try to modernise as soon as possible everything that is possible, and here I see a great perspective, and therefore we are trying to speed up the conclusion of negotiations for entry into the European Union, a great perspective from the funds that are being provided to us, which are being opened to us precisely modernise, for example, the railway across Croatia. So, of course, the elimination of what is completely inconclusive, but the maximum investment in what is needed, which contributes to the development of the economy. I mean, of course, the river line towards Zagreb, but also other directions. And in that sense, if you still feel that I should do something both in writing and in answer, perhaps in this explanation later, or in showing satisfaction or dissatisfaction and ask that question, I will be very happy to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45729	Thank you. Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45730	Madam Prime Minister, let me explain. The suffering of a woman in Sisak-Caprag on the station is the result of the fact that for five years in this House I have been asking to ensure that 2.5 million kuna for the construction of a pasarella. The entire settlement of the Caprag Ironworks is the same which has been poisoned by seven, eight colossals of old people, women, children, crossing because they will not invest 2.5 million kunas. The city is willing to enter that story. Secondly, I cited these examples from an environment I'm familiar with. The situation with the railroad is more than catastrophic. You and I don't travel by train either. I'll call you if you want one with Minister Calmett, with HZ's office. 15.46, 16.46, choose which term you want to go from Zagreb to Sisak to see what India looks like in Croatia. On two cars, several hundred people every day, students, students, trying to push themselves in. Please write a written answer to what are short-term, medium-term measures. Don't adopt a strategy here that has neither deadline nor money secured. What are we going to do here now and immediately make the situation on the railroad better?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45731	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45732	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the government. My question concerns the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and is concrete. I'm asking Minister Gordan Jandrokovic. Mr. Minister, recently from HSP counterpart Daniel Sr., we could hear statements that Croatian foreign policy is quoted as "inactive, focused exclusively on relations with Slovenia and accession negotiations with the European Union and that there is no strategy". It is also wrong to ignore relations with the US, China, India and the Russian Federation, whose strengthening would be important for the Croatian economy. Mr. Minister, please answer me and familiarise yourself with what concrete activities and what concrete activities our diplomacy carries out and with the aim of diversifying the overall Croatian foreign policy?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45733	Thank you. Mr. Minister Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45734	I thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Well, I have seen this statement from a respected Serbian counterpart, and I must admit that I was very surprised by such assessments of the lack of strategy and abandonment of relations with some important countries such as the United States, China, Russia, India. On the contrary, relations with the United States are better than ever before. This can confirm a recent visit to the United States at the 12th month when I had the opportunity to speak to the secretary of state. I don't have to talk about it, so just let Mr. Serb read what Secretary of State Clinton said and it'll be clear. As for the relationship with Russia, here's what day the Prime Minister will be visiting Russia. The President of the Republic was there recently. There are very intense talks on energy co-operation, on cooperation in the economy, and I think that these relations are also in the upstream line and more dynamic and more content than ever before. As for China, China's president visited Croatia last year. Croatia was one of the few countries in Europe that he visited with a delegation that was numbered in several hundred people. There were about 200 businessmen there. And I will be here very soon at the beginning of next month also on a return visit to China. There are priorities in foreign policy. This is in this case the entry into the European Union. Until recently, it was a NATO entry. That's the goal we've achieved. We will soon enter the European Union. A serious obstacle on the road was the blockade we had from Slovenia. Well, of course we've concentrated all our strengths to solve it, but we haven't ignored what's important. We have not ignored the region, very actively that we are present in all discussions held in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Recently there was a Turkish foreign minister along with a Bosnian-Herzegovina counterpart. In just a month, Turkey's foreign minister has been in Zagreb twice. Not to say so when it comes to other countries. Israel, there was a minister here, we're going to return visit very soon. This year's first visit was to Switzerland, therefore not to a country that is a member of the European Union. Also visited President Mesic recently, Oman. I was also in Oman, Qatar and Emiri where I took 15 Croatian businessmen with me. A delegation of Croatian businessmen will come to Israel with me. So diplomacy is doing everything it can to improve economic relations with all important countries, not just with members of the European Union and NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45735	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45736	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your exhaustive response. As we know ourselves, and you said it again, we are one of the great foreign-political successes and victory that we have just achieved by entering NATO, and here we are at the door of the European Union and these are really our priorities. But it is clear that maintaining an external-political dialogue with countries in the region and also in all those fields and countries that are subject to our interest is something that this ministry today and tomorrow will make great efforts. I thank you for that, and I want every happiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45737	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45738	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected members of the government. I refer my question to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Darko Milinovic. Dear Vice President, even though she's been really hard for the past year, we're aware of the major changes in health care. There is no doubt that the changes in health care have made a serious step towards the patient and put it at the heart of attention. Some examples. Note, repetitive prescriptions have been introduced so that chronic patients do not have to go to a doctor’s office just because of prescription. Internal instructions allowed specialists in hospitals to instruct patients to further search in their institution and the patient did not have to return to his chosen doctor just to get the instruction. The abolition of medical committees and the introduction of authorised doctors allowed patients to arrive in the office of their elected doctor to exercise the right to extend their stay. It is doubtless that the waiting list has also contributed to a major shift. Dear Minister, please inform us if you already have information on the current state of the health system regarding waiting and debt lists in the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45739	Thank you. Vice-President and Minister Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45740	Thank you, Mr. President. I see you're well aware of during the health system reform. And on this occasion, I would like to thank all the coalition partners, the president of the state, the unions, the economics for supporting the reform of the health system. Well, we've often been called from left to severe reforms, then when we go into reform, then we see what disinformation we are and when we've passed these reform laws, the baratalo from this left parliament, in terms of the hack... I'll remind you, when we started reforming the hospital system's debt system was 2 billion and 300 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, behind us is the year of recession, a difficult year, today the debt in the hospital system is billions and 500 million kunas, therefore reduced by 800 million kuna. HZZO's debt was 2 billion and 100 million kuna, today it's equal to 10 years ago, 870 million kuna. These are preliminary results and these days we'll get final results. I note that this all happened in the crisis recession in 2009 with an additional rebalancing of the state budget, i.e. budget in the Ministry of Health and Social Care of billions and 121 million kuna. We continue with the information. There were many calls about primary health care that nurses and doctors would be burdened with administration. We are completing the primary health care information project, and if God gives us a paper-free office somewhere at 6 months, we will have a smart card and through it we will exercise all our health care rights. You mentioned something that we've done over the past year, from saving from a reduction in the rate of sickness, from 400 million kuna, repeated recipes, a request for expensive medicines that we've been dealing with for 3 to 6 months today, the way the DTS hospital payments have led to an additional 450 million kuna debt reduction. We are completing information and social care during this year, which is very important. Savings on medicines, public tenders of an additional 400 million kuna and what is important, we put 20 new drugs on the list A, or on that list that does not require additional participations. So we continue with the extensive, deep reform of the health system. And once again, I want to thank all those who, of course, except for the SDP, who supported the reform of the health system, the difficult reform of the health system, but with this difficult reform, we also got that waiting lists have been reduced, that I do not forget, for the CT, for the ultrasound of the heart, for the ultrasound of the breast, for the endoprothesis of the hip. For the endoprothesis of the knee was a waiting list of 500 days, today it is 191 days. But in order not to be all that good, we also have an increase in the waiting list for the magnetic resonance, and these days we're in the process of finding a way to reduce the increased list for the magnetic resonance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45741	Thank you. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45742	I thank you, Mr. Vice President and Minister, for your comprehensive response. I thank you personally on behalf of all patients for everything you do to improve the health standards of all patients, and also for everything you do to improve liquidity in the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45743	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45744	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. The economic crisis has been going on for more than a year and a half in Croatia, while denial has continued from both the government and the parliamentary majority that it is not the main cause of the domestic economic structure, but in the global economic crisis has resulted in the absence of any elaborate economic policy. The result is almost a collapse in the economy, 291 thousand unemployed with the trend of growth, a low standard of citizens whose purchasing power is only 40% of the average purchasing power of citizens in the European Union, and new higher energy prices will only generate new costs for both the economy and citizens. The government's measures so far have not been aimed at helping neither the economy nor the citizens, but at increasing budget revenues exclusively. New imposes, therefore, and new taxes, have actually directly affected the decline of purchasing power and, indirectly, the growth of the economy. So I ask you why, with the measures currently announced, financial support measures for the economy that are well, although they are late, it is good that they come, you do not suggest reducing inappropriately high public spending, or why you are not already working on the budget rebalance proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45745	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45746	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs. Well, first of all, I would disagree with your finding to witness the general collapse of the economy. That's just not true. There are great difficulties, there are big problems, and in this government no one has ever denied, no one has ever disputed, but we are talking about problems very openly, we are trying to find solutions and in this, that is, in solving absolutely everyone who has anything to say, everyone who can help, everyone who has what constructive to suggest and you know that we have invited professional people, economists from the SDP if they can, if they want. I suggested very concretely, since I appointed three of my personal advisors to have the SDP president propose three, four people, for example. from the SDP, economic experts who will consult with these advisors my independent so let's see if I can make a constructive, well-proposed suggestion. I'll take it, Madam Representative, absolutely immediately, at the same time. We have announced and announced and I, I have spoken many times today, I will say again, so on the basis of all the measures we have taken and on the basis of one good atmosphere in terms of the finances that we have created together and with the Croatian National Bank, tomorrow we are going with concrete measures. I ask you that if you want to talk about it right now, when you see both the criteria and the way these loans are granted. So, in mid-February, the end of February we expect the first results. I believe that, however, many will be extremely helpful. We've also brought some special measures and now we're at the very end, for all those who have particular difficulties, here I point out the textile industry. So I believe that we will soon complete a programme that will go towards them and, as I have announced, as we have announced and supported, that is, programs for those companies that are on extremely difficult occasions, so literally on the verge of collapse. So we're trying to find models for them, too. As for your request and questions to me when we're going to reduce public spending, I beg you Madam MPs tell you now, here's a chance you have one more time to speak to me, I no longer have it, which is why you're proposing so we'll consider it in the government. Are you suggesting we cut pensions for the pensioners? Perhaps those up to 3,000 kn freed, and 900,000, freed this special tax, or you suggest we cut additional salaries to public, public or public officials. For example, teachers, teachers, or you might suggest to doctors or sisters. Say it. So say there are so many and so many. They need to cut their salary by half or I don't know how much. From your ranks came proposals to fire 70, 20,000, 30. There were different numbers. People who were employed in the state and public administration, but there were no suggestions on how to take care of them. So, of course, we would generate a new unemployment because the new 50, 60, 70,000 people without a job, on the road, of course, means a huge problem that I don't know how to solve. Or perhaps you're suggesting that we follow the government's lead when you're participating governments, so the government from 2000 to the end of 2003, which reduced birth benefits. Maybe that's the suggestion. But please tell me, specifically, we're asking that the birth benefits and the entire population policy project are reduced by so much and so much. This year it's more than 4 billion kuna. Tell me if we need to cut it in half, take 2 billion kuna. The government will consider this proposal of yours or suggest that we continue to reduce compensation for unemployed or social rights. For example, since we increased the fee from 400 to 500 kuna. Are you suggesting we reduce it to 100 kuna? So, Madam MPs, say specifically, in what way and how much. I'm looking for numbers now to reduce each category of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45747	Thank you. Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45748	Six months in this system is done by the government. The consultation, calls for talks and arrangements have not received any results. We still have a day now almost as 518 people are out of work. The budget isn't just pay and social benefits, there's a lot in the budget. The government would be responsible or is responsible for the government when it has a decline in social gross product by 6% reduces the budget, does not increase it by 7% as we did in Croatia. The first rule you learn in the tax economy is if there are higher taxes, then there are higher evasions, and low tax rates and greater coverage brings higher revenues to the budget. Therefore, if we do not have economic growth, if the salaries in the real sector are to fall, Madam President, you will not be able to maintain either the amount of wages or pensions or other expenditure in the state budget. So now it's time for you, with these measures that you're proposing in the economy, to do it again to comb the budget and see what can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45749	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45750	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor is asking you a question. It has been not 100 days since you first measured the success of a government but 200 days since the start of your term. My question is very simple. Do you consider yourself a successful prime minister when you know that last year in Croatia 73,000 people have lost their jobs and 73,000 families have lost their sources of income for their lives. That we have experienced a record GDP decline since the war in Croatia that will be over 6.2%, that every day the new 300 people are out of work, that in one year the entire industrial branches have disappeared, and the production has dropped by 9.5%, that our fellow citizens and fellow citizens have no means of living, do not have enough funds or for the basic living needs of which the 15% drop speaks. People don't have money. That indifference in Croatia, the internal indifference of the 26 billion kuna, of which the state is participating almost 50%. After all this information, Mrs. Kosor, my question is very simple, do you consider yourself a successful prime minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45751	Thank you. Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45752	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. So since you're looking for a decoded answer to my question, if I were to look at the latest research that shows that the government has the greatest support since the 2007 elections and that this government at the head of me is getting the best grades and research. So now you're telling me that I have to say it, and I hate to say it because you're asking me so I have to answer it. So, research here's the last one that showed on the list of popular politicians that I'm in first place. So, if you focus on just that, then I could answer yes, but I won't. Because my goal isn't even to me on a daily basis to think about whether I'm the most popular, whether I'm the best, whether I'm the best, whether I'm the successful prime minister, but I want the citizens to think about it. And the only thing I'm interested in is achieving three goals this year. The first, of course, is to get out of the economic crisis, to realize all the measures to stop this drop in employment that is extremely worrying me. The second goal is to conclude negotiations for entry into the European Union, to sit where we belong at the table of European countries and peoples and, of course, to strengthen the Croatian economy in this context. Because as you know, we've received an announcement of 3 and a half billion euros if we know how to use it wisely in the first two years of office. And the third goal is to re-enhancing the economy and finalise the negotiations. All this is related to each other's ruthless fight against corruption. So that's my government and mine, but my three main goals and that's all I'm thinking about. Being Prime Minister, being the head of the government, then being the woman at the head of the government, I never thought of it as the most popular, the best, the most beautiful. I said at the beginning of the term, it's not a choice for Miss, it's a hard and bloody job. And I didn't ask of you, nor of anyone for a hundred days, not for one day, not for one second, not for one minute. So, I felt that in difficult times when I came to the head of the government I had to work literally 24 hours, do everything I know, everything I can to get the country out of the crisis. The calls for co-operation and the SDP were not felt. I call you again, turn on, come on, talk, suggest. Here's a lead and just before Mrs. Zgrebec's proposal, cut the budget. Say what and where? We cut as you know last year for 7 billion kuna, we stopped employment, we took cars, no car shopping, no credit cards, nothing. I'm looking for a rational business in public enterprises, and we're going absolutely there. Therefore, with all this to be noted, all these measures you've listed, claiming that I'm not actually a good Prime Minister, you have the right to do so, and I respect that. I must point out that at no time have there been any late retirement payments in Croatia for the six months that you mention that mine, not for one second, nor payment of other rights, nor maternity benefits, nor child benefits, nor benefits for the unemployed, nor social threats, as you know, but they have not been late for more than 200 thousand, 250 public service employees. So if I could think about some good things, then I could think about it in that context. But our work isn't finished, of course. By the end of the term, there's plenty more. And good or bad, success or failure of the government that I run, and then you'll be able to judge me as prime minister then, but I respect you and now you're entitled as a representative of the SDP to say that all of this is nothing. I don't agree with that, of course, but it's your opinion and your attempt.../The speaker understands./... won't stop me from working on all these three plans, on all these three pillars of my government, with all my heart, with all my strength, with no rest, until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45753	Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45754	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kosor. At the beginning of my answer, I will mention one poll, and you often say from HDZ that the only relevant poll is the election. Your policy won 12% of Mrs. Kosor in the presidential election. Yeah, yeah. Since the start of a crisis that lasts for a year and a half, you've made no concrete measure to protect citizens and the economy. You didn't protect these 73,000 families, you decided to protect public spending and budget. You took every family on average 5 thousand kuna, almost one monthly basket, through new taxes and charges. You told them for a month, and that money will be spent by us from the government. Prime Minister Kosor, Croatian citizens have nothing... And your determination to replace Sanader's men in HDZ. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] It doesn't make you live. There should be determination, Mrs. Kosor, according to measures in the economy, and these measures have been gone for a year and a half. And that's why, in the end, I'm going to make your point. I will say that it is not, that early elections are now the only solution to what six months in your opinion waiting will be less than two years of waiting until the end of your term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45755	It is up to Mr. Agent Ivan Skaricic to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45756	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government. My question goes to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Darka Milinovic. Mr. Minister, it is known that Croatia is a country that has very well solved the health insurance of all its citizens. And at this time of year, contracts are made for supplementary health insurance. I'd be interested in what's the update on supplemental health insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45757	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45758	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know at the beginning of the health system reform, there were about 500 thousand people in the supplemental insurance policy, i.e. they had a supplementary insurance policy a year after we started reforming the health system, there are about 2 and a half million people in supplementary insurance. Every year, around the new year, there are crowds in the Croatian Health Insurance Office's regional offices. I hope, or I am convinced that this is the last year when there are such crowds, because we have introduced renewable insurance, which means that it will not have to be renewed every year, but it is permanent. You will only have to come to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute's field office, in the situation where you want to interrupt your health insurance or additional health insurance. The Croatian Institute of Health Insurance also concluded a contract with the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in a way that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office will directly pay the policy so that pensioners do not have to come to mail, to banks and do not have to be traumatised further, and for them the service is free of charge. This way, with these relations, with this update in supplementary health insurance we saved about 20 million kuna over the last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45759	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Skaricic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45760	Well, it's obvious that it's important and big and good news. And I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45761	Thank you. It is Mr Dragan Vukic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45762	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Ministers. I refer my question to the Minister of Administration, Mr Davorin Mlakar. Mr. Minister, there is another election behind us, this time for the President of the Republic of Croatia. Every time in election time, the usual topics are the electoral lists. Very often, it is malicious to talk about a double vote, which cannot possibly be because a Croatian citizen can be enrolled once in the voter's list. For the sake of the Croatian public, please comment. And my question concerns an out-of-place vote. After the first round of presidential elections, NGOs asked the Ministry of Administration to allow subsequent voters to register for a vote outside their place of residence in the second round of elections. Why didn't the Ministry do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45763	Thank you. Mr Davorin Mlakar, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45764	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor. Here's the first time we've had a chance to comment on what you said. Allow me to say that there were no associations in the crowd objecting to the work of the Ministry of Administration, the objection was always applied from only one address, it was an association that otherwise observes the electoral procedure, it's called GONG. It is important to note that this same association that requested in this case, I will try technical details to ignore the implementation of the election, that the Ministry of Administration issue voting certificates only for the second round election in case of repetition, after those 14 days, it was the request of the GONG association. Unfortunately, in 2007, unfortunately for this request, the GONG Association participated in the drafting of the Law on Lists of Voters, which was adopted in 2007. The Law said that a confirmed list of voters that must be completed before the elections start, so after confirmation from the competent election committees, it is considered as a certified list of voters for both the first round of elections and the repeat of the elections. We respected this legal provision, we did not want to violate it either at the demands of some, and especially of this association that requested that between the first and the second rounds we re-issue confirmations to voters so that they could choose, it is only those who would choose outside of their place of residence where their polling stations were determined. I think it's important to note that you understand what number of people it is. YES in our list of voters certified and confirmed for the presidential elections there were those voters who had their residence in the Republic of Croatia 4 million 88 thousand 798 that those voters who had no residence in the Republic of Croatia in these same elections were 406 thousand 208, so that was the total number of voters who could vote in these presidential elections. Out of that number of confirmations that they would vote outside their place of residence, a total of 3 thousand and 2 certificates were issued within the legal deadline that ended on December 12th, of which only 43 for the second round. I think that says enough at all about the amount of voters who have used such certificates or should. Here I am free to say here regardless of the grades of GONG we had a limited mission of the OSCE to observe the elections that gave high marks and to the State Election Commission for their work done in the elections, and also to the Ministry of Administration and its services that these elections had to prepare. I would conclude, with the answer to the beginning of your question, whether there was a possibility of a double vote. Let me put it this way, by constantly cleaning the voters' list, and by constantly checking the voters' lists, that's impossible this year. We had no objection that the same person could be found on two lists of voters for the safety of this claim is only an argument more and what we did with these certificates that can be issued by a certain deadline, shortlists of voters are concluded 14 days before holding the first election round, 7 days to 8 days before the elections, and our services can still check all lists and possible errors, and afterwards these certified lists serve as extracts of voters who serve election committees at polling stations to determine exactly the number and persons who have the right to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45765	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45766	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45767	It's Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45768	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm asking my question to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Poppie. Last year, however, the ministry called and shared support for the wood, textile, leather industry, but ultimately, the support was divided under rather unfavourable conditions, I would say, given the recession, given the decline in demand in foreign markets, given the decline in exports. About 620 million were asked to invest in the industry itself, while the state invested around 50 million. Therefore, the total support in relation to the total amount would be only 10%. I would advocate that, in line with the government's action and work programme, a coalition agreement for this year, we find ways to really help these support to the textile, leather and wood industry, and not to give them additional... business, especially given the crisis, foreign markets, is the drop in demand, our exporters. So I'm asking you when the Ministry is going to call and under what conditions the grant tender, especially given the fact that we see that this intervention fund for aid to the economy still doesn't work, is still operational from it nothing. I'm afraid without that help, the wooden, leather and textile industries won't be able to survive until summer this year, you know that only last year about 18,000 people are out of work in these industrial branches. So, I don't think we have time, that our time is an angry enemy, and that we have to go as soon as possible under more favourable conditions to meet that industry and call the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45769	Thank you. Mr. Djuro Poppie Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45770	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. First, the support was very favourable, because the character of these support was that they were irreversible. So, 2008. In 2009, in line with the support strategy of the textile and leather industry, more than 220 million kuna were divided, which is why you will agree to very serious money. However, in this strategy other than the defined grants that should have been and which are largely shared. Some other activities were envisaged that companies themselves had to do, and they were mainly supported by development projects. Because support for firms in difficulty is a completely different character and they are defined by a special law. Therefore, support for firms in difficulty can only be one-off and in line with European Union directives. What must be done or what we do in this year, therefore, together with the social partners, therefore, both with the unions and with the representatives of these sectors, primarily in our Ministry of Textile Industry, we do an operational programme that must be adapted to these very new conditions. So, the support you're talking about cannot go for firms in difficulty, these are the support provided for development projects. However, other mechanisms must be and will be designed together with the Ministry of Finance and in the context of both these packages and this package of new financial instruments to assist and support firms in difficulty. So, all those who, for all sorts of reasons, are having a hard time dealing with this economic situation, I have to admit and I have to say here that there are a number of successful companies in this sector as well. Therefore, both in the wood and textile sectors which have made good use of these supports, which have restructured their businesses and which are successfully operating in such difficult conditions. However, we are aware that there are also a number of companies and in difficulty and for which these programmes of new financial instruments, as well as the additional ones that will be produced by the Ministry of Finance in the coming days or weeks, will probably be directed to that category of our economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45771	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Chehok, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45772	Mr. Minister, that's exactly what I wanted to point to. It was about support for new technologies, but if you don't use those support, then you can't even get those other support that wasn't related to that purpose. So it's illogical. I'm asking you to look at this, it wasn't in the contest, but in the end, the contracts agreed to avoid such an unfavourable provision for them this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45773	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45774	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister. I will ask my question to Mr. Secretary and Assistant Prime Minister Mr. Shucker. Here, Mr. Chehok has already mentioned aid tenders in the textile and leather industry and under these conditions, meaning last year when the tender was opened, under these conditions the aid could be used primarily for the development and expansion of production. One of the basic conditions of competition for craftsmen, i.e. small, medium and large entrepreneurs, was that all financial commitments were met to the State. However, some taxes were paid, mostly small craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, and the other part managed to settle, so they were excluded from the competition, and the third ones brought a confirmation, i.e. a solution to the reprogramme, i.e. a flat-rate payment of the tax debt, and therefore applied for the tender and unfortunately received the same money. So now, I guess some additional certificates have been brought in that weren't in the terms of the competition, but my question is. Why do you, just the Ministry of Finance, put tax evasion in a more favourable position than those who regularly pay their dues or have only minimal debts, and is that, in your opinion, a form of political corruption in public tenders?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45775	Thank you. Vice President Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, it's not good to say what you said in your last sentence. There's nothing to justify accusing you of anything. You should have read the General Tax Law before asking this question, perhaps it would have been far better and better if you had read the General Tax Law and seen who and under what conditions could receive a meal payment. The second thing, the payment is the administrative document, it has its own solution, it has its own watch. Number. Anyone can read it, anyone can check it out. So the Ministry of Finance doesn't encourage tax evasion. Therefore, the payouts can be paid exclusively by those who have found themselves for various reasons in difficulty, so they could not measure their tax obligations and other things no one can get a respite payment unless it gives some kind of guarantee, whether it's a stock on real estate or some kind of bank guarantee. So, in a certain way to the state, he secured state claims. And if you knew of any case that someone had received a payment, and if it hadn't been in accordance with these rules, I'd ask you to give it to me and make sure that one who issued such a payment will be sanctioned. Rest assured, here's what I'm saying publicly. So, you said many unfortunately for various reasons cannot settle their obligations to the state, according to suppliers, and therefore this programme and what the Prime Minister has said today will be adopted tomorrow, and the guarantee fund law will be passed, so the plan "A" to say where the HBOR will participate with 30% in the lending of individual projects, it has been agreed with business banks that somewhere 20% of the total credit can be used in part for the settlement of tax liabilities, one part for the re-programmed loans that have come from the previous period for the simple reason that all of our experiences, the experience that the Croatian Bank has for renovation and development, at this point, is the greatest thirst, so to say, according to crafts and that at this point, the Croatian entrepreneurs are the most lacking in crafts. And that's why this program is going in this direction right now, but I'm telling you, no one, after all, has been passed the General Tax Law in this House, and also every year when the state budget is adopted, the law on the implementation of the state budget is adopted where it is spoken of. So be assured that no one in such a way encourages any, I will not say corruption, but something that may not be in accordance with the law, but I say it is not convenient when you say it, and at the same time these laws were passed by this House, but I repeat if you have any knowledge I ask you nicely to give it to me and make sure that those who gave any such document will be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45777	Thank you. Mr. Vlatko Podnar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45778	Thank you very much. I'm not talking about tax debt not being reprogrammed. I'm saying that whoever's in charge of this debt reprogramme appears in a grant tender in this country. That's what I'm talking about. I didn't say he couldn't. I didn't say he couldn't. That's not what I was talking about, Mr. Vice President. I hope, therefore, that what the Prime Minister is, and you're saying now that it won't be one of the criteria for reprogramming and taxing, means based on the tax debt reprogramme that it can participate now in this economy fund. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45779	Thank you. It's Mrs. solar headwoman's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45780	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I will refer my question to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Shimonovic. Now, during the current morning, another good news has arrived from Brussels, which is that the Committee on Foreign Policy of the European Parliament has adopted a motion for a resolution on Croatia's progress, which suggests that some chapters could be unblocked soon, so I'm going to ask you what's going on with Chapter 23, or are we ready if, and everything indicates that this chapter is about to open, so Mr. Minister, at what stage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45781	Thank you. Minister Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45782	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam representative, we're not just ready, we're at a low start, we're waiting for a shot and we expect that shot to arrive soon. Why are we ready? Because already a year ago, the European Commission has assessed that Croatia has met the preconditions for the opening of Chapter 23. - Justice and human rights for well-known reasons. However, one smaller group of members of the European Union blocked the opening of this chapter. However, we did not give in that year and waste time, but worked not only on judicial reform but also carefully on the report of the European Commission and on the expected guidelines for closing the chapter. Although we still don't have directions. We're already working on meeting the closing guidelines. And we're at a low start because yesterday and formally there's only one country left that hasn't taken off the blockade. We are expected to be soon invited to submit our negotiating position. As soon as we're invited, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45783	Thank you. Mrs. Sunny Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45784	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. So I think that in this direction, all the government's efforts were at the head of the government with the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, and I believe soon, that this shot will finally fire, so someone will take that gun and we'll go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45785	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Josip Salapic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45786	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I refer my question to the Minister of Defence, Family and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr Tomislav Ivic. Mr. Minister, given the moment of economic situation and worrying about the increase of the unemployed Croatian defenders, is there any incentive in the Ministry of Defence when it comes to the case that the Croatian defender wants to hire himself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45787	Mr Tomislav Ivić Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45788	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has successfully implemented the government's programme of professional training and employment of unemployed Croatian defenders and children of the dead Croatian defenders for several years. And I can say that through this programme that includes 6 different measures from professional training, first call acquisition, requalification, qualifications or measures aimed at encouraging employment, the job has found over 12 thousand Croatian defenders. In particular, I would like to stress the successful implementation of the measures to encourage the establishment of defence cooperatives, which have actually been implemented successfully over the past few years. In 2004, there were only two cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia, and now there are over 350 of which 271 were directly encouraged by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Nearly 200 million kunas have been spent in this employment programme over the past six years. The funds have been provided for the implementation of this government programme and in 2010 I am sure that this year the defenders will be able to find a job through the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45789	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45790	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Just like you, I call on the defenders to use your ministry's incentives. I commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45791	Thank you. And the last one to ask is representative Mr. Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45792	Dear Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Ministers, Honored fellow MPs and MPs. I think we can all agree that the food industry should be one of the strategic branches of the Croatian economy. I also believe that you will agree with me that such an industry should logically be the most developed within the state right in Slavonia and Baranja. Because Slavonia and Baranja is the source of most of the raw materials provided by this country, which is needed for the work of the food industry. Unfortunately, over all these years, we can make sure that's not the case. The food industry in Slavonia and Baranja is either at a very low level or not at all, and this little one has in very large financial problems. Here's the latest case I'm going to look back on here today. It's a recently declared bankruptcy of Djakovština. It's the biggest company in ugly Đakova. They hired 537 people until the other day. This means that several thousand people live directly in the city of Djakovo, which is certainly a large number, because the city of Djakovo is a city of some 30 thousand inhabitants. Also with this company are a number of family farms from both Djakova and Djakov cities and a kind of their existence were tied to this company. I'm interested in what government representatives who have been on the control boards of the company have done in the last year to make a move. Because this situation that led to bankruptcy isn't since yesterday. The company's giro account has been blocked for over a year. And the fact is that the state owned the company was 32%, so it had the right and obligation to look into the business of this company in time to alarm state institutions to prevent such a course of events in time. I'm asking another question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45793	He can't. He can't. He can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45794	What has the government done to help 537 workers who have not received all the salaries in the past period who have not received their severances? And I ask the question, why is it that in time not licensed silos of Đakovština, because we all remember that a few months ago, Minister Cobankovic urged peasants not to sell their wheat at low prices, but to store it on silos, to accept warehouses and that the state guarantees their goods... /The speaker excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45795	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45796	Here I go. Today, these silos are empty and wheat, corn and sunflower and all the other products that the peasants stored in these silos simply disappeared and are nowhere else. And the peasants aren't compensated for that part. I wonder what the government is planning to do on these issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45797	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45798	Thank you very much. Mr. President. I would pray, it now refers not only to representative Drmic but also to representatives who ask. It's hard to remember when ladies and gentlemen MPs ask a few questions in the form of one. And then here we are really trying to answer, but we'd have to concentrate on one question. Then I'll try as hard as I can and as hard as I can to answer everything you've talked about. But here, I'd like to ask nicely for it to be a practice in the future. We find it difficult to concentrate on anything a representative or representative asks in a matter. So it's about Djakovština itself. Of course, the government is well aware of the big problems, and in some ways I can say that we are experiencing the fate of all people who depend on Đakovština and who are bound and who are now not hard to live but are really on the edge of existence, people who have not been paid hard to say that they live normally, can't pay direction, etc. The problem is getting bigger. The fact is that at some point, the government can't be said exactly right now, and I don't know what people you mean when you talk about the board of directors, I'd have to check it out, get involved and try to help. The fact is Đakovština owes the Ministry of Finance or the state budget. And now you see how we are sometimes truly insecure. So, on the one hand, you all expect, in particular, MPs, that by taking care of the budget, of course, we don't forgive anyone that everyone has to fulfill their part of the obligation, pay what they have to pay, no forgiveness, no compromise on anyone. On the other hand, we are often asked to write something down, to forgive something, etc., and to finance something. Very clearly, we also can't do it in this case any more than you know that they've been robbed, stolen state stock reserves, so they've been taken away, carried away, thousands of tons of grain. And what we're looking for, of course, is criminal responsibility. All those involved must respond as soon as possible. We're looking for an emergency investigation and, of course, as soon as possible. The government will, of course, continue to engage through its resolution ministries. Today I hear some better news, therefore, about Đakovština. Anything we can do under the law, all the laws and on the state budget and on the implementation of the state budget we will absolutely try to help it I assure you, but in this case because it was, you did not ask that but there were these days questions whether the government could pay the salaries to the workers. Unfortunately, I have to answer that he can't or can't finance it, he can't. He can't because we would open Pandora's box and we couldn't really stop everything that came out of it. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. However, I recall that I also believe that some solutions will be found regarding both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy in the framework of expert assistance and the finding of possible outcomes will certainly help. But I remind you of some better times, let's say here's a success, I believe absolutely successful privatisation of Vupika when you talk about the wider area of Slavonia or Baranja. Also these great efforts around Valpostina, etc. So we're trying to help. However, the fact is that we are also looking for the absolute and complete responsibility of all those people who are responsible for the management of these systems, especially when something like the state supply robbery happens, and in that sense we have sought, of course, the model of how we will make up for these supplies. But I repeat once again, that's what's important to the state and I believe in everything. We now have to make up for it, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone with a lot of understanding and difficulties facing the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45799	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45800	I would not agree with you to open Pandora's box. Pandora's box has been open long ago. We are patient and today we are returning 8 billion kuna credits for Croatian shipyards, patiently paying twice for the rehabilitation of the Rijeka Bank, patiently on several occasions the hotel and tourist companies in Dalmatia were rehabilitated. That's all we Slavons paid for. But when it's our turn to help us a little, that opens Pandora's box. I would also appeal to the government once again, she as the owner of 32% of the bankruptcy stake in Djakovština has the right to oversee the work of the bankruptcy manager. I'd ask you not to let the basic funds that have been refurbished there, the modern partial sell-off, and to spread it all over the place without people staying on the street. I would ask you that already on several occasions in Slavonia was the case, and this man who in several companies was a bankruptcy manager did the same thing. So, all the basic assets disappear and people stay on the street. That this company is already if it has to go that way to sell to a quality strategic partner that people continue to gain their existence in the company. Here, that's all I'd ask you to do is control that bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45801	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank all the MPs, the government for the persistent actually sitting here and answering questions because this all went on for almost a little bit less than four hours. So, the current morning is over. The remainder of the session is at 15.30 p.m. with agenda item Final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes. Thank you. Good afternoon again. Madam MPs and MPs, we proceed with the session and we move on to the agenda. 1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 491 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by MP Emil Tomljanovic. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45803	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 82nd session held on 8 December 2009, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes, with the final proposal for a law. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. In the debate on the text of the final proposal, it is pointed out that the provisions of this law have been indistinguishable because of 17 of its amendments so far, with the proposal to adopt a whole new Law on Administrative Taxes. At the same time, there was also an objection to non-compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act because the issue of payment of administrative fees was not resolved when administrative submissions were submitted to the competent authority by e-mail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45804	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45805	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community accepts the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes. This proposal amends a total of five articles of the existing Law on administrative fees relating to the following. First of all, to the calculation of consular fees and to the introduction of new administrative fees, some of which are closely linked to the adoption and harmonisation and the entry into force of certain laws. The existing Law on Administrative Taxes provides that they are to be calculated according to the average exchange rate of the CNB on 1 January of the financial year, which does not demonstrate the real state of the relationship between the exchange rate and the currency in which the amounts of consular fees are recalculated in certain consular offices. That is why it is proposed to amend the account of consular competent authorities according to the average average average exchange rate for the previous year established by the Croatian National Bank. For example, binding the course to one day only when calculating the level of consular fees can be unrealistic, it can be risky precisely because of the events, any events on the world stock exchanges and, in this sense, the proposed change will ensure a more realistic calculation of the level of consular fees. New administrative fees shall also be introduced for the authorisation of the use of transferable tiles of 300 kuna. Portable tiles are a new category for vehicle markings according to the Road Safety Act, and are used for vehicles carrying out a test drive for vehicles moving to the place of customs, service, sales and exhibition site, etc. Since their release by police administrations entails a certain cost, the need to prescribe this fee has arisen. Since it has also entered into force the Regulation on the conditions and manner of implementation of the security measures in the storage of explosive substances, heading 16 of the new administrative fees for the authorisation of the place of production and use of explosive substances of 2 and a half thousand kuna, shall be supplemented, further to the professional training of persons for the handling of explosive substances of 2 and a half thousand kuna and to the research of new types of explosive substances of 500 kuna. Furthermore, heading 18 is also added to the new administrative fee for granting consent to the judgment of the 500 kuna threat. In this regard, the conduct of inspection controls of the Security and Detective Affairs Inspectorate is linked to the costs of the inspector's transport to the place of inspection, since the offices in which the supervision is carried out are very often not located in the police administration's headquarters and in this regard the need to introduce this fee. Finally, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens created the basis for issuing a biometric passport. That law amends the prescribed period of validity of the passport itself. According to the previous law, the passport was prescribed to be issued to persons over 27 years of age with a period of validity of 10 years and to persons under 27 years of age was issued a passport with a period of 5 years. The new law changes that, so the age limit from which passports are issued for 10 years is lowered from 27 to 21 years. It is therefore necessary to amend the provisions of the Law on administrative fees relating to the years of life of persons subject to the passport. For the issuing of passports to persons older than 21 years, an administrative fee of 800 kuna is prescribed, and for persons under 21 years of age, this fee is 600 kuna. Finally, on the basis of all this, I would like to stress once again that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45806	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45807	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As a consequence, the Road Safety Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, entered into force. It then entered into force the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and value, as well as the Regulation on the conditions and arrangements for the implementation of security measures in the case of storage and explosives. Therefore, conditions have been created for the introduction of new administrative fees from the work of the Ministry of the Interior. For the implementation of certain provisions of those acts, no administrative fees have been imposed so far, and these proposals are therefore proposed. The previous colleague listed very precisely what fees we are introducing, so I'm going to skip them. I will underline only the following that this bill changes the current account of consular fees in such a way as to determine the account of consular fees according to the average average exchange rate of the kuna for the previous year established by the CNB. Finally, the Law on Administrative Taxes has so far experienced a number of amendments and additions 17 times, so as to question the visibility of the provisions of this law, the HNS Club proposes and supports the request of the Legislative Committee to adopt a whole new Law on Administrative Taxes. We also ask that the proposal for this law be brought into line with the General Administrative Procedure Act on payment of administrative fees in the case of administrative submissions to the competent authority by e-mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45808	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45809	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes, because there has indeed been a legal gap, there are no administrative fees for several specific things that have been provided for by certain laws. It is also quite acceptable for the account of consular fees to be carried out according to the average average average kuna rate for the previous year, not only for one day when calculating the level of consular fees. Because oscillations can be pretty big in those courses over the years. So, for the sake of one principle of righteousness, a fully well - arranged article is the first. However, Article 2 also tells us about something that should not be disturbed by the mind, regardless of what is said about such a bill, i.e. on administrative fees. Because these administrative fees are paid by citizens, paid by legal persons. Today we have heard the answers of the Prime Minister, but also of all the members of the government to this topic of improving the economic situation in the country, or at least the halting of this sink that threatens us. Namely, portable tiles as well as the applicant correctly notices under the Road Safety Act will mainly be used by vehicles moving to the place of customs, type-approval, service, sales and exhibition site, attestation sites, storage sites, storage sites, upgrades and those vehicles for the test drive. I think that this is just maybe this time and to show how ready it is for the government to make life easier, especially for those who are moving into a new job. So this one fee, which is determined by the existing tariff number only by other points for similar things, let's say for the test plate, seems to be the same thing as 300 kuna. But we also have to take care of the times we're in. I only note that by 2000, such levels were the levels of administrative fees and court fees that almost made life impossible for citizens. That there were citizens who didn't want to take their belongings or IDs because they couldn't pay the fee, that we weren't talking about how close the way was to people where on a simple private lawsuit that cost the attorney's fee 300 kn 1500 kn to the state. So in those times we had the courage in 2000, 2001 to reduce both administrative and court fees by 50%. Of course he paid the state budget. But we felt that it was more beneficial to reduce these fees in this way than to earn and fill in the budget. So it's obvious that when it's done, as soon as the subject goes by, the one who doesn't have an economical name, then that adjective, we forget about it at all. In the same way when it comes to the application of the rules on the conditions and manner of implementation of the security measures for the storage of explosive substances. And here the Proposer explains that he carries it with him and conducts the procedure itself. However, it is noted that the conduct of the procedure itself, as well as the conduct of administrative procedures financed from the budget, and that the parties are paying a fee on a particular action. So this isn't exactly true. As much as we can accept this provision in Article 4 because these are not frequent occurrences when consent is given to the judgment of the threat of 500 kn. This even since it is not so common and does not include a large number of addressees, i.e. Citizens can accept this amount of 500 kn. However, the argument that follows is totally unacceptable. In fact, I draw real attention to the reasoning and to this last item of the first page of the reasoning, because it speaks in essence of how far the government itself is not prepared for a serious reform of the administration. If he can say that this amount has to be because the inspectors are on the ground. So where, please, the inspectors should be squatting. That is why the situation is happening to us in many segments of labour legislation, to construction inspections, to work essentially in whoever they want, because it is obvious that the government also believes that inspectors should sit in their headquarters. It's simply an unacceptable explanation, where the government says it's far from the office and that sometimes rarely they have to go outside the police department inspectors, even to distant islands. Please, Mr. Secretary of State, I'm telling you this, but tell the Minister, so he and the entire government that the inspector's place isn't in any house, it's not in any office, it's in the field. Then justify the amount you gave them to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45810	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 491. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Emil Tomljanovic. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mr. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary. Amendment to Article 1 Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45812	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45813	It's becoming an integral part. There's another one. Hello! This first amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. The second amendment to Article 1 shall also be added to Article 1a. which reads.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45814	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45815	So this amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. Then thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal, the final draft of the law, was adopted with most votes 101 votes for, 2 abstentions, nothing against, together with the amendments adopted. We move to - - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 468 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda... propose that this legislative proposal be discussed in an emergency procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Ivica Buconjic, state secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45817	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Police Cooperation, with the final proposal for a law. I would say that this is not such an important law, but an important agreement that is confirmed by this law because this is one in a series of agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia with governments, i.e. the relevant institutions of other countries and which have so far proven themselves, means these agreements on police cooperation as an extremely effective weapon in the co-operation of the Ministry of Interior, specifically between the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the police of other countries in the fight against crime, as a rule against the most serious forms of crime. I will just remind you that currently the Republic of Croatia has signed 32 bilateral international contracts, of which 22 are in force. Since some have ceased to exist, certain changes have occurred within those countries that existed. It is also under way to negotiate an agreement with several European and non-European states. And I repeat again that these agreements on police cooperation have proved to be an extremely effective tool and I believe that, in the context of all these events, Serbia is our first neighbour, we are all witnessing as much as this agreement will be confirmed by this law that is yet to strengthen and improve the cooperation between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, which is also good at the moment and which has resulted in a series of joint workings that ultimately resulted in the disclosure of several organised groups, i.e. several perpetrators of very serious crimes, either in the Republic of Croatia, either in the Republic of Serbia or internationally. That is why I call for this law to be passed because it will confirm an agreement by which the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia will provide a very effective and powerful weapon in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, in a joint fight against the monsters of modern organised crime, and the most difficult form of criminal acts carried out in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45818	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45819	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. Here is the Croatian Democratic Community club to support the adoption of this Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police co-operation. In fact, modern trends in crime movement, and in particular its phenomenal forms, suggest the need to develop new methods of police combating all types of crime. In this context, special importance and importance are given methods of combating complex forms of crime, which certainly include organised crime and terrorism. What is their common feature is that, with the structure and organisation of these hierarchys of members of such criminal groups, they have an international character, and they involve criminal activities in the space of several different states, and often continents. I am convinced that without international police cooperation, a successful fight against organised crime and terrorism is unthinkable. How important international police cooperation is for Croatia shows a whole series of cases from the past that are the most recent in the January case of the murder of Ivo Pukanic and Nika Franjic. In memory, in the case of the murder of Ivo Pukanic and Nika Franjic, I'm sorry. Namely, as you all well know, the actors of this serious crime associated with the preparation and execution of the murder come from at least three countries in the region. To ensure that police from different countries can work well together as operational services, the basic prerequisite is that there is, above all, strong political support and afterwards, a legal framework for international police co-operation. In his first address to the Croatian Parliament, Interior Minister Mr Tomislav Karamarko cited the international police co-operation as one of the strategic goals, referring to strengthening existing forms and aspects of co-operation, primarily through strengthening bilateral cooperation with countries in the region, and then continuing continued continued and successful cooperation through international organisations. The Republic of Croatia is a party to 29 bilateral agreements on international police cooperation, 8 agreements at the level of the Ministry of Interior, and two multilateral agreements that allow police to exchange knowledge and experience, in taking over best practice and applying the latest achievements in the field of criminal technology and criminal tactics to combat all forms of crime. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the government of the Republic of Serbia on police co-operation signed by the two ministers on 25 May last year falls within the new modern generation of international contracts of that kind. The said Treaty allows the police to use a wide range of international police cooperation instruments, such as liaison officers, joint investigation teams, witness protection, joint contact services, information exchange, etc. in both Croatia and Serbia. It is precisely these cooperation instruments that are a prerequisite for the police to be effective in curbing crime that has an international dimension. Finally, when we talk about international police co-operation and we give our own judgment on how good it is or not, we must not only take into account the extent and the cooperation at the highest levels of management between ministers and police chiefs, because the quality and cooperation depends on cooperation at operational levels, measured at the speed of exchange of information, the quality of this information and the trust that exists between the two police organisations. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia fully provides for a legal framework for international police cooperation or the fight against all forms of crime, with an international dimension to be fully effective. Here, once again, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support that agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45820	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, Mr. Representative of Shime Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45821	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, right at the beginning of the day, to say that the SDP Club will support this law and we believe that it is an important law. Why? Well, for a simple reason, because maybe this law deals with issues and treats a problem that's what it's called, a typical one so that this type of law is signed with both Israel and Moldova or I don't know about any other country, not just Europe but the world, so from that point of view, maybe someone would say it's one in a series of such laws, it's the law that's often referred to in that political jargon as custom law. So when two senior political officials find themselves, if they have nothing to crown their meeting together, they sign a law like this. However, we in the SDP hold that this law is not and must not, at least it should not be that kind of law, why? For the simple reason that he refers to us next door. In his presentation, the State Secretary himself mentioned several occasions and the situation when police cooperation of a particular type and gave cooperation in some actions, however, in these areas, in this region, above all I think of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia so as not to go further, it is difficult to fight organised crime unless there is willingness for both sides to work together to solve these problems. So it opens up for me here, and I have to mention it, another question that is very important. Having other experiences and following the situation in the field of cooperation between Croatia and Serbia at some point, not only when it comes to police cooperation but also otherwise, I think that this cooperation, regardless of the quality of any law that is more technical or operational, determines actually general political opportunities. In this sense, when relations between Croatia and Serbia are tightened, when certain messages or misunderstandings come from high places, then this type of agreement and the law, so that operational one, let me call it co-operation at stake. So, I think it's very important that this type of agreement is implemented, and so I'd like to ask the secretary of state that some of the things that may seem unspeakable to us, or at least to the end, are not clear to us, for a number of reasons. The first reason is so in 2002, after many years of problems on the plan, we signed an agreement with the interior ministry then not yet Serbia, or Serbia and then Yugoslavia, so these were the first steps. Now I'm interested in why, we know that the political opportunities have changed entirely. Let's say, for example, that more and the European Union treats Serbia differently without saying what Croatia's position is compared to that of the time. I'm interested in why it took eight years for something a little less to go into a new qualitative leap. Now why am I pointing that out? Because we're afraid this law doesn't fall into that typical story that's just one in a series of appropriate laws. What seems very important to us, while at the same time in this Agreement is merely indicated and not brought to the end, it is a matter of prevention. We think that very well with the change of data tracking certain people and everything police work has given us to do on prevention we know exactly what this story looks like, in the biggest robberies or in the biggest crimes organised in Croatia or from Croatia come perpetrators from Serbia. And you have the opposite story, and in that context, we think that in the field of prevention that this should have been elaborated. Perhaps you should also see the fact that this type of law does not require additional resources. Well, that's what's making me sick. Typical laws usually or custom laws of the agreement do not require additional funds, but if I do not know, really think about investigators disguised and witness protection, that I do not go into detail now, I do not know only if some items of the Ministry of Interior do not have enough money to finance such activities, so we believe that at least some means should have been provided for. And now these questions I mentioned. In fact, the definition of requests and answers to a request. It's not clear to us when the application goes, when the application doesn't go. I don't know my deadlines aren't the same there, right? We know that in this situation we need a spot-on action, so right now. Now wait for a request to be sent, to answer that request in writing, or to send data until there is already a robbery or murder or worse. Perhaps a little clarification on that request and answer. And what are these situations when a request is needed even though something is said there, but you can't see it, but I think it's important to know. And now the question is, in my opinion, the question of witness protection is the same. So it is not clear to me how and how to implement protected witnesses in accordance with national legislation? Because that means that, say, a protected witness from Serbia who will find shelter in Croatia will be protected under Serbian laws or Croatian laws? And vice versa. Let's say there's another story about the money I mentioned. And something very important, too, and it might seem important to me. I have a feeling that this agreement does not show the different positions of Croatia and Serbia in a transparent manner compared to the European Union. Here, so it's a matter of state border surveillance. The situation of Schengen, does this mean that these situations that are prescribed by this law on cooperation on supervision of the borders of joint patrols, etc., whether they will refer to a longer period of time or will actually deepen the situation, I hope for a year when Croatia introduces Schengen at its borders. It's actually very important because we know that, let's say, some illegal roads don't lead from the west to the east but from the east to the west. Finally, an important explanation may also be needed. So, I think when it comes to personal data, even though it's always possible to abuse it, it's handled well. However, around classified data you can see there, among other things, that all classified data will be exchanged. So among other things, what is classified in Croatia is very secret, i.e. in Serbia as a state secret. In both Croatia and Serbia, this classification refers to national security. Now, I don't understand why this agreement will exchange or be able to exchange classified information that is relevant to national security. I think that, at least in my view, should have worked it out a little bit better, or at least clearer what the chances are, because you know, international agreements are international agreements. They give rise to certain obligations. Here, thank you very much. So once again I mention the SDP club supports and will accept this bill if the Secretary of State intends to address it, I would ask that these few clarifications give us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45822	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HSS Representatives, distinguished colleague Stanko Grčić. Here you go, fellow Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45823	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HSS Club supports the text in question of the draft laws and agreements because they are in line with the security policy developed under the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Interior, which supports the objectives of the Croatian foreign policy to achieve security cooperation and cooperation with neighbouring countries. The adoption of this law, i.e. by confirming this agreement, wants to clearly formulate the state's determination to improve the overall area of security from all threats to public security and public order, the prevention and prosecution of criminal offences to the control of the state border in the border area. The fact is that the activities of the police department have become an important factor in improving joint assistance among countries and that future competent institutions will more than this has been the case so far will significantly participate in the implementation of these tasks. All we can remember is the fact that crime has no limits and that criminals are often in front of the police in the establishment of interstate relations. We hope that this agreement creates conditions that there are no more security havens in the neighborhood for hardships, for serious criminals or vice versa. In this regard, we think that certain security issues with the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are better and are on a special increase. Following this, we hope that the adoption of this law will facilitate the work of our competent institutions with partners and neighbouring states of the signatories of the agreement, in particular in the fight against organised crime, the fight against economic and financial crime, the fight against terrorism, the fight against counterfeiting in the fight against the smuggling of cultural goods and stolen art as well as in the security of air and land traffic and in a number of other areas. This agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police cooperation establishes the subject of the necessary legal framework for the mutual cooperation of the two countries in the field of cooperation in the prevention of organised and serious crime and will therefore support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45824	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45825	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party, the Liberal Democrats, will support the ratification of this agreement. The agreement with the Republic of Serbia on the plan of police co-operation is an extremely important document. Not only because of the fact that cooperation so far was largely based on an old one such agreement that slowly expired the deadline, as well as the meaning and determination in some parts, but for a whole series of other reasons. First of all, Croatia and Serbia are neighbouring countries, and it is instructions that neighbouring countries raise this form of police cooperation to a higher level than those defined by international agreements of higher rank, cooperation within Europol, Interpol, etc. The second element is the fact that both countries are in the Balkans. The Balkans, which is not only a geographical concept but also a Colloquial space where organised crime operates and has some specific phenomena more intensely than in other parts of Europe. The fact is that both countries are on the main route with a huge amount of narcotics entering Europe, the fact that the route is a very frequent business of organised crime groups at trade, that is, smuggling not only of narcotics, i.e. intoxicating, but also of cigarettes, other goods including weapons, but unfortunately people. We know that the mafia clans in both countries work very well together and that they would say they work beyond the border. Only the case of the murder of Mr Ivo Pukanic already shows how complicated, complex and well-stalked this network of cooperation of organised criminal groups in both Croatia and Serbia. The same is the fact that the Republic of Serbia is one of our neighbouring countries with which we have no defined border issue, above all on the Danube and the fact that the Republic of Croatia enters a new regime of obligations by entering the European Union, because by entering the Schengen system, the Republic of Croatia will submit the kind of burden that the police, or the governments of the countries on the Union's external edge, will soon be such a positioned state. National interest, the state interest of the Republic of Croatia gives the border, the Schengen border as soon as possible from the Croatian borders. The fact is that in recent years, police authorities in both Croatia and Serbia have achieved a whole series of quality cooperation programmes, but it is also the fact that this cooperation was driven by the need, an angry need, rather than a real comfortable, well-designed legal framework. Therefore, it is good that this agreement in particular strengthens cooperation in the area of the elimination of public security and public order, the prevention and prosecution of criminal offences, and the state of security in the control of the state border. Because this is the framework within which the largest number of incidents occur, including the crimes both states and police both have at the top of their priorities as a solution, because they are inevitably affecting the state of crime within these countries themselves. We believe that this agreement will improve or allow for the improvement of police effectiveness since the possibility of communication in emergency situations besides regular channels between national central authorities can take place directly between competent police authorities on the ground. But also specialised police bodies that can intervene immediately in preventing and suppressing criminal offences. Similarly, this agreement also defines the issue of official transit of police forces by one state or another through the territory of another country in order to save time and financial resources. Of course, it is good that we are not touching this agreement, or trying to overestimate one issue of the unresolved border between the two states, but it is flexiblely placed in a way that allows the police to act rather than outsmart where the line to which the jurisdiction of one or another police is going is. Chapters detailing the possibilities of cooperation in the field of sport security, witness protection, undercover investigators' actions, and police co-operation in countering corruption and other crimes against official duty also improve the co-operation of Croatian and Serbian police. In recent experiences, we have seen how practice without the existence of a good and quality agreement on two police can actually turn into a basis that enables criminals and disruptors of various profiles to find refuge in another country without a problem, to get away from Croatian laws and to find it difficult to trace them. It is a good idea to exchange information on ownership and ownership of real estate, movables and securities, as this can contribute significantly to the fight against corruption in both countries. The fact that we have recorded in the past seven months as certain successes in the fight against corruption and organised crime seems to be waiting for Serbia. But both countries have very strong interests in exchanging this type of information and data easier to place near organised crime, especially corruption, money laundering, the removal of dirty money, etc. A more serious objection to this agreement could possibly be found in a lack of measures to improve police co-operation in the persecution and location of war crimes suspects. In this regard, both countries have expressed their interests, serious problems in front of the international tribunal, and both countries are, in fact, a haven or refuge, whether they are part of the suspects and, of course, those who committed crimes in Croatia and who are on the run today. First of all, suspects are thought of as large-caliber criminals, not only for works committed in Croatia but also in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We hope, however, that this situation will alleviate the fact that in the area of co-operation of state attorneys, a whole series of good and quality agreements and concrete actions have been achieved, but we do not think it would be bad for this type of cooperation, given that the issue of the persecution of war criminals to be burdened by both countries for a long time, however, in an agreement of this kind. But he's already signed. As such a text cannot be changed, but we regret that both sides that negotiated it and agreed did not find ways to define and enter into such an interstate agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45826	Thank you very much. There are no more applications on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one was applied for an individual debate by distinguished counterpart Niko Rebic. Here's your colleague, Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45827	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of this proposal for a law confirming the 2002 agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police cooperation ceases to apply to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Government of the Republic of Yugoslavia. The law also confirms the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police co-operation in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of this law establishes a legal framework for mutual co-operation in the field of the prevention of organised and serious crime and legally settles basic issues related to the prevention, prevention and detection of criminal offences of organised and serious crime. This agreement is the result of a joint desire by the two countries to promote and deepen mutual co-operation that will contribute to the improvement of the relationship between the two countries. What is the particular interest of our country is to improve police cooperation between the two countries by removing the dangers of public security and public order, the area of prevention and prosecution of criminal offences, and the area of security in the control of the state border in the border area. The main objective of confirming this agreement is to provide mutual assistance and to coordinate public action in the fight against organised crime. The agreement itself on police co-operation between the two states was signed in Rijeka this year and was divided into eight chapters. In the first chapter of the Contracting Party, they shall strengthen cooperation in the field of the elimination of public security and public policy threats, the prevention of prosecution of criminal offences and the state of security at border borders in the border area. The second chapter of Articles 3 to 5 lays down general provisions on police cooperation between the two countries. Chapter 3 discusses the areas of cooperation between the police authorities of the two countries and includes the exchange of experiences on the application of national legislation and the prevention of crime, as well as the exchange of information on development tendencies in the fight against corruption and other criminal offences. Chapter 4 is governed by specific forms of cooperation which discusses controlled shipments of drugs, weapons, explosive substances and counterfeit money in order to identify employers and other participants. We've also arranged reconnaissances of undercover investigators. In Article 9, police bodies shall be mutually assisted in the field of witness protection. The assistance shall include exchanges of information, logistics assistance and acceptance of persons required for protection. In Article 10 of the Contracting Party, a liaison officer may be referred to the police bodies of another State with the consent of its national central authority. Contracting parties will cooperate and exchange information related to sporting events. The exchange also includes the delivery of personal information on fans prone to violence as well as the deployment and acceptance of police teams during the maintenance of those sports events and their activities in the area of the other side. Chapter 5 speaks of cooperation in the field of state border surveillance. This Chapter regulates that representatives of the border police of both states cooperate in the area of surveillance and protection of the state border. The use of mixed procedures in accordance with national legislation, common contact services, mutual communication and telecommunications is foreseen. Given the nature of the procedures that the state is formally expressing its readiness to be tied to already signed international contracts but starting with a common desire to improve relations in the field of police cooperation, I think this bill should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45828	Thank you very much. In the next debate, a colleague, Ivan Shantek, applied. Comrade Shantek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45829	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police cooperation so that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140 of our Constitution become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police co-operation is the result of not only a joint desire to promote and deepen mutual cooperation in the field of police cooperation, especially in the area of combating the international threat to public security and combating international crime, but I would also say a direct need because we are witnessing current events as important for the prevention of criminality which does not know the borders. Following an agreement between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the federal government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on co-operation in the fight against organised crime and illicit drug trafficking signed in Belgrade in 2002. This new agreement represents a continuation, further promotion and deepening of mutual co-operation between the two countries. The aim of Croatia and Serbia's mutual cooperation is to provide mutual assistance and to improve the effectiveness and coordination of action in the fight against international crime. Under this agreement, the two countries provide, under their respective responsibilities, assistance for the identification of vehicle owners, driving licences and similar permits, establishment of residence, residence and legal basis, identification of owners and users of telephone connections, identification, notification of the origin of things, e.g. arms, motor vehicles, waterships and notice of ownership and ownership of real estate, movables and securities, which is particularly important for the control of corruption. In individual cases, the police of two countries shall exchange information with each other without a request if such information is of police interest. An important area of police relations between the two countries concerns cooperation in the field of education and professional training through exchange of curricula and programmes, joint seminars and exercises and exchanges of lecturers, experts and the like. It may be important at this point to stress that police are also working together to combat corruption, which includes exchanging experiences on the application of national legislation, exchange of information and analysis on the causes and development of the tendency to combat corruption. The agreement regulated the remaining areas of importance for police cooperation such as controlled deliveries, reconnaissances of undercover investigators, witness protection, cooperation in the field of sport security and major events, co-operation in the area of state border surveillance. According to this agreement, the official of one country which, in the context of cooperation under this Agreement, is located in the area of another country, does not have police authority and in the implementation of these measures they are obliged to comply with national legislation of another country. The entry into force of this Agreement ceases to be the current agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Government of the Republic of Yugoslavia on co-operation in the fight against organised crime, illegal drug trafficking signed in Belgrade on 8 May 2002. For all of this, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45830	Thank you, fellow MP. And here comes the debate of distinguished colleague Angelka Mihalic. Here you go, colleague Mihalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, a number of mutual agreements have been concluded that have legally been regulated a number of areas of cooperation of interest for both sides. The agreement between the two governments on police co-operation is the result of a common desire to promote and deepen mutual co-operation in the area of police co-operation, particularly in the area of combating international public security danger and combating international crime. For both countries, this is one of the most important agreements that constitute a fundamental element for further deepening and mutual cooperation between the two countries and contributes to the continuation of the consolidation and development of the friendly relations between the two countries that are the main security factors in this part of Europe. Given the great importance of international police cooperation of interest, the Republic of Croatia is promoting and deepening cooperation with the Republic of Serbia in the areas of the removal of threats to public security and public order, in the area of prevention and prosecution of criminal offences and in the area of security in the control of the state border in the border area. The aim of this cooperation is to provide mutual assistance and to improve action in the fight against organised international crime. This agreement is certainly welcome and necessary for both sides because it is certainly the interest of both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia to have the best solutions... the prevention and prevention of, above all, organised international crime, but also by preventing and curbing crime in their own countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is known that crime knows no bounds, especially at times when there were no agreements and relationships between the two mentioned governments for known and understandable reasons. It was certainly a golden age for the flowering of crime on both sides of the border because the criminal miles had never had these problems that had their own time in our country, and especially the problem of their joint action was not a war situation but more so, then it was certainly a golden age for the blooming of crime. It is also far behind us and certainly one and the other governments that are operating now already in regulated systems, especially the Republic of Croatia, must sit at a common table and agree and sign international cooperation which is certainly in the interest of most of their citizens. By signing and adopting such an agreement as this one is important, it can and must fix the security situation in both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. The major progress made by this agreement is that both parties, within their jurisdiction, provide administrative assistance to each other on request to eliminate public security and public order threats. A further important and significant provision of this Agreement should also be highlighted, and it refers to the fact that the parties may, on request referred to above, provide each other with assistance in conducting investigations by means of official persons acting in secret or with an amended identity. Of course, this agreement also covers a number of other measures that undoubtedly contribute to a high degree of security of citizens and property on both sides of the border. What I would still like to emphasise is that part of the agreement relating to cooperation in the field of sport security. We are witnessing increasing riots and a generally unacceptable security situation in sports stadiums, especially in football. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior have recently made great progress in this area, but it is still not enough to say on Saturdays or Sundays during a football match a family with children could come to the football stadium, especially if this sport competition of clubs would be clubs or teams from the countries signatories of this agreement. It should therefore be commended that this agreement covers both the moment and the explicity in which it states that the Contracting Parties will cooperate and exchange information related to sporting events. This exchange also includes the supply of personal information on fans and persons prone to violence on sports grounds. Cooperation also includes the deployment of police teams during sports events and their activities in the state field of the other Contracting Party, as well as exchange of experiences. Finally, it should be said that the most important thing when the Assembly adopts this agreement is that both parties apply it without delay and that the purpose and results on both sides will surely be of great immeasurable importance. I will certainly vote for this agreement because of all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45832	Thank you, fellow MP. Next, a distinguished colleague, Mato Bilnjic, checked in. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. We have an agreement on cooperation between the police of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. Contracting parties to this Agreement shall strengthen cooperation in the area of the elimination of public security and public policy threats, the prevention and prosecution of criminal offences, the state of security of border surveillance. What is important in this agreement is that without the cooperation of the two police officers between the Republic of Croatia and the police of Serbia, it will be very difficult to end the crime simply from Southeast Europe through Croatia towards Western Europe, Central and Western Europe. This agreement also sets out possibilities for staff assistance, material organisational support, joint exercises. And let us be aware that today criminals have far more money than one and the other police for equipment when they want to create certain problems, that is, when they want to carry out some criminal activities and take in a certain profit or execute the liquidation of individuals, which has proved that the mob, or organized criminals, have better equipment, better weapons, so they are more willing than both our police officers and Serbian police officers, even though we can say that our officers are in line with the equipment they have that they do their job very well. So this agreement will certainly improve one professional, one police expertise, and certainly one intelligence exchange when it comes to two police, so Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because we know that this crime is somehow going around the countries of the former Yugoslavia, meaning from Serbia via Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and that it is being closed here somewhere in this part. And that this highway and rail corridor is ours, so today and today this traffic corridor that will go along the Sava River is certainly one of the significant corridors and tempting and necessary for all the crime that over the thin borders or soft borders of the Southeast European countries is trying to reach the goal across our country, means rich European countries. Certainly by reading this law, I think one step forward in the fight against crime, organised crime, and certainly for the safety of both peoples and from what is stated, I will support this proposal for a contract, an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45834	Thank you very much. The time for individual debate is up, and the latest application of the individual debate is the distinguished colleague, Ranko Ostojić. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45835	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I wouldn't normally comment. These agreements, when we adopt them, often pass in the best interest of achieving the best possible fight against organised crime and corruption in cooperation with other countries. But I think this is about an extra exception. Namely, as it became a Bermuda triangle in which ships disappeared, such a situation was similar with the Balkan triangle. I explained in this way those years in early 2000 and 2001, the second and third ones what is actually happening because of the lack of cooperation between the police most important to us in neighbouring countries, and this is what I will try to illustrate it in a very practical case. So a Belgrade criminal commits a crime or robs a bank in Zagreb, hides in Sarajevo. And to the question of colleagues, what does that mean, why do I mention the reason was very simple. In Belgrade, police are happy their criminal is gone. In Zagreb, the situation is such that we have no idea who anything is going on, and in Sarajevo they are happy that they spend money there. Now that you've turned that triangle around then it's always happened that they used the advantage of just what didn't mean quality cooperation. I have to even say, it was total incarceration. The situation began to change in 2002. I'd just say that's when Serbia was admitted to Interpol membership. Until then, we didn't even have formal opportunities to act together. This, along with the approval of Croatia, which was already a member and in Budapest, was resolved. I think that's when the steps begin to finally achieve what's in the common interest. Not to be too long, I think it is extremely important not only to adopt such an agreement, but to the police, and I look forward to it being realised today by me the most important point if my ministry colleagues will listen that part of the word that says "can have a liaison officer" can be realised most urgently because it is precisely the best way to realize both sides. I'm not saying this for no reason. It has been shown that with all those countries that have realized with us liaison officers that we have achieved far the best results and I don't think it should be a cost for either Croatia or Serbia given the dangers that are happening around it. Here's my thanks, Mr. Vice President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45836	Thank you very much, colleague Ostojić. Like I said, this was the last application for an individual hearing. A fellow State Secretary, Ivica Buconjic, appeared on behalf of the promoter for the closing statement. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45837	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad there were so many individual debates and debates on behalf of the clubs and that everyone who answered the word supported the adoption of this law. I must say, indeed, from all the data that is being kept by the MUP, it is evident that this is exactly the kind of agreement that is the most effective tool in collaboration with the police of other countries. I also agree that this is not one in a series of international agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia because Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, is a neighbouring country, because the criminals of these two countries have been working together all this time and in wartime. And that is why it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, and especially the Republic of Croatia, that the Ministry of Interior and Police will get as many better tools as possible in the fight against crime on, above all, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and then have a synergy effect on the state of crime in the Republic of Serbia. I have tried to follow in particular the debate of the esteemed representative Lucin, since he was Minister of the Interior, and there is no doubt that there is further knowledge of how the MUP works and how it works, so I would just say that it is certain that the Ministry of Internal Affairs, apart from these co-operations, also cooperates with the governments of other countries with the ministries and police of other countries, both within Interpol and within Europol. The interior ministry also signed an agreement with Europol, which is certainly an additional confirmation that the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia is a highly professional institution with which Europol and Europol members co-operate equally. And what's very important is that they exchange data. In fact, there has already been a situation to exchange data with Europol, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has had to prove its high professionalism, it has been necessary to prove that high standards are met and that the agreement with Europol is certainly one of the very important documents that the Ministry of the Interior has certainly received recognition that great steps are approaching the criteria, criteria and standards in force in the countries of the European Union. It was also a matter of border protection. I, too, must say with pleasure that the Croatian MUP has met almost all the criteria regarding the criteria for entry into the European Union. There is only one more criterion left for filling the border police according to the number established by the Integrated Border Management Strategy, and these days that criterion will be met. As far as professional, professional criteria are concerned, the Ministry of the Interior is fully prepared for the opening and closing of Chapter 24. There are several more political issues, criteria, most often to regulate the border with Serbia and the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, but these are political issues. As for professional and professional criteria, the Ministry of the Interior is absolutely ready to open and close Chapter 24. The Ministry of Interior is also preparing speedily to meet the Schengen criteria. The ministry has adopted the Schengen Action Plan and we will certainly be ready to protect the borders of the Republic of Croatia in due time, which will also be the external borders of the European Union in a few years. As regards exchanges and personal data and exchanges of classified data, this is a very sensitive area because national legislation and the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia special laws regulate these issues and these formulations provided for in this Agreement are the result of compliance with the legal provisions of the national laws of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia that regulate the use, availability and exchange of and personal data and classified data. In addition, the Republic of Croatia speedily sign agreements on use and exchange, delivery... data with all countries, if precisely that mark of a certain degree of secrecy were not an obstacle to the exchange of information that could be crucial to a more successful fight against crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the costs, it says that the costs, that the application of this law will not require additional costs. That's right. Namely, the interior ministry has envisioned in its budget certain items of funds and for the implementation of these activities envisioned by the agreement on co-operation with the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia. And in conclusion, I agree that this is a very important agreement that will be confirmed by this law, because one of our vital security issues and interests is that co-operation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Serbia is of high quality, it is effective, it is possible to be more direct and direct so that the Ministry of Interior and the police of both states can fight together against crime which they do not know and recognise the border that has just been shown in the Republic of Croatia in the last few years. And I am sure that this is exactly what will happen that the adoption of this agreement will further intensify co-operation, that Croatian police will be even more effective in the fight against crime in which we have these international elements, in this case with Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45838	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45839	Secondly, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Police Cooperation. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 468. The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Police Cooperation. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 100 votes for, one abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45840	And we move to the 3rd exact agenda, it reads - - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 466 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. And then in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate on this law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Reports from the board's session were received on the benches. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45841	Thank you very much. Here's just a sequel to this previous point. Namely, and this Agreement on... between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is another instrument in the fight against illegal migration, and preventing and combating these illegal migrations is certainly one of the elements and the fight against crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If trends and statistics in illegal migration in the Republic of Croatia are monitored, it is evident that the Ministry of Interior, or the Republic of Croatia, is achieving increasingly good results in controlling and preventing illegal migration. I'll say only one piece of information that, say, in 2000, there were about 25 thousand attempts to cross the state border illegally, so last year 2009, that figure would be a thousand 868. This is the best indicator that the Republic of Croatia will certainly be able to meet the Schengen criteria, as I said earlier about the debate on this previous point, and that the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia will be absolutely ready to protect the borders of the Republic of Croatia for a year and as the external borders of the European Union. In the context of these illegal migrations, a special place also belongs to the problem of persons found in the area of the Republic of Croatia who are to be returned to countries of origin, i.e. countries from which these illegal migrants are found in the area of the Republic of Croatia where they should be returned. In this context, it is also important to note that the Republic of Croatia is becoming a country of destination more and more than a country of transit. In fact, we have this significant reduction in prevention at the border, but this number of found immigrants in the Republic of Croatia does not fall as fast as their capture at the border falls when illegal attempt to enter the Republic of Croatia, which in itself says that we can expect that the closer the EU will surely be an interesting destination for illegals, i.e. nationals of other countries to come to the Republic of Croatia and settle illegally. As a result, such readmission agreements are very important and this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will certainly also contribute to bringing this problem of foreign citizens who are staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia as effectively as possible, effectively and to returning the foreign nationals who are illegally staying in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to their countries of origin as soon as possible and with as little cost as possible. In fact, every day the stay of foreign citizens who are in an illegal stay in the Republic of Croatia certainly costs all taxpayers. It is therefore important to address these problems of the return of illegal migrants, i.e. foreign citizens without legal residence in the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, better and more effectively. That is why I am sure that this Law on Confirmation of the Agreement will also help to make this control of illegal migration between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia better. To make the return of illegal migrants found in the Republic of Serbia more effective, their return to the country of origin, i.e. in the Republic of Serbia, will ultimately contribute to better and greater security for all Croatian citizens in the area of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45842	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you, then we'll move on to a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Tomislav Culjak. Here's your colleague, Chuljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45843	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State. The Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia, is making extraordinary efforts to build and further strengthen institutional and administrative capacities that contribute to the improvement of the security system. Especially at the state border of the Republic of Croatia. The interior ministry has significantly improved the state of security in the Republic of Croatia through a series of programmes, plans and activities implemented as well as better police efficiency. Especially with regard to the prevention of cross-border crime and illegal migration, and thus a favourable situation has also been reflected in the security of the region, which confirms the reports of competent European institutions. Thanks to all these activities since 2000, we have so far recorded a continuing decline in illegal migration. The secretary of state mentioned that in 2000 more than 24 thousand people were recorded in an illegal transition, nearly 25 thousand, the figure was reduced to about 4 thousand in 2007. 2008 at 2013 by foreign citizens, which represents a significant drop in illegal migration. Such a trend persisted, we heard from the secretary of state, and in 2009. Also in the process of surrendering and accepting persons whose entry or stay in the Republic of Croatia has been illegally increased efficiency. So in 2008, for the first time more foreign citizens returned to other countries, 677, than was accepted, 475 foreign citizens. The same trend is recorded in 2009. An important contract in its application showed certain shortcomings, and it was also not in line with the EU acquis. Of course, negotiations and the conclusion of the new agreement have therefore been joined. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, signed on 25 May 2009 as well as the corresponding protocol, will make it much easier and easier for the process of surrender and acceptance of persons at the common state border and further improve the effectiveness of the police, or the border police of the Republic of Serbia, to combat illegal migration. The Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Interior, has fulfilled one of the obligations under the Integrated Border Management Action Plan of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Action Plan for the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's migration policy. All this directly contributes to the fulfilment of obligations in the negotiating process and preparations for the control of the EU's future external border to Schengen standards. Therefore, by confirming this agreement, the Ministry of the Interior will receive another significant and effective means of combating cross-border crime, especially illegal migration. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons who are entering or staying illegally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45844	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Shime Lucin will take part in the debate on behalf of the SDP club. Here's your colleague, Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, as the Secretary of State himself said, this law can be observed in the context of the law that we previously discussed, or as one small part of it, so to speak, specialized part. So, the SDP club will also have to say it at the beginning, support this law because it clearly represents one step forward and actually corresponds to the modern one, so to speak, the moment, or the changes that have taken place in this space. I must be honest and say that I expected this agreement, which was first signed in 2002, to experience its changes in terms of the changed political situation and if you want a geopolitical situation in these areas. From this I do not know that at a time when it was signed first for all European countries, not only the European countries needed visas for Serbs. It was still Yugoslavia back then. So within Yugoslavia there was Kosovo and Montenegro, etc. And we're thinking simply of the changed circumstances that probably a few years earlier could have gone with this agreement. In this case, I will express hope that this agreement will not remain and that it is not just typical. Why? Because when you take this type of readmission contract of this new generation you de facto when you change, say the Republic of Serbia, let's mention Israel or Moldova, de facto you have the same story. However, I would like to warn of some specificities. These specificities were like this, that de facto until five years ago, six Serbia, that is, Yugoslavia was the main starting point of the Chinese who went through Croatia as a transit country but intended to settle in Croatia. Not to say how much these costs were for Croatia unless you had arguments and evidence, according to the agreement to return them to a third country, or country of departure. Unfortunately, we brought them back mostly to the country where they came from, so the country of origin is China, and you know how much money it costs. Not to talk about other things, or political environment. So for us, this agreement is not a matter of police cooperation and police effectiveness. No one here doubts that if the police get the space and are allowed to do their job in a good way. However, I am going back to that political environment and the state of politics. We're actually interested in one important thing here and it's going to point to a lot of things. Has this agreement passed in the Republic of Serbia a legal-formal procedure, or has it been verified in their assembly. It's an indicator for me in the sense that this agreement will work from tomorrow or in a month's time. So, the issue of Croatia and Serbia's relations, in fact, cannot be seen in a certain way when we talk about this problem as well as any other problem, without taking all of this into account in relation to the European Union. Therefore, it is obvious that the European Union countries are liberalising their relationship with Republika Srpska. However, Croatia as a country that will probably soon, I hope for that year, a year and a half into the European Union, will come into a certain situation. Why? Because we will not have a problem with the admission of people who will emigrate from Croatia to Serbia or will pass through Croatia and emigrate to Serbia but will have a reverse process. And that will cause serious problems. A team before that it's a logic thing, because what you're more Western, you're more exposed to transit or even not more transitory than target destinations. It must not be borne in mind that Croatia also has a resolved asylum issue. We will have to work for another year and two days to give one or two asylums at the level of the year. But probably the day we enter the European Union, and especially when the Schengen regime comes in a few years, we will no longer have asylum power, because in the end we will expect to think more about it and that we will probably have more asylum requirements. So, the question of reading for me first of all is the political question. I would now take advantage of the opportunity and congratulate the police on good results, i.e. the results in which it is actually shown that Croatia has less and less problems with illegal migrants. But I'd be very careful here. Since the issue is a gray zone, so we do not know exactly, we can only estimate how many people have passed through Croatia and in some third country, as many as there are in Croatia. So we do evaluations based on certain indicators or police activity. I have often warned of this when I was on occasion, because already somewhere since 2002, Croatia has been a permanent record of the fall of illegal migrants. Often, even today, I believe from the European Union, i.e. from the Commission of Certain Commissions, good grades are given. So, I just want to warn you of one more thing, and that is that it would be good if we had these agreements that are particularly important to us politically, because they refer to our neighbours and certain stories about the way to the European Union to get some statistical indicators. In fact, let's see to what extent the 2002 reading contract has fulfilled its function, so that we can combine it in a few years with this agreement. And one last thing and one last thing. So I read this agreement carefully, I know that he is in this situation when the travel regime towards Serbia is slightly liberalising, that it is more important for third countries than in this case for Serbia and if you want for Croatia, but where the concepts are defined, I have seen what is a citizen of Croatia, to define what is a citizen of Serbia. But don't forget one fact, which is that there are a lot of people in these areas who have two citizenships. Now someone will wonder how someone who is a Croatian citizen can be an illegal in Croatia. Sure, sure, if he crossed the state line illegally. Let's just say I know a few cases, and you know I do. It's just those who go and come from crime miles and go after crime most of the time. Perhaps there is only my objection, perhaps since it is a specific matter that should have been foreseen in this reading contract by persons who have both citizenships. So I'm finishing the SDP club will support this agreement. And here's a suggestion that somewhere in the coming time, perhaps when we are able to talk again about these topics with regard to Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the countries that are from a security point of view but also of political importance that we might get a plate or two of some kind of material to see how things are actually going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45846	Thank you very much, colleague Lucin. On behalf of the HNS Club, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45847	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. This is, therefore, the second agreement which addresses the very important issues of cooperation between the police authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, particularly because of the previously highlighted problem of the need for promotion and cooperation, given the fact that we are, which all kinds of challenges and risks we face as both countries, but in this particular case, it is therefore about mechanisms for transiting third-country nationals that we welcome and we will accept this proposal and support it in the vote. However, there are certain dilemmas as far as we are concerned, only in Articles 13 and 2. So we would ask the Secretary of State or the Proposer to give us clarification in this regard. We, as liberal Democrats, are particularly sensitive when it comes to the protection of human rights, so we have a case of rejection of transit, so in which cases a transit of persons across our territory will be refused. It is said, therefore, that what we are interested in is a situation in which people or persons concerned with the threat of torture, punishment, death penalty or the initiation of criminal proceedings can happen in the country of destination. Therefore, in these cases, the requesting State may refuse transit through its territory. We're wondering if it's possible to raise this to a higher level and define it as a standard and there's no provision he can but will. So there is no space for abuse in which we would throw anyone out of such a kind of extradition or transit that guarantees or predominant torture, torture or possibly death penalty. It was independent of this, therefore, European or non-European countries, but the practice showed that not only outside the territory of the European Union but even within the borders of the European Union were things that the local public knew nothing about and which today, as scandalous information, come out and even tear down ministers in certain governments because someone gave himself the right to open even camps, torture sites, places for questioning and transit of suspected persons in third countries. This is not the property of the European Union, it is not the gain that Croatia should agree to, and in that sense we would be more satisfied if it were a stronger solution to that issue. Furthermore, what we are particularly interested in is whether the obligation set out in point 4 of Article 15 has been respected so far, so this is the obligation of both the Contracting Parties and the Republic of Croatia and Serbia to provide all the information that is personal data to be supplied to another country. And it's a minimum of respect for human rights to give these people all the information that has been exchanged in the meantime or will be exchanged between the two states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45848	Thank you very much. And the last application on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, colleague Stanko Grčić. Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45849	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party also supports the text in question of a bill and agreement because they, together with the Police Cooperation Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, further strengthen and improve the mutual co-operation of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. The agreement is an additional tool for the Ministry of Interior in combating and in controlling illegal activities or controlling the illegal crossings of our border or preventing such crossings. This agreement will also allow the return of illegally staying citizens in the Republic of Croatia and will make Croatia a step closer to meeting certain required conditions for the establishment of the Schengen border or ensuring the external borders of the European Union tomorrow when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. The current co-operation between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia in the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay has been unlawfully implemented on the basis of a contract signed since 2002. Since it is in the interest of both countries to strengthen and deepen cooperation by signing this Agreement, questions will be properly addressed regarding the surrender and acceptance of their own nationals and third-country nationals as well as persons without nationals who are illegally entering or staying in the territory of the other Contracting Party will be settled. Following this, we hope that the adoption of this law will facilitate the work of our competent services in institutions, also with partners from the Republic of Serbia on certain issues, and above all we mean the surrender and acceptance of the States of the Contracting Parties, surrender and acceptance of third-country nationals and stateless persons, and then transit of third-country nationals, as well as the costs of surrender and acceptance to the state border, as well as clear protection of personal data as other issues covered by the agreement. The law confirms the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This is clear only one in a series of signed agreements of the Republic of Croatia that contributes to the fight against crime. The Agreement establishes the necessary legal framework for mutual cooperation between the two countries in the field of surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party club also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45850	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to the individual. His first application was from his colleague Niko Rebic. Here you go, colleague Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal will not, in fact, be the first such proposal for a law to be adopted, as in the relations between the two countries, a whole series of bilateral agreements have been concluded which, starting from common specific interests, legally regulates a whole series of areas of cooperation of interest to both countries. The current co-operation of the interior ministries of the two states in the area of surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay was unlawfully implemented on the basis of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Yugoslavia signed in Belgrade in 2002. The adoption of this law also confirms the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, thereby establishing a legal framework for mutual cooperation between the two countries relating to the area of surrender and acceptance of their own nationals, as well as a citizen of third countries and a stateless person who illegally enters the country. The agreement between the two states on surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegally signed in Rijeka in the 5th month of this year is therefore an agreement whose enforcement is very important for the security of our country. The signing of this agreement certainly means improving co-operation between the two countries, but also the determination that both countries will fight illegal migration. Three important chapters of this Agreement are the surrender and acceptance of the citizens of the Contracting Parties, surrender and acceptance of third-country nationals and persons without citizenship and transit of third-country nationals. These chapters detail the actions of the two countries in the surrender and acceptance of persons and transit of third-country nationals, but also regulates who is carrying the cost of accepting persons and transiting persons to the destination state. This Agreement shall in particular provide for the protection of personal data, which means that they are collected, processed and protected in accordance with internal legislation and international contracts. The party receiving the information may only use it for the purpose specified in this Agreement. The Contracting Party providing the information shall ensure that the data is correct. If the information is not correct, it shall be immediately notified to the Contracting Party in order to correct or destroy it. Data shall only be stored for as long as necessary for the purpose for which they are collected. Each Party shall protect notified personal data from unauthorised access, modification or detection. Article 20 provides that this Agreement shall be concluded indefinitely when it enters into force, but that each Contracting Party may cancel this Agreement by written notice to the other Party by diplomatic means. The withdrawal shall take effect 30 days from the date of receipt of such notification. It follows from all the above mentioned in this Agreement that there is a need for cooperation in this area of the office and the adoption of a law on the validation of an agreement between the two countries under an urgent procedure and the opinion that this draft law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45852	Thanks a lot, buddy. The following has been registered for discussion by distinguished counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go, colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45853	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would first of all point to this agreement with everything already stated about its importance and something which is a financial effect. Croatia is a country that has so far been an integral part of the Balkan route, a transitory one. So we were satisfied with those numbers and those of 25,000 came at the end of 1500 with a little bit of attention to those figures that are all the reasons why it happens that way. Because if we looked at the structure of those who were illegal migrants in previous periods, then we would notice the following, and that today those who are citizens of the European Union, above all Romanians, on the other hand, and even Hungarians, Czech Republic, Slovakia, all of them no longer need to be illegal migrants, to use the Balkan route. On the other hand, changes in the visa regime and recognition of Kosovo by the Republic of Croatia also have a significant impact on the very fall of illegal migrants. And most importantly, just the implementation of the readmission contract that was made since 2002 until today. I think it's very good to look at everything that's actually waiting for us. While illegal migration in other European states parliaments, trust me and the conference on this particular topic is one of the most important, it seems that we will only come to this. One of the influences why I mention it is because Croatia is irrefutable and what is important, there is no more transit through Croatia, but also now we are faced with the situation that many people do not need to apply this readmission agreement, because they have entered Croatia, they have found their refuge, not in Europe anymore, but in Croatia, a country that will very soon become the European Union. I'd just repeat it for the sake of illustration, which is that we don't have a reading contract, which means when an illegal migrant who comes from a country we don't have a contract with, we're obliged to deliver it as already stated, in China, on our cost. It was charter planes, because no one's ready to take someone unless you have proof of it or no readmission contract. Those mentioned 475, this is the result of the readmission contract, I believe specifically with the Republic of Slovenia above all, and this means that those who have passed the border of the Republic of Croatia, caught in Slovenia, had some proof, meaning specifically a tramway or bus ticket with which they passed through the Republic of Croatia or some other proof and the basis of that agreement were returned. That number's looking forward to it, which means there's a smaller number of people coming back to us, so we have to think about delivering them. But don't forget in that game the figures yes and of that 475 part we delivered through these 675 because we found evidence that they came from the country with which we have a read mission contract. The border police, the construction of the Schengen system, are something and all of those elements that have been invested in protecting our borders for years with the help of the European Union, along with those good advice that has been accepted. This means how to guard that border because we have a serious time ahead, and this means that Croatia will be the one where there will be no passing Balkan route anymore, but the Balkan route will come to us. That's what's important, and for that reason, we'll soon face what I can only illustrate to you that Malta is a country that has more inflows, meaning illegal immigrants than there are a total army, police and all other regular forces on that island. I think it's very important. I'd like first of all to welcome the efforts that are being done here, but I think we'll face further problems. I would ask that, in this sense, when we talk about illegal immigration, we respect this part of all those elements that will happen to us in future and that the preparation, the construction of a Schengen system in the full system means integrated border management, something that has been built for years when it comes to life, we must be ready for that time in which absolutely no Chinese will die as it does not die in Western Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45854	Thank you very much, colleague Ostojić. And the last application for an individual debate, the distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think everything's said in the past. I just wanted to say that this agreement is certainly one big step forward, one big step forward because today, the Republic of Croatia is in an unspeakable position and immigrants illegal immigration in the Republic of Croatia itself through other countries is not so lucrative but simply Croatia is used as a transit. However, Croatia's entry into the European Union and when it strengthens our economy raises the question of whether then the Republic of Croatia will be one place where people from Southeast Europe or across the borders of Southeastern Europe will enter the Republic of Croatia again and how we will solve this illegal transition of those third-country nationals, where they are returned and how they are managed. In fact, we are aware today that when we go to the sea in summer that we have a lot of illegal workers down there, people who are certainly not received anywhere, they don't even know how to speak Croatian... nor with an emphasis from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they've already come to this area with bread. So this step is certainly a big step forward, and with all this, these remarks that are being made and which are being made today in this law, and should be carefully considered. I lived and worked in today's European Union before the war. See what the French have done to themselves with illegal crossings. When a small amount of illegals are created, they invite people to come into the area, in these places illegally to settle, to have as many as possible, to create one critical mass so that not all of them can be deported. Then they're looking for asylums, then they're looking for accommodations, they're looking for various stays in that country. And that what is happening to certain countries with these illegals does not happen to us, so I fully support and all the praise particularly of this Article 1 which has told us what is in that part. And here's my support for this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45856	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the applications for an individual hearing. In conclusion, on behalf of the applicant, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45857	Thank you very much. I'd just like to look back at a few discussions here. What Mr. Lucin said that having less registered illegal crossings doesn't mean there's only so many of them. It is clearly a grey figure and there will always be cases of illegal crossing state borders. However, it is certainly good that we have a significant decline in catching foreigners in an attempt to cross the state border from about 25,000 to 1860 2009. And regardless of that grey figure, it is certainly a significant result and success of the Ministry of the Interior, because the success of the Croatian border police itself is certainly a factor of deterring from trying to cross the state border. It is certain that this agreement is part of an instrument in the fight against crime, but it is also one of the segments in the conduct of migration policy. In this regard, all European Union countries and the European Union also have requests for the Republic of Croatia to successfully fight illegal migration, but also to successfully control legal migration and that these legal migrations take place in accordance with the needs and interests of the European Union and its individual members. I was also in Spain a few days ago who took over the Presidency of the European Union at an informal meeting of interior ministers. One of the topics was precisely this migration, i.e. the European Union's migration policy and the migration policy of members of the European Union. And there will certainly be what Mr Ostojić said because the European Union will have a significantly more proactive approach to the problem of migration because all EU member states will soon have labour problems and the definition of immigration policy will be led safely in such a way as to control the legal migration of those foreign citizens who are potentially in need of labour in the members of the European Union. And that illegal migration, and among illegal migrants, there are a lot of criminals who can be more effective at curbing themselves at the external borders. As a result, this agreement can also be seen with two aspects, and one of the tools in increasing the security of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in this part of the measures that the Republic of Croatia is taking in the control of illegal and legal migration. In fact, it is already in the works, but are in line with the draft amendments and additions to the Law on Foreigners, the Law on Asylum and a series of other legislations that regulate this matter, and all in line with not only the legal acquis of the European Union, but also the conduct of a proactive migration policy in the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with our needs that can be expected in the next period. That is why this agreement is also particularly important, as it relates to the Republic of Serbia with several aspects and will surely be accepted through the adoption of this law and will be of multiple benefit to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45858	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we have the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45859	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 466. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I therefore put to the vote the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 104 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45860	And we move to the fourth item of the agenda, which is - - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 476 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. And in accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty on the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Reports from the board's session have been received. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45861	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. As you can see before you, the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights, with the final proposal for a law. The aim of this law is to confirm the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights, which complements and discusses ways of exercising the rights of a child established by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention on the Rights of the Child discusses the obligations of adults in relation to the child, as well as the obligations of a number of social factors in relation to child protection. This is the first document in which the child and in which the child is approached as a subject with rights, not only as a person in need of special protection. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child as a basic document on children's rights obliges the States of the Party to take all appropriate legislative administrative and other measures for the application of the rights recognised in this Convention. The importance of the European Convention is reflected in the promotion of the rights of children, in their best interest, the granting of procedural rights to children and the relief and exercise of those rights by ensuring that children are informed directly or through other persons or bodies and are allowed to take part in their proceedings before judicial authorities. The European Convention was drawn up on 25 January 1996 in Strasbourg and entered into force on 1 July 2000. The European Convention was signed by 25 countries, excused 26 countries, and ratified by 13 of them, including Austria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Latvia, Poland, Slovenia, Macedonia, Turkey and Ukraine. The Republic of Croatia has been a signator of the European Convention since 25 February 1999. As a signator of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and as a member of the Council of Europe, the Republic of Croatia has already incorporated into its legal system the principles and legal standards which constitute the content of the European Convention. The European Convention refers to family procedures and are conducted before judicial authorities, which are, in the meaning of this Convention, courts or administrative bodies which have equal powers. Following that European Convention, it lays down the procedural rights of children in family and legal proceedings, the role of judicial bodies, and the role of representatives. Under the procedural rights of children, the European Convention requires that children be able to learn about the important circumstances of the case, receive advice and express their views and be informed of the possible consequences of respecting its opinion. Furthermore, the child is given the right to seek the appointment of a special representative in the procedures in which his rights and interests are decided, and there is a conflict of interest between the child and those who have parental responsibility. In the context of the specific powers of the judicial authorities, the European Commission shall require the judicial authority to verify, before making a decision, whether there is sufficient information to make a decision in the best interests of the child, or to obtain, where necessary, to verify that the child has received all relevant information, participates and advises the child in appropriate cases, enables the child to express his opinion and pay due attention to the opinion expressed by the child. Furthermore, the European Convention underlines the duty of the spot-on action of the judicial authorities to avoid unnecessary delays that could harm the child's well-being and be contrary to the best interests of the child. To that end, the judicial authority shall be empowered to take actions on its own initiative if the child’s well-being is seriously at stake. The Fate Body shall also have the authority to appoint a special representative to the child, if the interests of persons who have parental responsibility and the child are contrary. In accordance with the provisions of the European Convention, the representatives of the child should act in an appropriate manner in the interests of the child, in particular the provision of relevant information and explanations to the child, the determination of the child’s opinion and its presentation to the judicial authority. Croatian family legislation is in line with the requirements of the Convention, and implementation of the Convention, the European Convention will represent a way to further improve it, as the Convention establishes a modern and efficient system of child rights. The following legislation does not require amendments and additions to existing regulations to confirm the convention in relation to the Croatian legislation. Basic issues to be settled by this law. The proposal for a law lays down that the Republic of Croatia will make a statement in accordance with Article 1(4) when laying down the ratification document. The European Conventions to determine the categories of family matters to be carried out before the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia, to which the European Convention would apply. The European Convention sets out the obligation for Member States to lay down at least at least three categories of family matters to be carried out before the judicial authorities to which this Convention applies, but it is desirable to determine, or to designate more than three categories of those cases if possible. The provisions of Article 3, as you can see the draft law on the confirmation of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights, are proposed to apply the Convention to five categories of family matters. First, it is a decision-making process for parental care during the divorce of parents. Secondly, it is a parenting process. Third, measures to protect the rights and interests of the child. Fourth, adoption procedure. And fifth, custody procedure for minors. As regards financial resources here, it should be pointed out that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The funds for the implementation of the law will be provided under the regular budget of the central authorities of the state administration responsible for its implementation. The implementation of this law is in part by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of Justice. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45862	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Jeljana Kalash. Here you go, pals. ... Well, he can do it. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] You're here, so you won't lose your right, and Brank's here, so she'll be on behalf of the SDP club. Dear colleague Branko Crlenko. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45863	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the adoption of a final proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a European Convention on the exercise of children's rights. The aim of this law is to confirm the European Convention which complements and discusses ways of exercising the rights of the child established by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The divorce of parents to children is a stressful experience most often accompanied by feelings of sadness, fear, uncertainty, anxiety, helplessness, anger, confusion, guilt, taking responsibility for the conflict of parents and the emergence of a conflict of loyalty. The divorce is, apart from the parents with whom the child will not live, related to a series of changes in the life of a child who makes a request for adjustment in front of a child. The divorce is often preceded by a stressful and emotionally painful experience of parental conflict, often accompanied by the involvement of other children close to adults, grandparents, family friends who may further cause and deepen their feelings of uncertainty as a result of their emotional involvement in the divorce situation, the child loses support and the support of people in whom he finds it most frequently in other life circumstances. Facing and coping with a divorce can make it difficult for children to feel emotionally overwhelmed by their parents, having their own difficult and painful divorce that puts children and their emotional needs entirely in a different way, along with all those mentioned in some families. Given the large number of cases relating to child rights violations during and after the divorce, including the termination of the parent's extramarital community, which are related to the child's right to continuous development of relations with both parents, taking into account the importance of regular meetings and association for the healthy psychophysical development of the child, and in order to obtain a more complete picture of the state of the Ministry of Health and Social Care and Child Protection of the City of Zagreb, they provided information on the manipulation of the child's right to meet and associate with the parents with whom he does not live. In doing so, manipulation involves making it difficult or disabling the quality of this right under various unfounded excuses and influences by the parents with whom the child is being exposed and who are being imposed on him. The parent’s behaviour, if there is no timely intervention of experts, results in the behaviour of a child manifested in unsatisfactoryness and refusal to meet with a parent where the reasons for such reactions do not lie in the direct, experienced experience of having an unquality relationship with a parent but are due to the exposure to negative messages and qualifications of parents with whom the child lives on a parent with whom he does not live. Some time ago, I had a chance to talk to a acquaintance who had passed a divorce catharsis. She said the first few days were literally crazy, that she wouldn't let her kid talk to her father on the phone. That she wouldn't let her baby see her grandmother after her father. After a little stabilization, she gave in to this pressure on the child, but she was always angry when the child returned from his father. In fact, she was mad at her ex-partner, but she took it out on the kid. And when he found a new partner through the kid she tried to get all the details, all about her. The way she cooks, the way she dresses, she makes out, and then she realizes the father of a child does the same thing. As a result of such parent behavior, the most common experience is emotional injury due to unquality marital relationship and its disappointing ending. Unfinished partner relationship of parents, unresolved property-legal relations, disagreements over certain content of parental care resulting in the child being used as a blackmail object and subject of conditioning, which is professionally unacceptable and extremely harmful for the child. Meetings and association of a child with a parent with whom he does not live are of particular importance for maintaining the emotional stability of a child and is a quality relationship that can be achieved through encounters and association with a parent with whom the child is no longer present on a daily basis, a particularly important aspect of child’s psychophysical development. With examples of good practice, welfare centres stress the need for timely intervention with persistent advisory work and additional efforts by professionals to intervene between parents, the commitment to achieving the right of the child to meet and socialise and treat the child's rights as a priority where requests and expectations of parents are rarely unfulfilled. Examples of good practice include the experience of social care in which the method of family mediation is implemented in the process of intervening before the divorce of parents resulting in the suspension of children’s initial manipulation in terms of disabling encounters and association. In the process of advisory work with parents, it is of particular importance to raise awareness and bring the child's need closer to the need for continuous and quality meeting and association with other parents. First of all, it's for the child's well-being. It is especially important to work on awareness of the responsibility of parents in meeting this child’s need as well as parental influence and responsibilities in the child’s psychophysical development process, which, unfortunately, parents rarely forget. In the light of the difficulties faced with the exercise of the right to meet and associate a child with a parent who does not live in welfare centres, the length of the court procedure does not lead to a temporary measure in the divorce proceedings in cases where there is clearly no agreement between parents with whom the child will live and on meetings and association, mild or no sanctions against parents in criminal proceedings to prevent and non-execution of measures to protect a child or a minor, the need for parents to be included in professional treatment with repressive measures. Unfortunately, we do not have enough counselling facilities and schools for parents to direct for professional help, lack of place, and experts conducting family therapy, psychotherapy or psychiatric treatment, and where such forms of assistance exist, there are limited opportunities for parenting to be referred to marriage therapy because of the overload of institutions that provide such a form of assistance, so power is not timely and effective. Better integration and cooperation of all institutions involved in child protection are extremely important, it is necessary to develop the co-operation of social care centres with family centres that are recognised in some areas as a place where families, parents and children can be directed for individual advisory assistance, professional assistance in achieving quality parenting and overcoming crisis family situations. In order to achieve a higher level of child protection in divorce procedures and parental care decisions, the need for more effective judicial procedures with additional sensitisation and education of judges from the field of psychosocial aspects of divorce should be pointed out and the specificities of psychophysical development of the child as well as their reactions to the extremely stressful situation of divorce of parents. This law confirms the European Convention in order to make its provisions in accordance with Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In the context of the procedural rights of children, the European Convention requires that the child be able to learn about the relevant circumstances of the case, receive advice and express his opinion and be informed of the possible consequences of respecting his opinion. Furthermore, the child is given the right to seek the appointment of a special representative in the procedures in which his rights and interests are decided, and there is a conflict of interest between the child and those who have parental responsibility. The European Convention allows Member States to consider and grant additional procedural rights to children, for example the right to select an appropriate person to help the child express his opinion, the right to a separate representative in appropriate cases and lawyers, and the right to appoint his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her representative. It is, in fact, a convention that is important for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia regarding the protection of the rights and interests of the child. And finally, once again, I stress the SDP club supports the adoption of this law, hoping that the violation of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia will be reduced to the least possible measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45864	Thank you very much. My colleague Željana is ready, please welcome to the HDZ Representatives Club Zeljana Kalaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45865	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I thank you for letting me speak, given that I've had little technical problems with my computer, but here. Therefore, the respected before us today is in the urgent process of the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights, so with the Final Proposal of the Law. The European Convention applies to family procedures relating to children, which are conducted in front of judicial authorities or more precisely, determines the procedural rights of children in family legal proceedings, the role of judicial bodies, and the role of representatives. Very comprehensively, all the exhibitions had a colleague on behalf of the SDP club and the secretary of state himself as a proposer. And I'll just mention some basic facts. Before I speak at all about the Convention, I will say that I am sure that we are all familiar with the fact that Croatia has also accepted the recommendations and opinions of the Council of Europe on the protection of children as a member of the Council of Europe. It is also actively involved in the work of the Committees and Working Groups and the Council of Europe. As a signator of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is one of the prominent countries dedicated to providing protection to fundamental human rights and children's freedoms. On behalf of the HDZ representative club, I can say that I believe that the Croatian Government is constantly working to improve the organisation and activities of state institutions and judicial authorities, and by paying particular attention to professional training, it seeks to constantly improve the entire system in order to have legal protection available to all, especially to children and young people. I also believe that as a candidate for full membership in the European Union, the Republic of Croatia recognises the importance of justice for children. In this regard, it has long been committed to improving the protection of children in criminal proceedings, in accordance with the basic principles of the Convention. I also think that here it is necessary to highlight and very important the role of the Ombudsman for children as an independent and autonomous body with the primary task, to protect, monitor and, of course, promote the protection of children's rights under the Constitution, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and other international agreements and acts. If we bear in mind that effective protection of children and young people is also an imperative for the sustainable development of modern society and for the future, we must not take stock of efforts to develop and improve standards and instruments for achieving and protecting. But so much for me on this legislative matter, but it is important to see how Croatian practice and everyday life are. I will note first that this Convention applies to five categories of family matters: in the decision-making process during the divorce of parents, 2 in parental care procedures, 3 in the protection of personal rights and the interests of the child, 4 in adoption procedures and 5 in the custody proceedings for minors. Dear colleagues, allow me, in my next debate on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives, to specifically refer to one of the categories of family matters that I consider to be more room for improving the legislation or even the conduct of the state in this matter, and I think that this House is exactly the place to talk about it. We agreed on this, of course, on the parent committee for the family, and this is about the adoption process. Namely, if someone decides to adopt a child, they must meet all legal and material criteria, prove that he has qualities and qualities that will make him a good parent, collect documentation, get a positive opinion of the welfare center and, of course, arm himself with patience. Why? Because in Croatia, with every effort to adopt a child, several years are waiting. With all the effort. What are the reasons for that? Given the number of adoption applications and the number of children in the homes, it is clear that potential adoptors will have to wait. It is important to say that despite the 6 times as much interest in Croatia, between 120 and 150 children are adopted annually. In children’s homes, about a thousand and 500 children are constantly cared for and only two hundred under the age of seven. And just for those kids, for children of your age, it's the most important interest of adoptors. For example, here is an example from Zagreb. About 100 children are admitted and fired in Nazor's home annually, but not all go to adoption. About 30% of children return to their biological parents, about 40% go for adoption. Or, for example, in 2007, I found this information because of the reduced number of children in the home, only 25 children were adopted, 35 in 2006, and 49 children were adopted in 2005. When it comes to adoption and good work, thanks to the media for which they should be especially grateful lately, there has been some accelerated dynamics of adoption. I would also like to say that there has also been important support from the Ministry of the Family and then vice-presidents of the Government and the Minister of the Family and today's Prime Minister for amending a series of legal provisions that are aimed at the welfare of children to speed up the adoption process. It is not rare for biological parents to visit a completely uninterested child solely because of formalities and thus prevent adoption. That's what distinguished colleagues and colleagues do next. Biological parents can contact a child once every three months to satisfy the legal form but also confuse the court and, of course, do harm to their child. I note, once every three months. That is why we have all agreed on the committee together with the legislator of this law that it should be necessary to amend the laws in a way to see if they are doing so in the interests of the child or with the sole intention to defuse the work of a court that cannot, in that case, begin the adoption procedure. It's not easy to assess, which means the law isn't even finished. However, the profession agrees that parents who visit their children once every three months simply to prevent the adoption of their own child from taking parental care away for a simple reason that their children are usually left at home for a long time because of their parental irresponsibility. You'll agree with me when I say that one visit in three months shouldn't be the only parameter to decide whether to take away a parent's right. Instead, it is necessary to monitor the dynamic and quality of the relationship between parents and children themselves, as well as the emotional connection and various other factors. Uncertainty of legal provisions and the very often slowness of centres and courts condemn children to stay in a facility. The Croatian average is 4 years old. There is an institution where children spend up to 7, 8 years, sometimes a whole childhood but a children's home can't be a substitute for family. Speaking on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I must point out that I am not personally in favour of destroying the family, but indeed those children who are hostages to their own parental abuses of their rights, so it is also based on an understated law that needs to be saved and given a warm family home because it is an interest to adopt how numbers say great. In our country, adoption of children under three years of age is the greatest occupation. It, at the age of seven, is already considered "old" and is largely not found by adoptors. The number of adoptions of children with disabilities in psycho-physical development and chronic illnesses is negligible because in Croatia almost seems to have no interest in these children but they are very often adopted by foreigners. Unfortunately, the vast majority of them settle in specialized institutions and it becomes their destiny. According to the last amendments to the Family Law, the adoption limit has been abolished, and we all know that the intention was to end the paradoxical situation in which a large number of potential adoptors never await adoption even though homes for unsupervised children are full. So far, the legal provision has been very cruel. The adoptors could be between 21 and 35 years of age and only extremely could the adoptor be allowed to be over 45 years of age. It wasn't quite logical because people who couldn't be biological parents until at least 40 try to become medically. That's why only 25% of the adoptors were under 35 years old. So far, the demands of potential adoptors aged 30 and younger have been extremely rare. Finally, the HDZ Club will support this proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights. I sincerely hope so, and this has already been confirmed by the officials of the Ministry of the Family that the legislation relating to adoption procedures and all other family items will soon be found on the assembly benches in some changed form in order to avoid children in Croatia who do not have adequate parental care losing their fate in the grips of bureaucracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45866	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club. A respected colleague of Danica Hurs's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45867	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia puts in place the protection of motherhood, children and youth by giving particular care to minors without parents and children who are not cared for by parents. This law confirms the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights from the 96th year signed by the Republic of Croatia in 99th year. The European Convention complements the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in a way that is promoted in their best interest by granting procedural rights to children and facilitating the exercise of those rights. Children shall be provided directly or through other persons or bodies to be informed and allowed to participate in procedures concerning them before the judicial authorities. The basic issues to be addressed by the proposal for this law include therefore the judicial authorities and their roles and their roles. The proposal for this law sets out five categories of family matters to be implemented before the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia and to which the European Convention would apply. Here, my predecessor listed them all nicely. I also find them extremely important, so let us once again say which areas will be reported in a statement on the ratification of the Republic of Croatia. So the first area is the decision-making process for parental care during the divorce of parents. The second area is about the process of parental care. The third area which speaks of measures for the protection of personal rights and the interests of the child. The fourth area is adoption procedure. And the fifth area is a custody procedure for minors. This bill of law in man creates different feelings and questions. The first feeling and knowledge that it is necessary and good that the state adopts a law that will protect the rights and lives of children, especially those without parents or without their proper care. On the other hand, the question arises as to what we have done as a community with our conduct and life that more and more often children must protect laws like this. I think that we need to deal with the most urgent causes that bring children into the status of protected persons, and then put everything in order to prevent such status from being avoided or reduced to as little as possible. I know I won't say anything new and unknown when I say that family is the most important and basic environment in which new members of our community grow and form. What kind of family does the Republic of Croatia have today? Whether that family can, and should want to create a community of happy and contented people. We get answers daily from our lives and environments, but also from statistics that talk about the growing number of divorced marriages, the growing number of domestic violence, the growing number of violence among children, the growing dissatisfaction and uncertainty among the large numbers of people around us. What's the reason? Of course, the community of people whose growing commitment to materially or consumerism, as someone called it, on the one hand, and the insatiable hunger for profit on the other hand, leading to the collapse of fundamental values in society as well as in the family. Can the family in our country work in quality today? Allow one icon that we all know from personal or from the experience of close friends and acquaintances. Today we say that happiness is if spouses have jobs and that's really because work and pay for work is a category of which there is no opposition. Today, most of the employees who, of course, belong to their parents according to their work obligations are returning to their dormitory because in my opinion, many have lost their homes in the meantime. Exhausted and burdened with problems and the size of work very often without defined working hours with perhaps a questionable payout of personal income, and with the imposed social trends of parents in kindergartens or schools await their children. Children who also need to respond to the demanding tasks of education or to numerous sports and other activities are seeking at that time, knowledge, patience, and love of their parents because they have the right to do so without that sport. Can a parent, along with the above, follow and raise a child in a quality way? It's getting harder and more often resorting to the alternative. The substitute for parental care, love and time cannot be, and it is often regrettable that neither the Internet nor the TV program nor the whole day stay at school. A parent’s conscience can in no way eliminate or reduce the purchase and accumulation of material goods. Unfortunately, we are witnessing an increasing dependence on third jeans, five shoes, of course in brands, which introduces many families into debt slavery or family bankruptcy. Stress, negative emotions can't result in anything good. The family has no alternative, and the health of the family determines all of us with our health and spirit and body. First of all, the health of a spirit that is not at an envious level, resulting in a growing general alienation in society, makes people increasingly indifferent to their family, friends, partners, children, the environment. Family estrangements in the first round are paid by the weakest, children, and then, of course, the parents come safely, and ultimately society as a whole. It therefore needs to be invested in a quality prevention which will result in a growing number of users of this law whose proposal will be supported by representatives and representatives of the HNS Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45868	Thank you very much, colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Stjepan Kundić, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45869	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be back at the beginning of Mr. Secretary's presentation, and I'll renew what this law actually makes, so I'll go like this. So on January 25, 1996, the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights entered into force on 1 July 2000 was drawn up in Strasbourg. The European Convention was signed by 26 countries and ratified by thirteen. The Republic of Croatia signed the European Convention on 8 March 1999. And we always set ourselves up when some law is passed, which is the purpose of this law. The aim of this law is to confirm the European Convention, which complements and discusses ways of exercising the right of the child established by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and in particular in what situations. By promoting the rights of children in their best interests, by granting procedural rights to children, by facilitating the exercise of these rights by ensuring that children are informed directly or through other persons or bodies and are allowed to take part in their proceedings before judicial authorities. I must also stress that this law confirms the European Convention in order to make its provisions in accordance with Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal order of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the European Convention requires that a child be given more than one item in certain situations. First, to find out the important circumstances of the case, to get advice, to express his opinion and to be informed of the possible consequences of respecting his opinion. Furthermore, the child is given the right to seek the appointment of a special representative in the procedures in which his rights and interests are decided, and there is a conflict of interest between the child and those who have parental responsibility. The European Convention further allows Member States to consider and grant additional procedural rights to children, e.g. the right to select an appropriate person to help the child express his opinion, the right to a separate representative, in the appropriate cases of a lawyer and the right to appoint a child only as his representative. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The final proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights is proposed to apply the Convention to five categories of family matters. The first category is the procedure, in the decision-making process of parental care during the divorce of parents. What's this about? Namely, here in the litigation process, questions such as how a parent will live with his or her own underage or adopted child, who is given parental care after his or her adulthood, then on parental care, and on how to maintain the encounter and association of a child with parents, i.e. a stepmother or a stepfather. The second procedure is the process of achieving parental care, and concerns extra-parisal proceedings relating to the exercise of the right of the child and parental care in the jurisdiction of the court. For example, let’s say making a decision with which a parent will live, and a way of maintaining a child’s meeting and association when parents do not live in the family community. Furthermore, restrictions or bans on the encounter and association of a child with a parent and the abolition of such a decision. The identification of the person whose jurisdiction the meetings will take place, the individual duties of a separate parent as part of parental care, etc. The measures for the protection of the rights and interests of the child relate to measures in the jurisdiction of the Centre for Social Care with the role of warning of errors and failures in the care of child rearing and supervision of parental care. Then, measures in the jurisdiction of the court, disposing of the right of the parent to live with his child and to raise him, by trusting the child in the institution of social care, as well as the deprivement of parental care. The adoption process applies, however, to the decisions of the Centre for Social Care, which is based on adoption. The custody procedure for minors refers to decisions of the Centre for Social Care on putting a minor under the care and trust of a minor to the care and care of a guardian, to another person, to a foster family, to a home for children or to a legal person who carries out the activities of social care. And in the end, let me put it this way. If we want the family to function by giving birth to healthy, balanced, for the life of qualified offspring and if we want to act preventively in terms of prevention of mental illness, mental disorders, addiction and depression, if we want to prevent the hotspots of social evil, the hotspots that produce individual psychopathology and social pathology. If we really want to improve the quality of life in all families, then continuing to think in the spirit of the ecological system and human development is important to set up an appropriate, quality macro system of preventive interventions that will be designed and implemented to reach every family at the level of its needs and risks. Of course I'll support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45870	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague colleague Davorko Vidovic also applied for the debate. Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45871	The colleagues and colleagues of the reasons set out in the proposal for this law shall be shown as follows. This Convention, i.e. this Convention Confirmation Act, will not produce in a legal sense any effect in terms of the adoption or obligation to adopt new regulations, laws, regulations, recommendations, etc. So, there's no intended cost in this law. There are no new institutions in this law. It seems, in fact, from the reasons that we have received from the promoter that it is simply a confirmation that what is required by this Convention is that it is actually solved in the Republic of Croatia in a good, satisfactory way. But I do have something that should certainly be pointed out and what is good to bear in mind when it comes to human children’s rights, whenever it comes to what we should have in mind. First, the content of this Convention shows that it is required and required by national legislation as accurately as possible to regulate institutes in national laws concerning five particularly sensitive and important areas which are actually the source of perhaps the most common human rights violations. This is the decision-making process of parental care during the divorce of parents, a procedure of unusual importance in a country that as a result of most other Western European societies and countries has a very high percentage of marriages and marriages, i.e. families in which children are directly or more affected in one way or another. There is also a requirement for precise regulation of the parental care process. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, It refers to an area that is being dealt with within or in the jurisdiction of the social care centre. Therefore, the withdrawal of the right to parental care or the right to raise, the child is entrusted to the institution, etc. etc. The fourth is a adoption procedure that was referred to by more than one colleague, Kalash. And fifth, custody procedure for minors. What it puts before us as a country signatories of the Convention on the exercise of children's rights and the signatories of all international agreements and conventions that have been passed on to children's rights in recent decades. I personally attended 7 years ago the World Summit on the Rights of Children in New York where it actually surfaced all the forces of child rights violations whether it is therefore about protecting children's rights, whether it is about social, economic or some of the other rights of these most unprotected residents in all the countries of the world. Of course, there are different threats to these rights in different countries, but they are always equally devastating because they are equally sensitive parts of human communities because children are actually the most unprotected human beings. This Convention obliges us to deal with ourselves if you want with two large taboos that are components if you want our cultures or our civilizations. One of these taboos is hidden in the fact that somewhere almost unequivocal is the notion of Christian, Catholic concept of family as the central unit of society, that it is the rightful and protective of all members of that society and children. And that if you let a traditional family actually work it's the best example and best protection of children. This idealized picture is largely opposed to numbers, because the modern family in an industrial or post-industrial age is significantly different from the traditional family that it often predominates when talking about family as a non-conflict community that provides safety for its members. The report by the Ombudsman for children, so the institution that has absolutely made a turning point in protecting the rights of children in this country and the institution that I am particularly proud of, which we have founded and without which we would not even know today to what extent children's rights are being violated, shows that children are in fact the most dangerous place for their own family. That family is more dangerous than the road, the street, the school or any other place. In these five areas covered by this convention, it suggests that dysfunctional families, families in which violence occurs in this and that form are most directly endangered in fact, endangering children themselves. About 17,000 reported forms of domestic violence were recorded in Croatia in 2008. Reported. We can rightly assume that it's just the tip of the ice dream and that it's incomparably more in the family, because it's not being reported. And I'm going back to the taboo. That taboo says it was acceptable to talk to everyone recently and publicly about the beating coming out of heaven and it was normal, even I remember it, and I'm not too old a man, I remember that part of the civilization legacy is either that men sit at tables and women and children in prison. For the first time, this Convention speaks of the child’s right of opinion and of the child’s right to express his opinion especially when it comes to his rights or his interest. In other words, counterpart Kalash, as a representative of the ruling party, warned that our legislation on full protection has not done all its work. That's what the counselor's kids are talking about. So we must not only conclude that we have complied with European laws and that we have brought ourselves into line with the intensities of this Convention, but we must accept on the contrary the fact that our and the legislation, and even more our practice is insufficient when it comes to the protection of children's rights. So, two facts or two of the fog that were covering up actually the problem of this convention is being cleared up. Therefore, this Convention should be accepted not only as formal confirmation, but it should be accepted even more as an obligation for our legislation, and even more our practice, our institutions to comply with its requirements, with the norms, with the intensities and recommendations that are clearly given here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45872	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the allegations, an esteemed colleague of Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45873	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I would only correct the allegations of the arrested representative Vidovic, who said that as a representative of the ruling party, I highlighted a number of irregularities that we have in the law, or indeterminateness. But I also pointed out the fact that I am not reading now, because I certainly won't have enough time within this institution to correct the incorrect allegations, how many new legal provisions have been introduced, but also the fact that we are on the committee alone together with the representative of the Ministry of the Family, who is as the home body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia responsible for the adoption of family laws, so I said that he would already make some decisions, or is preparing an amendment to the legislative legislation that applies to family laws, namely the very case of adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45874	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate, dear colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45875	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The implementing law for this convention in Croatia is Family Law. I believe that following the ratification of this Convention, it is the ministry's obligation to move as quickly as possible to the Government, and the Government proposes to amend the parts of the Family Law which, by my court, deny the child's right to have a father, who is truly a biological father. And I'm going to illustrate that on two examples. First, if by any chance Mary Jesus had given birth to Croatia, she would have had serious problems because the Center for Social Care would force her to enter the father’s name, or to give her father’s name. I think it's an article in 56, but I'm not sure where it says that a woman after childbirth, if she hasn't given her father's name in the hospital, she'll be called by written invitation to the Social Care Center to give her father's name. The example I'm telling you about, after three months of driving her crazy, the woman decided to find a acquaintance who agreed to sign him up as his father's name, so that the state would stop harassing her by demanding her father's name. And so they did. Now I'm asking what's the state's interest in having a woman who's not married, who doesn't live in an out-of-marriage community, and we're making her say who's the father if she won't say it, or maybe she doesn't know it, anyway? What's the child's interest in making a mother behave like that? The ones that were tougher, more persistent and after six months. They refused even to respond more to the call of the Centre for Social Care and the section father remained empty or wrote unknown. Is such behaviour, such a provision of the law, in accordance with this Convention? Second, when the family they worship is protected by family law, and in this first case there is no family, it does not exist and the fact that a child is born will not create a family. The family falls apart, the partners split up, split up property without fighting, physical abuse, and for 2 or 3 years they no longer live together. After that, the law provides for divorce proceedings before the court, but a woman happens to have a child at the time. By the letter of our family law as the father of that child, a formal mate of the mother must be entered. A marriage mate, a formal mate of that mother's, must be registered. The biological father doesn't challenge paternity, he says, "Yes, I'm a real father." Mother says, "Yes, he's a father."and a formal spouse says, "I can't theoretically be a father because we haven't lived together for three years." No, that's not enough because the Croatian state has decided that these 3 people are insufficiently able to recognise the child's interest, but they say this way: "If you want the real father to be registered, then the mother has to start a paternity dispute procedure with the formal spouse and only after the court's final decision will we allow you to sign up as the father of the child's birth father." Such a provision exists only in one more law, and it is called the Koran. Even though our law provides that if a woman gives birth to a child within 300 days of the marriage’s final divorce, after the divorce, she will again sign up as a father to her ex - husband, a spouse, not a biological father, even a new spouse, but an ex. The Koran does not say 300 days, but the number of monthly washing as a limit or an obstacle has been indicated. And what if when a woman gives birth to that child with another partner, a formal spouse dies and the judge can't listen to him? Then the judge said to his wife, "You know what, ma'am? Your formal spouse is dead, I can't listen to him. You'll pay 8 and a half thousand kuna well to conduct a DNA analysis and make sure he's not the father of the child you gave birth to if you want the biological father to sign up as a father." So there's no dispute. I repeat, the mother who gave birth to the child says who the father is, this man admits paternity because they live in an out-of-marriage community, a formal marriage mate says, "I'm not a father, because I haven't even seen her in 3 years, and the Internet can't make paternity yet."and no public record, no correction of the Social Care Centre recognises but must be a court case. It's in God's interest to protect a family that no longer exists. She fell apart, unfortunately, and two new families are being created. To make that mother with the baby after three months. She wanted to take her passport and go to Europe with her child must have the father's consent. It's a formal mate who's been living in China for 3 years, for example. And he works in China. He must go from China to Beijing to our embassy, if he finds someone, verify the power of attorney, send them to Zagreb so that the Croatian state would then be so kind to the mother and child and allow the child to receive a passport and travel freely. And the biological father is here, and he would follow his partner and his child into Europe. No, it can't be because we've told the family law that it is understood that the father is the one who was married not only during the marriage but also 300 days after the divorce. It's a 19th century conservative approach that doesn't know and admits life. I note the provisions in the law that exist are good and must remain when disputes arise. When there's no agreement. However, the law must also provide for a possibility when fatherhood or motherhood is not at issue. And when 3 persons declare and confess the same, the Croatian state stood up against one and the other family in the formation and child by imposing a solution they would enroll as a father. I will propose soon to amend that part of the law and by the reaction of the Secretary of State I see that this with disgust will be rejected. Now you've heard three true examples. These women are alive and well. 2 are from Zagreb, one from the northern part of Croatia. ... He's not a colleague, he's not. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] If you continue to think that such provisions in the family law must remain and that they are for the purpose of protecting the child’s interests, if you consider this to be a protection of the child’s interests, then you do not have or is some other problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45876	Thank you very much. Here, this was comprehensive. From holy family to all. After the debate, we have one replica registered, distinguished colleagues Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45877	Well, I could agree with my colleague on abstention in the Family Law that norms are still very discriminatory since the vast majority and most often fathers don't pay restraint for their children. However, these provisions in the Family Law have almost always been, in some sense and have been promoted, in family laws or somewhere called the Law on Marriage, adult relations and children, so once upon a time ours has been called in all countries, in the Anglo-Saxon Law in continental Europe, therefore there is a ruling everywhere that the husband is the father of a child. Can you imagine the opposite situation, that every time people who were married and husband had to leave to confirm that they were eating his child? The truth is that life is far richer than the law itself, so it has extramarital children. But please let them at least bear such responsibility for their behavior, because we also have to teach our children to be responsible adults later on so that a child can be born from sexual intercourse. Well, then, if it's the one who's married, the one who's married is doing it, they're probably not so lazy as to go into a special procedure. So, for those and those and such persons, we would have to change the basic judgment that the husband is the father of a child. Well, please, there's no such thing in Sweden, and you don't have it in Finland either. And this legal assumption that the child who was born after marriage 300 is also a favorite child because society and the state want the child to have a father. And that is why there is a family law if it is not such a possibility that all those who consider themselves not to be fathers, or mothers of certain children, can, within a certain period and within certain deadlines, refut motherhood, or paternity. There's so much to do with the truth and the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45878	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45879	Thank you very much. As much as that often happens to be a colleague, Ingrid doesn't listen very carefully, so then he replicates the whole wrong thing. I was very clear, the provision that exists must remain but must be complemented. And it is not true that other countries' legislation does not know the situation and the possibilities and deviations from the general definition that the husband is necessarily a father and foresees the possibility if all three partners, or three persons, agree to declare that the state respects it without a judicial procedure. In Sweden, they are not going to court to solve this problem, but to the authority of social services. And I was just talking about the social service having to accept that statement by all three partners as a fact, not a trial. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And the cases I've been making are not about the child restraint dispute or the alimony rejection, but only about who the father is. We differ in what authority will record the agreement of the father of the biological father and mother. It's just a court of law with us. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45880	Thank you. A distinguished colleague colleague, Susana Bilic Vardic, also applied for the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45881	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin by saying that I fully support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights with the Final Proposal of the Law, which the Croatian Government delivered to us for discussion and adoption. And now, after these discussions, I would quote, i.e. to my colleague Vidovic, that the adoption of this Convention will not produce the legal effect does not require financial resources, but I would supplement it. The adoption of this Convention will again put into focus the question of respect for children's rights, both globally and especially by those quoted by my colleague Vidovic, "especially in the difficult and sensitive areas which the Republic of Croatia has designated as categories of family matters to which the provisions of this Convention will apply, and which is evident from the discussions of colleagues and colleagues of whom some are special". What I wanted to say, and if I hadn't heard too much here, even opinions and differed, because first of all I would point out and stress that the Republic of Croatia has a good legislative framework for effective legal protection of children, because it is a signator or party to a series of important international agreements in the field of protection of children and children's rights, and the same applies to national legislation, in particular, to the Family Law, the Law on Social Care, and in line with such laws, the Law on Advocates for Children of 2003 as well as to the establishment of the Office of Advocates for Children, which has been in effect for the 7th year in our country. In addition to the claim made, the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights was drawn up in Strasbourg on 25 January 1996, and the Republic of Croatia signed it on 8 March 1999. The convention came into force on 1 July 2000, and so far it has been signed by 26 countries and ratified 13. This Convention shall also be based on Article 4 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child of 1989, whose party is the basis of both the Sucession and the Republic of Croatia, which has established that the States Parties will take all appropriate legislative, administrative and other measures for the application of the rights recognised in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Since this law was included in the December session agenda, it is not easy to look at when the government sent the law to the Parliament. And if we take a closer look, it was November 21st 2009, so all day after the International Day of the Child on November 20th, in which we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Declaration on the Rights of the Child and the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I therefore congratulate the Croatian Government for helping it improve the quality of children's rights in our country by sending this law. The subject matter of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights has been heard in the best interests of children to promote their rights, grant them procedural rights and facilitate their exercise in such a way as to ensure that children themselves or through other persons or bodies are informed and that they are allowed to participate in the proceedings before judicial bodies concerned, means courts or administrative bodies having equal powers, and relate to family legal procedures, especially those relating to the achievement of parental responsibility, such as the issue of residence and visitation of children. The Convention has been established, and I will repeat that each country, by a special declaration addressed to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, should designate at least three categories of family matters to be conducted before the judicial authorities to which this Convention will apply. The Republic of Croatia has established five categories of family matters to which this Convention will apply immediately in the beginning of this Convention. As colleagues and colleagues in their discussions touched on areas such as the category of custody procedures for minors as well as the adoption process as to how some data were presented, I would supplement this data from the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which said that at the end of 2006, in the state homes of social care for children without adequate parental care was placed 989 children while there were 827 children in the same region in late 2008. At the end of 2006, there were a thousand 337 foster families in the Republic of Croatia for the accommodation of children while there are now a thousand 354. However, statistics point to a downward trend in child accommodation without adequate parental care in foster families. So in 2006, there were 2 thousand 153 children in foster homes, 2007. 2 thousand 80 while in 2008 a number of 1 000 940 children was recorded. And she told counterpart Kalash that based on the provisions of the existing law, it is very difficult to come or find it difficult to adopt children, so she said that the average year is between 120 and 150. According to this latest data, I'd like it to be 150, but according to this information that I have since 2006, 137 children were adopted, 2007. 120 children and in 2008 121 children. If these days we are able to read in all newspapers and media about the great interest of Croatian families to adopt children who have remained orphans in this great tragedy in Haiti, then they also write provocatively that it is easier to adopt a child outside than a child in Croatia, it is clear that they have matured the conditions for the adoption of legislation to work and change. This is confirmed by what counterpart Kalash said on the parent board of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and the representatives of the Government that after the comprehensive footage of the situation, conducted public debates, we will probably have amendments to the laws relating to adoption by the end of the year to allow the largest number of families to exist, to become parents but also to a large number of children without adequate parental care to get a family. Finally, I will repeat once again that Croatia consistently respects the provisions and declarations and the UN Children's Rights Convention, which is the most important international document for the protection and legal position of children. Through national legislation and other regulations, the Republic of Croatia has made a full contribution to promoting and protecting children's rights. This will certainly contribute to the final proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights by adopting the full application of this Convention to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. From all these things, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45882	Thank you very much. The debate was further reported by distinguished counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45883	Thank you very much. It is quite clear, although not from individual debates, which is quite normal because as soon as questions arise that are related to children’s rights, then many associations and many injustices arise, given the violation of children’s rights, perhaps much greater than they were in view of the great dangers that only the child is exposed to. In fact, it is quite clear, and it is in the light of this legislative proposal that procedural rights are being discussed by this Convention or by law which will adopt the Convention and those Conventions on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations. Therefore, it is perfectly clear that this United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child itself and through individual internal legislation of the Member States did not receive such results. Therefore, there was also a need for such a convention that essentially wants to resolve, specify and oblige Member States to choose in their internal legislation to ensure that procedural rights can be exercised. I can immediately say by having a review of the kind in our legislation that protects children. I can say that many rights and many procedural rights we have in our legislation. Some of the rights are not or are insufficient, and it will be necessary to amend this Law confirming the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights after the signing or entry into force of this Act. However, the fact is that children’s rights are difficult to achieve. In our society, children's rights, women's rights, minority rights, workers' rights are difficult to achieve. These are the rights of the weakest, and that is why these rights are weakly realized. We are very happy and without any problems, and unanimously I am 100% convinced because we have adopted such and similar conventions unanimously. And there is no dispute when such laws are passed or confirmed by such and similar conventions. However, there are many problems in practice. Why is that? Are we going to go from that very setting of how poor and these weak are having trouble exercising their rights? Basically, that's how it is, and the state needs to see it in the beginning that it is. And what to do to strengthen these rights, in order to strengthen the possibility of achieving those rights at all, to strengthen you and those in this case and children so that they can exercise their rights. When there's a violation of their rights then it's too late to empower them in front of institutions when those little ones are in conflict with large institutional systems were judicial, it was administrative to teach them about our rights somewhere. It's too late then. Of course, you should do it. Then they should be reminded but this is what we need and what many ministers are, now they are gone but in the government since 2004, they have promised to achieve this long-awaited as a special subject in schools learning for democracy, learning for law. That's what many countries have. After all, we train a man as a responsible being from the earliest youth, as a man who has his rights but therefore has his duties. We have seen that many adults, so when they find themselves in high positions of duty at all, do not understand and really need to believe them, it does not esculate them, because they have abandoned their conscience, their responsibility. But they're not even the only ones to blame, society is simply such that it encourages irresponsibility, but it's not even brave people to exercise their rights either. Even those people who are persistent in their rights, adults, I'm not talking about children, are causing some kind of entanglement from the environment itself, so what does he need, so what with the horns is being stabbed. Therefore, it does not enjoy the trust of the nearest environment, the nearest relatives, let alone the surroundings. It's a worrying condition. So, basically what we need after confirming this convention, i.e. We need laws to be introduced, that's what they say every time, but it shouldn't be a teaching class that might be evaluated, that we're always waiting for the beginning of the next school year. We urgently need the education of the youngest students and even those children in kindergarten, learning about democracy, learning about rights and learning about how to handle conflict situations through nonviolent means, which every day is full of conflict, so how to avoid attacks, destruction, violence. I think this issue is also the most important issue for the government, for the government to do something to protect young people from the action and from the promotion of violence. Why don't we ban the movies that in one minute there's a hundred dead? Well, we have absurd situations, forbidden children to watch until they're 18 if they see a naked butt, but murder can be countless. So the more scrupulous, the more dangerous? What kind of hypocritical society are we? So it is essential to protect children from violence, first from the influence of visual violence, then to recognize violence and to oppose it in a different way. We seriously need to talk about this, because television, movies, advertising that encourages, directly encourage violence and are considered games, are considered even something that is good for children's entertainment. Or even if it is criticized, nothing seems to be able to prevent it. When speaking here about the obligations of the Member States on the rights of the child before the judicial authority, it should be taken care of, in particular, when the child is a victim. We still have, therefore, that provision remains in the Youth Act and in the courts for youth, that such procedures are of an urgent nature. However, the fact remains that because of the different situations, they are often not justified because the judge should, in any case, take into account, above all, the primary interest of the child that such procedures end as quickly as possible, so that as quickly as possible, because it is not precise here which these are judgments, means all judicial proceedings. Those procedures that are conducted for alimony, for child restraint, are still infinitely long. Sometimes the courts aren't guilty because they're asking, they have to get some information from the administration, and then they're having trouble getting data the same way as the natural person because others don't matter anymore. Once upon a time, when the court sought something or the police or the state's attorney's office, all the other bodies were spotlessly leaving each and every other's regular work and satisfying the pleas of the judicial authorities, today no longer. Therefore, the judicial authority does not take much account of the administration itself, and that is not good, however, questions remain, and this remains therefore not only procedural but also substantive, so that we can imagine ourselves here. Many colleagues have talked about the relationship between parents and children, and no one is talking about the relationship between underage parents and their children. Well, now we don't just have underage pregnancies but also children. Any society would simply put such a society on its feet, it would be an alarm. However, we believe that it happened to someone there, and it is again the fault of the good part of the government and the resolute ministry that has promised and that justice here cannot reconcile the two associations. Well, we don't care about associations here, kids have to have sex education. What's he going to call himself, from which aspect he's approached, it's irrelevant. The most important thing they'll learn here, and what one relationship will have, first of all, is the relationship one that must be responsible, and that's what everyone's saying. And if it still has other connotations it doesn't matter, it's important that we prepare the children. So these are all the problems we face unfortunately. So I also support the adoption of this law, but unfortunately the more we talk about these rights, the rights of children, but also the rights of many others, in general, the harder these rights are achieved and the more often they are violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45884	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague colleague, Sunchana Glavak, came forward for discussion. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45885	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I would like to tell my colleague Anticevic-Marinović that it can't be God's government's fault if minors have a child, but I agree with you in the part of what you were talking about. And I'm sorry that there are no colleagues of Lesar, and in his very vivid debate, it seemed to me like he was at moments and personally interested in establishing paternity, so here. But let us go back to what we have actually been talking about for the last hour and a half, which is that our Constitution has actually prescribed the duty of the state to protect motherhood, children, and youth and to create conditions for social, cultural, educational, and material development to promote the exercise of rights, above all to a worthy life. Personal care is devoted to minors without parents, as well as to children their parents do not care about or care for to a sufficient extent. The basic document on children's rights, that is to say, is the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and all States Parties are obliged to take all legislative, administrative and other measures in order to revive the rights set out in the Convention. The same is the case with countries that encourage the conclusion of international contracts, all in order to achieve children's rights. In early '99. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also made a decision to initiate the procedure for the signing of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights, and on 8 March '99. year, then, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for European Integration, signed the same convention. The Convention allows a child to express his own opinion in all matters concerning him and the obligation to respect the child’s opinion in accordance with his age and of course in accordance with his maturity. This means hearing in any administrative and judicial procedure directly or through an intermediary. The main goal is to promote children's rights in their best interests. As signatories to the Convention and members of the Council of Europe, Croatia has already incorporated into the legal system principles and legal standards which constitute the content of the Convention on Children's Rights. In this regard, I only remind myself that the institution of the Ombudsman for children has been established with the task of promoting and achieving children's rights. Further powers are to propose and give an opinion on draft laws for the exercise of children's rights, to give information to the media, to the public, to persons and bodies. So, all those who deal with children's questions. In the context of procedural rights, the family legal procedures of the Convention require the child to know also all the important circumstances and to give his opinion. The child is also entitled to seek a special representative when in conflict with the interests of the child and persons who have parental responsibility. In the context of the special powers of the judicial bodies, the Convention requires the judicial authority to verify before making a decision whether it has all the information in order to make the decision in the best interests of the child. He must know, therefore, whether the child has received all the information, should be consulted and given due attention to his opinion. It is also important to have a protracted action because of the delay, and we have heard it already today only can harm the child’s best interests so that it can take actions on its own initiative if the child’s well-being is compromised. The Convention requires Member States to determine at least three categories of family matters to which they will apply, and more is desirable, and in this respect, the Republic of Croatia proposes five categories to this law. I'm not going to mention them specifically. She talked about it already and colleague Bilić Vardić and colleague Željana Kalaš, so I think we have already apostrophe. Therefore, it is a convention of importance for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the protection of children's rights, and it concerns procedures in the jurisdiction of judicial and administrative authorities and provides for their responsibilities. I will, of course, be happy to support the adoption of the final text of this law, by the fact that just a few days ago here, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Alliance of the "Our Children of Croatia" held a joint session of children's forums from cities, municipalities, representatives of the Croatian Parliament and other guests to whom all the problems of our children were clearly heard. And finally, I agree with my colleague Kalash in a section where she specifically referred to the adoption of children, which is what we heard from the secretary of state. But what's most important is I think that if we can make someone's fate happier it's precious, because actually every fate is one small life and I think everyone actually deserves the right to be happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45886	Thank you very much, colleague. The next debate was registered by distinguished counterpart Bruno Kurelic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The day is on the move and we have before us this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights. The purpose of this law was spoken of by my colleagues and colleagues here so that whatever I would say about it now would be repetition, and I really don't want to repeat myself. In... on the exercise of children's rights, and in the opening statement given by the Secretary of State, it is concluded that this Convention does not require the adoption or amendment of existing rules because family legislation is fully in line with the requirements of the Convention. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So the legal procedure is in every way satisfied. But real life as we have seen today brings some new knowledge. This is an area where the proportion between the laws on paper and its practical implementation is often expressed. The two colleagues Vidovic and Lesar spoke very plastically today, and the plasticity of expressions has been confirmed even stronger in replicas. I'll just try to look at the potential of children's rights within the family, within the family in our environment, the environment in which we live depending on her personality of time and culture. When we talk about family, we must bear in mind that the family is the primary community in which the child develops and trains for life, but on the other hand, in real life the family often becomes an obstacle to the rights of its members especially children. It's a strange finding, yes. The United Nations defines the family as the smallest democracy in the heart of society. In everyday life, unfortunately, the family is far from a democratic institution where all its members equally participate and respect each other's rights. First of all, family privacy often allows an unknown to what happens behind closed family doors. For the family to be truly democratic, it should be based on democratic principles, primarily equality between members through a gender and age dimension. So, the balance between parents' rights and children's rights. Following family privacy, the home threshold often becomes a border beyond which human rights do not cross, and then children remain unprotected from abuse and physical and psychological within the family. In many Western countries, recognition of children's rights has conditioned a series of changes. The state has become an active and very present participant in the process of raising children and protecting them, and it is there to protect children when parents are unable to do so. The door to the family threshold opens and the problems so far, which have been hiding slowly come out. All of us in our daily conversation will argue that children are persons, not pets, not God’s part of home furniture. But how we really treat them like people with feelings, sense, and thus human rights holders. How much space do they have to express their feelings and their opinions? According to the relevant institutions dealing with this problem very little and very rarely. This is exactly what we need to think about and to minimise the proportion between the laws on paper and their application in real life. And for the end. Lebanese poet and painter Kahlil Gigran says your children are sons and daughters of yearning for their own life. And even though they're with you, they don't belong to you. We should all keep that dimension in mind when we talk about children's rights. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45888	Thank you very much, colleague. And the last application, dear colleague Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45889	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Sugar at the end. We're just kidding. My colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the clubs and in an individual discussion of eight colleagues and colleagues before me, I think they all said so I will maximumly shorten my debate and try to say what is not said in the debates. The Republic of Croatia, as signatories to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, has the obligation to bring legislative administrative and other measures in place for the application of the rights recognised in this Convention or in the Convention. With this law, we want to confirm the right to exercise children's rights, and through different institutions and laws to create assumptions that they are acquired and realised. Through a system of education and education, continued education of teachers and others who care about the rights of children, in institutions according to this law to create assumptions about free association of children, implementation of activities in order to exercise rights. To implement the law, it is necessary to prepare, as has been said here, the judicial authorities that need to take action, if the welfare of children is at stake. In order to monitor and implement the European Convention in the exercise of children's rights, it is necessary to assign to me an appropriate government body which, in cooperation with all institutions participating in the implementation of these rights, will analyse the situation and take the necessary measures. And of course to report whether to the Government or the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45890	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary of State Stjepan Adanic. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45891	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for all your thoughts, primarily for the support you have given to this draft Act on Confirmation of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights. As you can see, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is sending this bill to this House of the High, with human principles to approach the child as a subject with rights, not just as a person who needs special protection. That, as we just said, the European Convention lays down procedural rights for children through family-law procedures for the role of official bodies and the role of representatives. ... The conventions are seen in promoting children's rights and in their best interest, and in this sense the Republic of Croatia becomes a right to a courteous European state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now here's a few, I need to look back at a few of your remarks. Here is Mr. Lesar’s first remark, which said that there was a problem with enrolling his father in the books. Namely, it is the right of a child to have a father and mother and means a child must have the meaning of a father and mother enrolled. That's what I'd say is the natural environment of every family, every child, every father and every mother. Family law clearly defines this issue, but definitely clearly defines this issue. And since the family is the foundation of Croatian society and we insist that the family is Croatian society, because this is also the noblest thing we have. The father of a child, as we all know, is a mate and after 300 days of divorce, for understandable reasons. This is not at all controversial, it is a fundamentally known rule and other European Union legislation. As for the remarks of Mr. Dear Representative Vidovic, he said one sentence with which I definitely cannot agree. He said, here I quote family is the most dangerous place for children. I mean, as Secretary of State, I can't agree with that at all, and I believe neither do you, because if that were the case, then we'd have to end the family. I mean, it's not like that. We all know that there is violence in the family and against children, but we, this House of Higher House has brought as you know recently the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. We have other strategies that very well and perfectly regulate this problem, definitely violence has, we prevent it and bring it down to the slightest extent and our wish is zero means tolerance on this issue, but it's not exactly the point that family is the most dangerous place for children, because it would be a very devastating thesis. And here I am at the end and in the end I will actually look back on Mrs Kalaš, Bilić Vardić and Glavak. They're absolutely right. In the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, an expert working group has been established, which also works to improve this Family Law and we would be real blinds if we did not see what is happening on the ground, if we would not respect it in normal circumstances with experts, with the best people who regulate and who know this problem, together we will find the best solution if there is a better solution than this we will absolutely respect and propose absolutely as we have always done absolutely the best solutions. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45892	Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm closing point 4. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That's what we're doing for today, or tonight. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. on the agenda of item 5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-01-27-0.u45893	Fourthly, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. 476. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 110 votes for and one abstention, nothing against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we continue to work on the 16th session and move on to the agenda point - Final proposal of the law on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation to contribute to the deterrence, prevention and prevention of acts of piracy and armed robbery along the coast of Somalia (Operation Atalanta), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 479 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Secretary of State at the Department of Defense Mr. Mate Raboteg. Here you go.
