ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65474	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, condition amendments to the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Namely, the constitution establishes that voters without residence in the Republic of Croatia have the right to choose three MPs, while voting rights are exercised at polling stations in the headquarters of the diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia in the foreign state where they reside. Furthermore, the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has prescribed that national minorities who, on the day of its entry into force in the population of the Republic of Croatia, participate with more than 1.5% of the population are guaranteed at least three seats under general voting law. And national minorities who participate with less than 1.5% of the population in addition to general voting law, on the basis of special voting rights, have the right to choose 5 representatives of members of national minorities. These amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities have been incorporated and elaborated in the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament as follows: First, elections are held at polling stations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in a foreign country. Secondly, voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia have the right to represent in the Assembly and elect three representatives on the basis of candidate lists in a special constituency. These voters are proposing at least 6 and 14 candidates for MPs at most. Representatives, will be selected from the candidate lists in a special constituency of voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, are determined by applying a proportionate model according to election success, and Dont's method applies to the calculation of the results. Furthermore, voters or members of national minorities who participate in the population of the Republic of Croatia with less than 1.5% of residents in addition to general voting rights have special voting rights in the election of MPs in the Assembly. These national minorities who participate in the population of the Republic of Croatia with less than 1.5% of the population are selected by 5 representatives of national minorities in a special constituency that makes up the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The right to propose candidates for representatives of national minorities and their deputies shall be given to political parties and voters of national minorities who elect MPs. The difference is with the current provisions of the Law which have been deleted from the constituency of the National Minorities Association. And the next newspaper is national minorities who participate in the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the population of the Republic of Croatia with more than 1.5% of the population are guaranteed at least three seats of members of that national minority in the Assembly. Political parties and voters of the Serb national minority, propose their candidate lists in all election units, with the same candidates on the candidate list, the future Serb national minority is who, at the moment of entry into force of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, is represented in the population of the Republic of Croatia more than 1.5%. If the Serbian national minority candidate lists have not received three seats in the Assembly on the basis of the results of the election, applying a proportionate model according to election success, the seats to the guaranteed number shall be determined on the basis of the total number of votes of each candidate list in all constituencies. The guaranteed seats are won by the Serbian National Minority candidate who won the highest number of votes. If one of the Serb national minorities' lists exercises the right to one parliamentary seat in the parliament, based on the election's determined result, three guaranteed seats will receive the Serbian National Minority candidate list, which has reached the highest number of votes in other election units. If from the list of national minorities, if the lists of Serb national minorities have obtained the right to two seats in the parliament, based on the results of the election, two guaranteed seats are granted the Serbian National Minority candidate list, which has reached the highest number of votes in other election units. In this way we believe that we have installed and elaborated the provisions of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities regarding the election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The adoption of this Act is subject to the deadlines laid down in the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that the laws governing the election of MPs in the Assembly will be adopted no later than one year before the holding of regular elections for representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In addition to this Law on Elections, it will be necessary to pass the Law on Election Units and the Law on the financing of electoral activities, election promotions, in such a way as to round up the electoral legislation necessary to hold the next parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65475	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. The Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, President-in-Office Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed at its 44th session of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament with the Final Proposal of the Law. The Committee considered this law as an interested working body. Most committee members supported the proposed law by assessing that the solutions to the established amendments to the Constitution and amendments to the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities adopted in June of this year, which must be operationalised in order to be applied in the upcoming elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This refers to both the electoral right, the number and the choice of representatives of Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament, as well as the electoral right, the number and choice of parliamentary representatives of national minorities. Some members of the Committee pointed out that this law was to be adopted in a regular procedure, since, in their opinion, the current reactions to the bill may conclude that certain provisions are unspecified which may lead to difficulties in the conduct of the elections. In doing so, a more detailed resolution was requested on how to elect and identify representatives of the Serb national minority. The opinion was also made that minorities who in the population of the Republic of Croatia... had reduced 1.5% had to open up a wider debate, noting that only one representative represented them in the current law and 12 minorities as well as groups in which individual groups were distinctly singled out with their numbers. However, most committees have assessed that the purpose of this amendment and the addition of the Electoral Law is merely to implement the Constitution and the Constitutional Law and that the opening of other issues goes beyond those basic acts, and that the urgency of the procedure is conditional upon the need for the rights established by the Constitution and by the Constitutional Law to be applied in the upcoming elections. It was stressed that the electoral right of national minorities discussed in several parliamentary mandates and that the need to remove a particular electoral segregation of national minorities was reached by consensus which was implemented by this year's amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Therefore, delaying the amendment of the Election Law would mean that the upcoming elections cannot achieve what the Constitution and the Constitutional Law establish as the guaranteed right of national minorities. After the debate was held, most votes 8 for and 1 abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament until the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65477	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. And the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65478	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's what I'm going to say at the outset: The HDZ Representatives Club supports this bill. Namely, amendments and additions to the Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament should be analysed through two open units. The first of these units or the first of them refers to changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the Constitution, and the second part concerns amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Therefore, both amendments condition a direct amendment to the provisions of this law, so the logical consequence of this amendment and the addition of the administration to the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. And I'd say in terms of terms, but also in terms of deadlines. So, in terms of legal institutes that are working out, and in terms of deadlines, our obligation to prepare electoral legislation for the upcoming elections for the Croatian Parliament, because other than these laws, of course, there are still laws that need to be regulated and defined by election units under the Constitutional Court's decision, and of course there are obligations and the adoption of the Law on the financing of political parties and election promotions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is in fact a necessary amendment to the provisions of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and so on. First or under (a) in elections for the Croatian Parliament, therefore Croatian citizens with 18 years of age who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia have the right to choose 3 MPs in the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the law. Secondly, this right is exercised in the direct elections by a secret vote where voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia exercise their right to vote at polling stations in the headquarters of the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in the foreign state in which they reside. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia therefore ensures to its citizens resident in the Republic of Croatia who, at the time of the elections, find themselves outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia the exercise of electoral rights so that they can vote at the headquarters of the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in a foreign country in which they are located or in any other way which is also determined or governed by the law. As regards the other whole of the amendments in question, they shall directly rely on amendments to the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. Namely, equality and protection of national minorities are governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws, and the law can guarantee, in addition to the general electoral law, the special right for members of national minorities to choose their representatives in the Croatian Assembly. Members of all national minorities are guaranteed the right to belong to their national minority, but not only that but also the free use of their language, letters and cultural autonomy. In that whole or in that sense, the law in question is amended and, of course, it should highlight the three provisions governing these substances. They need special or extra emphasis. The first is found in Article 6 so that national minorities participating in the population of the Republic of Croatia with less than 1.5% of the population are selected by 5 representatives of national minorities in a special constituencies forming the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, political parties and voters of the Serb national minority propose their candidate lists in all 10 constituencies with the same candidates on the candidate list. The third provision, which should be highlighted in terms of these amendments, should the Serbian National Minority candidate lists not have received 3 seats in the Assembly on the basis of the results of the election, and in accordance with Article 40 of this law, the seat of representation to the guaranteed number shall be determined on the basis of the total number of votes of each candidate list in all constituencies. Finally, and accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports these amendments and complements the proposed law, and as I have also said, with a further amendment to the laws governing election units and, of course, the adoption of legislation which detailedly regulates the financing of political parties of the election promotion we would round up, or we have created all the normative preconditions for future elections for MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65479	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65480	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law, that is, the parts of the laws that result from the recent amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We believe that in important laws, and the electoral law, that is, it is necessary to conduct a discussion in two readings, as we believe it is necessary to reach the widest consensus of parliamentary parties on these issues. As according to the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, the deadline for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law a year before the regular parliamentary elections, so somewhere by March 2011, we believe that there is enough time to discuss these amendments and supplement them in two readings. The direction of these amendments and additions is given to us by the Constitution and by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities that we have brought along with a broad consensus of parliamentary parties and everything that adheres to that direction of the SDP Club is acceptable. We therefore also support that voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia vote in diplomatic and consular offices, as well as select three representatives in the Croatian Parliament and support the double right of members of national minorities who participate in a total of less than 1.5%. We do, however, have serious objections to the article governing the selection of members of the Serbian national minority to whom the constitutional law only applies to at least three representatives based on general voting rights from the Serbian national minority's candidate lists. So let's analyze what it's all about. The bill defines Serb national minorities' lists as one-listed in all 10 electoral units. We believe that this is a good solution because this ends the period of the electoral apartheid, which has been exposed to members of all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia when the voters who were members of national minorities had to switch from one voter list to another and in this way we already had a questionable secret of voting in the beginning. The bill also sets out the conditions that must be met in order for the Serb national minority's lists to be eligible for a fourth term, as the Constitutional Law speaks of at least three mandates, so it allows for a greater number of mandates. The right to the fourth term would be achieved in case the Serb national minority lists cross the threshold in one or two electoral units. We draw attention to the illogical nature of the proposal, which makes it better to get fewer votes than to get more votes. Namely, if the lists of the Serb national minorities get two mandates, they exercise the right to two additional ones and thus have four. If they receive three mandates, they shall not exercise the right to additional mandates and remain only for three. Although we believe that there are better and more logical solutions, that is not why we would not support this law. What makes us unable to support the law in this form is the way in which the mandates are allocated. Under the draft law, only one list would be granted, which would receive the largest number of votes. It's called a "so-called" theory. premium system. We can assume who gives and who takes that premium. The premium is given by HDZ and taken by their coalition partner SDSS. We must say that we are sorry for both of us, HDZ, because because of the three votes that support the government, he has agreed to such a solution that has not been recorded in the electoral systems in the Republic of Croatia since the very establishment of democracy. Neither when the County House was elected where three MPs were elected from each county nor today when we chose three representatives in the diaspora we had no such solution. It was always chosen proportionally, with Dont's system. This solution, the HDZ did not dare propose for itself, and today it gave in to coalition partners. We're sorry about the SDSS, too. We never thought we'd be questioned about their commitment to democracy and democratic principles, but it seems to be an accurate finding that the government is corrupting. Asking for the party's real strength to be based on the number of votes, and regardless of the number of votes of the competing parties, an exclusive representative of one part of the Serbs in Croatia is not like the party that holds a democratic adjective in its name. Asking for the basis of one vote to increase all three mandates, which otherwise requires about 40,000 votes, is not fair, is not fair and is not democratic. Although such a solution to us, as we say, does not go out of my pocket or into my pocket because of our own conscience and responsibility to the citizens, we cannot accept or shut up. So far, the election results, whether parliamentary or county, show that parties with a Serbian omen receive votes from 35 to 45 thousand voters corresponding to the real power of 3 to 4 seats. We assume that the number was also managed in determining a 3-term quota, although the total number of voters could be far more. In the past parliamentary elections, more than 70% of voters who were on the list of Serb national minority voters, who went to the polls, took a ballot in regular election units. Therefore, 3 mandates are reserved for representatives of a small part of the Serb nationality and there is no reason for them to be reserved by law only for one party. If, however, the party wants to be the only representative of that part of the voter, then it must fight for it with its votes and with a powerful victory over other parties that have a minority omen. The SDP won't help them. It won't help them. So far, election results show that the SDSS represents just over 70% of those 30% of Serbian nationalities who vote for minority parties. With this support, it is very close to achieving that goal to get all minority mandates with 70% of the votes yes, but with only one vote no longer. It is very rarely one legal solution, and a special solution in the Electoral Law is this clearly written for only one party that these changes are written for the SDSS. We are in favour of a democratic match where the mandates are based on votes in which each mandate is equal to or at least the same, in which one mandate is worth 10 thousand votes, not in which three mandates are worth one vote. We want to believe that the colleagues of the SDSS have become a little carried out or played a little bit when proposing such a solution and that they will not insist on it and thus bring HDZ into an even more unpleasant situation as it is now. If, however, both HDZ and the SDSS persist, it would be an example of political corruption that rewards one coalition partner. This would be an example of political bagging, not of Sanaderski in which the money was carried to the presidents of coalition parties, rather than of this latest one, in which coalition parties carry mandates in the bag that do not have a covering in the votes. We cannot accept such a solution, and if it remains this way, we will not vote for this law, and we think it best if the law goes to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65481	Thank you. It's SDSS's turn, distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65482	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First, as regards the amendments and additions to the Election Law for members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, including Serbs in the Republic of Croatia, this represents a very significant change, an amendment for which we have been waiting, for which we have fought, and for the past 18 years. I may not, because so many seats in the Parliament have not been but fellow Furio Radin and others certainly do. And in this sense today this debate and this fact that after the amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law came on the agenda for us is a very important day. It is a significant day because it improves electoral practice, electoral legislation and because it removes weaknesses that have been particularly special since '92 all these years. and '95. the years here were in force, which created segregating conditions in the polling stations, where people were recognised, divided by ethnicity, called out at polling stations whether they wanted to vote by ethnicity and in times that were very difficult and which led people to avoid coming to polling stations, and which people were instructed not to speak up and not to vote. We have with amendments to the Constitution or constitutional law and with amendments to this Election Law and for minorities who, participating in the total population of up to 1 and a half percent and for those above one and a half percent, have allowed such practice to be interrupted. And more of this kind of humiliation of people in polling stations, segregation in polling stations, violations of the secretion of the electoral procedure at polling stations will not be, and we consider it the greatest achievement in these changes, and we consider it the greatest thing we could do for voters and that we could do for legality and that we could do for democracy in Croatia. At the same time, we have preserved what has been worth over the past 20 years, and this is the presence of minority mandates and minority policy in both the Assembly and the political life of Croatia without which minority mandates and without which minority policies, with all the objections we have been able to hear and which we ourselves could refer to, would certainly not have been the improvement of political culture in Croatia, there would be no improvement in tolerance in Croatia, there would be no warning of minority problems and minority problems in Croatia without these mandates and without people who have acted as such for the past 20 years. And despite the fact that it is not easy to wear for those who bear the exclusive role of minority representatives, and you colleagues and colleagues know especially well what this meant and what this means still in Croatia and here in this House. We didn't have any, we weren't afraid to wear it. And whenever it was necessary, we agreed that the difficulties that it brings with it the role of a minority representative in the Assembly would be borne along with the difficulties with which minority deputies would bear it. So with the same seriousness, we will accept the objections that we had just heard from our colleagues, Bauk, who, unfortunately, did not object seriously but were the case files, and in the policy of the file, I will say something later in my speech. A policy that is a minority problem, which the selection of minority MPs wants to be aware of, I will also say something a little later. What I would now like to say about the urgency procedure itself may be that for 20 years or 18 years it is not a long period of waiting for such changes to happen. It was too long for us. It may be that someone thinks we have time to schedule a regular election deadline, and we don't think we have time. That deadline is there and that we must prepare our legislation for it. And if someone thinks this isn't a public debate, then they're wrong. The debate was held not for two months, not two years. The debate's been going on for years. And the solutions that have been proposed are neither the result of this coalition agreement alone nor the result of the preferred political circumstances that exist in Croatia and the schedules of political forces. He is the result of considering how to do Article 15. The Constitution of the third Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which guarantees, in addition to general electoral law, the right to vote, in particular, how to finally implement this article. How to break the illegal practice that if you use a special electoral law you must give up both general electoral rights and vice versa. If you're using the general electoral right to give up special voting rights, which was illegal. You think it was easy to convince all the factors on the political scene including our coalition partners in HDZ to accept that change. It's not. But we got to it because it was inevitable to accept it. And as for representatives of the Serb community, first of all, it was an objection that Serbian MPs, ere the Serbs, were deprived of the fact that they would not have a double right to vote. This objection, of course, is wooden because it is well known that if Serbs in the Republic of Croatia were to be blocked, given the number of Serb voters, by the same criteria as minorities up to 1 and a half percent, that this would in serious terms block the debate on how to manage the diaspora representation and whether these mandates should be limited, as we consider it to be and as it has been achieved, and on the other hand how these voices of Serbs do not disrupt relations between key political groups in Croatia on the right and left. And we have found a solution that is good and for relations between political parties and which is as good as the representation of Serbs. Three mandates have been protected, which under constitutional law were the largest limit that could have been reached, or the largest number that could have been reached, and now it has been achieved to be the lowest number from which it is based. So the least I can do. Secondly, it has been achieved that there can be more mandates than has been guaranteed by current practice and what is the case with guaranteed mandates. And here we come to questions that some dispute. And this is the fact that the mandates will be provided by two criteria, according to the criteria of the regular procedure in the election units, which means that the party or independent lists of the Serb national minority will be able to elect their candidates, i.e. their representatives in the regular election units as well as all other political parties. And if they pass the 5% threshold, they will have a regular mandate, and that mandate will be subject to the proportionality criterion, and that mandate will be subject to the criteria... the calculation. [[You don't understand.]] And for the term of office guaranteed, three guaranteed mandates will be subject to the criteria that have been in force so far, which is a majority principle. Those who know in '92, '95. The year we also had two systems, we had a choice by party lists, and we had a choice by election units. In one case it was a proportional system, in another case it was a majority system. We do not suggest anything but what was, which was in the selection of minority representatives, in minority election units, and what was so far in the case of selection practices based on two electoral criteria, or two electoral criteria. This is what we believe to be quite in line with both the current practice and the models of the election that might be in place. Secondly, as for colleagues and colleagues, these three guaranteed mandates, we understand that there can be people who will believe that there is a privilege here of this or that party list, or as counterpart Bauk said in his language of the file. Comrade Bauk, in my three terms, I know very well that what I'm doing is no premium for me or for many others who are involved with me. You would be better off talking about something else, not about what I do and what my fellow MPs do premium work, because if there is a job in this House that someone could do and who could be called a premium, it is absolutely certain that the mandate, that the job of representing Serbs in Croatia is not a premium mandate, and you will also be honored to see whether it is so or not. And as for the three mandates, I allow this to be discussed, of course, and it should be debated, but I find it difficult to understand that someone who deals with minority issues from moment to moment, from situation to situation, from the moment a minority party is to be attacked to the elections, and does not deal with it every day and is not a fundamental mandate, understands better and knows better what it takes or what it is good for the minority community than those who do. My colleagues and colleagues, the fragmentation of three guaranteed mandates is something we cannot allow. Fragmentation of these three mandates is not a democratic contribution to the representation of minorities, nor is it a democratic contribution to the overall democracy in the Republic of Croatia, but opens up a space for manipulation, opens a space for anyone who can not belong to a minority to collect 14 representatives of minorities, sponsor such a list, and comes up with the necessary number to win one term. We won't let that happen. It has nothing to do with the SDSS. Nothing to do with the SDSS, because as long as it took us years to create the SDSS, it could take so many years for someone else to create a better party than the SDSS. And anyone who wants to get involved in such a job is welcome, but the fact that the mandates are fragmented overnight and that what has been created for years is certainly not something that we can accept as a good solution, either for minority representation, or for democracy. And now let me say a few words about the policy of the file, whether or not it's a qualification of these mandates, whether it's a solution called political corruption or whether it's a solution called political bagging. The role of the Independent Democratic Serb Party in developing and improving interethnic relations in Croatia, I will not talk about improving political democracy here, because it would be beneath my honour to talk about it. If everything we have said and what we believe to be said in the future was not a sufficient contribution to what extent we care about improving interethnic relations and improving political democracy in Croatia, then of course it will not be enough to say it here today, so for this reason I will not do so. But if anyone thinks democracy should be defended from improving minority policy
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65483	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65484	If anyone thinks, I thank Mr. Vice President, yet to finish with this sentence, that democracy should be defended from better achieving minority rights in the Republic and if someone thinks that everyone else has the right to agreements, and that minority members do not have the right to agree on what they think is best to regulate their position, then it is in misunderstanding with how a democratic game is understood. But if someone's going to accuse us of destabilizing democracy like some of the '90s accused us of destabilising the state, then they're entering the anti-mansion speech zone, using the anti-mansian language.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65485	Thank you very much. We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. The first is that the expression is the premium system of the file. That's an incorrect quote. The term premium system is used in the theory of electoral systems as a description of the system in which all mandates or one prize or premiums are obtained by relative majority in terms of terms or terms in terms of mandates which are just proposed in this law. It differs from a majority system where electoral units exist and where one with the largest number of votes wins, and it is different from the bloc's system that has been in the elections so far, so for members of the Serb national minority where it was not voted for the list or for the candidate but for a block of three candidates. Therefore, the majority system has never been or has not been in the last 2 mandates. Now it's a block system, and a premium system is proposed. And it's not a testimonial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65487	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Part of the alleged incorrect, co-worker of Pupovac, was corrected by my colleague Bauk, so I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague, Pupovac, that on behalf of the SDP club, Bauk, presented the report. A colleague named Bauk made a serious complaint that the SDP club wants to point out that the electoral law passed in this assembly must be a more democratic solution. The SDP absolutely welcomes the adoption of this law, but believes that the solution given exclusively by an unreciprocal, proportionate number of votes cast in the elections is not a democratic solution and that no party can have the exclusive right to represent members of any minority. Therefore, as a club, we cannot support a solution like this because it points to political corruption that charges the SDSS blind obedience to this ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65489	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65490	Well, it is incorrect and unacceptable to say by a colleague, Pupovac, we will not allow the fragmentation of the mandate. There is no political party nor should it be in Croatia that can claim it for itself and which can act that way. Not according to the law. Whether there will be fragmentation or cumulation of the mandate will be decided by citizens in the elections. Whether they Croats, whether they Serbs, or members of any minority. It's equally not true that we say that the premium job is to represent minorities. We know that this is a very difficult job, we know that representing diversity and minorities of any form and content is a painful and difficult job, even today in Croatia. Not to mention wartime. But the SDP has never been hidden in a war nor now behind any list.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65491	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivan Hanžek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65492	I have to correct the esteemed colleague of Pupovec in one fact that I absolutely believe he is standing and the general public is well known. The Serbian Democratic Party cannot and is not an exclusive Serb representative in Croatia, but some from the party want to be a new Pribicevic for 18 years. The late Franjo Tudjman did not want to accept him as the new Pribičević, but apparently he has now succeeded.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65493	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65494	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Well, I agree, and I don't agree with some of Mr. Pupovac's parts. I agree that there were no minority representatives for the citizens of Serbs, Italians, Czechs, Roma, etc., meaning minorities, would be absolutely much more difficult. It's not easy for them anyway, but without those MPs in the House, it would certainly be harder for them. I'm not going to say that I would lose mention of the citizens of minority nationality or minority nationalities of the law, the constitution would certainly state, but I almost dare say that in them outside of IDS it's hard for this speaker to correct me, so somebody can hardly talk me out of it. So much to represent minorities in '92, '93, '95. I'm sure it wasn't a premium. The premium may be to enter the House with 300 votes, and the premium may be to win all terms with one vote. But let me go back to the law itself, so-called. The principle that we somehow baptize him "positive discrimination" or double voting rights for representatives in this small minority law should absolutely be supported. It should be supported for at least three reasons. It should be supported by the new constitution, it should be supported that representatives of minority communities in this country can finally declare themselves, that they can be named by their name and that thirdly, those political parties who are most consistent in defending the position of minorities should cease to be punished. It has been segregated, as one says, with such a single policy and minority, but it is rich in such a single policy that the parties that care about minorities are also segregated. In apartheid, as Mr. Bauk said, only minority representatives, but in apartheid there were also those parties that cared about minorities. If you were defending that position, it means members of the minority community with whom you shared both good and evil. If you have taken up the stand that citizens in your midst can declare their minority name if you have helped those minorities, if you have protected them, if you have represented them, if you have defended them, if you have supported them, then you have been punished in the elections not from those minorities, but from the law which made it impossible for the representatives of these minority peoples of the Republic of Croatia to vote for those lists. It was a conscious HDZ policy until the 92nd to the next election. It is interesting that minority representatives could vote for the lists in all local elections but could not vote in parliamentary elections. Now, with such a bill of law, that injustice is eliminated, and I think it's absolutely fine with the so-called. small minorities. E with the Serb community in Croatia or minority I agree that here, there is a continuation of the agreement on the relationship, as Arsen said to HDZ and the SDSS. We have Article 5 of this Act, national minorities who, on the day of entry into force of the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Constitutional Law, mean in the population of the Republic of Croatia, more than 1.5% of the population are guaranteed at least three seats of members of that minority in the Assembly. And then we clearly have this article on the 10th where you can see that whoever gets the vote more de facto gets all the mandates. This specifically means that if List A gets 15 thousand votes, and C 14999 votes all carry that list, it means all three mandates that received the vote more. It certainly is not fair for many, it will be said that it is a trade, that it is discrimination within the Serbian Corps itself. There's certainly no problem with other minorities because of the majority system, but here's the work of ghettoizing the community, but I'll call it trade in Sanader's way after Sanader. Sanader's gone, so whose book is this? This is a store that is rarely seen. Desavures the positive principle of so-called small minorities, because this principle of double voting rights, "double voting rights", is absolutely fair not to segregate parties that do not represent minorities. Why did I say this was some kind of store? Because logically everyone rewards whoever supported him, so it can happen that by voting for this list, minority representatives vote directly for HDZ. Not because someone will want to, but because the leadership of these parties can eventually be done. I can vote precisely for any such option, so it can also take everything, why would it always be the SDSS even though it is expected that these mandates go to their candidates. Never clearly, Serbs will not vote directly for HDZ but this way I don't know what can happen. Once again the principle means positive discrimination is perfectly fine, it's civilizationally correct. Few countries in the world dare say there is or knows the possibility that representatives of minority communities in Croatia, in their countries, are directly elected. Croatia has known this principle since 92nd, though, until new local elections, it has been knowingly punished by those who have cared about the position of minorities, so let's support in that part of the amendment or amendment of this law. Gentlemen certainly needed a lot of human dignity, defiance, 93th to install provisions in the Statute of Istria County on bilingualism or 92nd at the time of some events in Bosnia, all are welcome, or when thousands of people have left Serbian nationality, many cities in Croatia, I am proud that almost no one has left Istria. By the way, there was supposed to be a law. So, correcting injustice against those who may have cared more about minorities than about themselves, stopping a segregation and not going under existing status to elect minority representatives, but I said the background of the law is in the following, tying the Serbs to HDZ and continuing to trade with other minority deputies and providing for themselves the votes of the diaspora. Clearly, minority MPs will assume to hold a side and a future ruling majority. They kind of inaugurated it themselves, they rejected the ideology, they tied themselves to the government, it's okay, it doesn't have to be bad, although I agree it's always not fair. I'm not going to say that minority deputies were privileged, but the strategy was always by power and by authority, and not by seeing where that power led the country, sometimes it wasn't the right choice. So the double right to vote for small minorities is absolutely fair. The Serbian party's guarantee with a vote will certainly not be well received within the community. It is clear that in this country we should also recapitulate how to say the position of minorities, this will be clearly almost impossible, i.e.. to see what has been done for these communities over the last 20 years, i.e. What has not been done, in Croatia I know that the citizens will immediately say those from Belgrade have destroyed Vukovar, shot at Osijek, after Gospić etc., in Serbia will say 250 thousand Serbs have left Croatia, will mention Mercep, Handier Division, etc., and I say both should be processed but let's continue living together as people. To respect ourselves, to respect ourselves, to respect ourselves, and criminals if they are left on one side and on the other, to remove them from our communities. It's a lot to do, to solve the rent-right return to Croatia, Banja Luka, Vojvodina, etc. And this law I agree with has one first-class, political maybe and political someone will say raccio for the first part is not controversial, should be supported. We see that almost a few who or no one has spoken of the diaspora, so it has somehow passed after the changes as one I won't say the civilization step, but let's say the continuation of the practice so far but in principle when it comes to this law take or leave the IDS will normally take what is offered, because we are the party that has been the most punished by the election system so far. What also offends me that the announcement is not known is this ban on the transfer of Parliament. It will only further lead to the marginalization of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65495	It's not a subject, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65496	And that's why it would be a good idea, Mr. Vice President, to open that debate. Because HRT doesn't have the right to ghettoise parliamentary life in the Republic of Croatia either. And with their policies, they've already led to the fact that they're not being watched at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65497	Your Honor, that's not a subject. Don't make me give you a warning, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65498	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65499	Don't do that. I would ask that we stick to the subject and not take advantage of this pay phone in something that has nothing to do with the agenda under discussion. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. It is the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65500	I have to react to what my colleague is saying, and it's particularly incorrect that it says it's not good that minority representatives are with power. So I don't see what benefit minority MPs can make in the opposition. This way I can defend the interests of my constituents and I think they're well defended and loyal. And the other thing is that IDS can't last more than three months in any government. But that's the specificity of the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65501	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65502	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. There are various types of discrimination. For the purpose of combating any form of discrimination, the Croatian Parliament also adopted the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination to ensure equality between all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in each respect. clear with certain exceptions defined by law, as well as with regard to the possibility of achieving their national rights, as well as the right to achieve their political beliefs and the possibility of political action in Croatia. So in Croatia, there is a legal framework that guarantees all citizens and the majority of Croatian people and all members of national minorities equal opportunities to achieve every human right. Respect for minority rights in the Republic of Croatia is not necessary and must not be questionable for anyone. But why do we need a law like this before us today? What does the Republic of Croatia mean by itself, at best, triple discrimination? First, putting in a more unfavourable position of members of the Serb national community itself when it comes to belonging to one of the political parties representing the interests of the Serb minority. Secondly, putting in an unequal position of members of the Croatian people in the diaspora. And third, putting in a more unfavourable position even members of the majority Croatian people in the Republic itself. I will not spend too much time on the first kind of discrimination, because it is a matter of the Serb national community itself and no one should interfere with how relations between different political groups will be arranged within either and within the Serb minority. Another kind of discrimination. This law is unacceptable for us in the HDSSB because it is discriminatory for Croatian peoples, both in Croatia and in the diaspora. When the election of representatives from the Croatian diaspora was debated, the Croatian government led by the HDZ without significant resistance gave in to the demands not only of the SDSS, but also of the SDP. It is perfectly normal for this government that Croats from the diaspora without the help of the Croatian state would not even be in the Croatian Parliament have 3 MPs, and those who have destroyed the Croatian state have 3 and probably 4 MPs. It's normal for this government, but it's not normal for us. And the third kind of discrimination, the majority of the Croatian government's legal solutions when it comes to politics towards the Serbian National Community in Croatia, is the fruit of the ruling HDZ's obedience policy according to the requirements of various international factors. Croatia has become a sort of testing range in the world of unrecorded minority rights, especially when it comes to the rights of Serbs in Croatia. Such rights as are required for the Serbian National Community in Croatia have few minorities in the world, if any, and especially not some minority who started and waged war and committed such atrocities as the rebel Serbs did against the state in which they lived and in which they live today. And after all is forgiven, thanks to the Law of Forgiveness, more is required instead of gratitude. Isn't it enough to be the same? Does it have to be equaler than other national minorities and also than the majority of the Croatian people, both the diaspora and the one who lives in Croatia? And we can't even think about how many and what rights the Croats would have had if, by any chance, the Homeland War had ended differently. These rights have been lost on some new Crossroad, and countless caves and drills would likely again be filled with such and such Croatian rights. And you gentlemen at the SDSS aren't enough of what you've got today either. I say gentlemen of the SDSS because it is clear that this law is written by your dictatorship and is the result of the capitulant policy of the current Croatian government. Because of the three hands of the SDSS and the rest of the country, the ruling HDZ has agreed to all blackmails and this one. And what international forces have the right to command Croatia anything when it comes to the Serbian national minority? Did they, the same one who recently shamelessly reduced the poor punishment for the slaughter of 200 werewolves? 10 years in prison for 200 wounded? Ten years or 120 months or three thousand 650 days for 200 human lives? Is a human life worth 18 days in prison for werewolves of Croatian martyrs? Well, more days of working out of freedom for the common good for the offense when you don't pay a cop's fine in time. Shall we bear the commandments, the commandments, and the guidance of such? And the right hand of this same Sljivancan in a war-torn Vukovar was Vojislav Stanimirovic, president of the party that holds the government of the Republic of Croatia today. Vojislav Stanimirovic, who not only enjoys the parliamentary pension, but instead. .../Speakers speak in the same voice, not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65503	Your Honor, that's not the point. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65504	Mr. Vice President, I'm sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65505	Amendments and additions to the law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65506	It's an amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65507	Stick to the subject, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65508	So, instead of peeling away a long-standing prison, he's still enjoying his congregation pension and even mocking innocent werewolf victims. And it is also clear by illiterate that this law is only made for the sake of the SDSS and it is quite certain that it will receive a fourth representative. Because when the elections for the Croatian Parliament take place, be assured that they will be arriving by planes and trucks and buses and tractors from Serbia to vote in order to cross the electoral threshold and get a fourth representative. And then, when Serbs announce the vote on the way, probably in Croatia as well as in the world as it was announced yesterday in Belgrade, they will organise a petition asking the European Union to block Croatia's entry into membership until their demands are resolved. The rebel Serbs in the Homeland War have been defeated, but the battle continues to lead and must be recognised successfully because they do not come across much of a major Croatian resistance. This bill is discriminatory in our opinion, therefore, for Croatians in Croatia, both for individuals and for political parties, whom they meet their political needs. In our opinion, it is also discriminatory for Croatian defenders. Namely, if the political parties and voters of the Serb national minority, as found in Article 38(2) of the new proposal can propose their candidate lists in all 10 electoral units with the same candidates on the candidate list. Why this right could not be given to political parties and voters of the Croatian people, including representatives of the Croatian defence population. Why don't we change this law because we're talking about it, in a way that even voters from the population of Croatian defenders can propose their candidate lists in all 10 electoral units, with the same candidates on the candidate list. And these candidates can be established jointly by their own defenders either through their own defences or in some other democratic way, and may the law be amended in a way that guarantees that these candidates are represented by Croatian defenders or guarantees at least 6 to 8 elected representatives. If representatives of the Serbian National Community can have the exclusive right to 3-4 MPs, why would Croatian defenders not have the right to have at least twice as many. Or maybe someone thinks it's discriminatory. If representatives of the rebel Serbs from the time of the start of the Homeland War can sit in the Croatian Parliament, then they have an even greater right to do so by representatives of those who opposed their rebellion and therefore submitted the greatest sacrifice. Therefore, it is not necessary to increase the total number of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, for example, from each of the 10 constituencies. 12, not 14 MPs, and even the total number of MPs will be reduced. And no one can say how and so in the Croatian Parliament there are representatives who are also Croatian defenders. That is true, but they are representatives from the party lists and they must primarily represent the political interests of the party that has run them, not just the populations of Croatian defenders. In addition, if the recently elected representatives of Croatian defenders had sat here, I am convinced that millions of kunas would not be taken in the 2011 State Budget to Croatian defenders and given to the Joint Council of Vukovar municipalities, but also to meet other requirements by SDSS representatives. In addition, we propose to amend this law in a way that makes it impossible to be a candidate, let alone a representative in the Croatian Parliament and all those who participated in an armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia and who were in any way involved in the destruction of the Croatian state and the killing of Croats and the rest of the non-Serb population. This is particularly true for those who even participated as ministers or other representatives of the Government, so-called. SAO landscapes during occupation of part of Croatia's territory. If all other candidates must have evidence of impunity, then representatives of the Serb national minority who are elected in this way should have proof that they are not subject to the Law of Forgiveness because they may be punished for being applied. That we finally have some benefits from that law of forgiveness. And finally, the HDSSB club will not support this bill for the above reasons. But given the situation in which the state is located, there may be a need for some more amendments and additions to the Law on Elections in the Assembly, here is why. The MPs and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have not changed much in these seven years as they are in power. The salaries for the average Croatian citizen were also huge, arriving regularly not in the day but in the hour, the privileges are slightly reduced, if you are part of the ruling majority you do not have to tire your brain too much because you will also get on paper how to raise your hand for which part of the agenda. The consequence of this is that most parliamentary deputies, especially the ruling majority, lose their sense of reality over time, so that the people who sent them to the Croatian Parliament in their voices begin even to get on their nerves quickly and remember them every four years. If the President of the State can only be elected twice, if the same applies to other significant duties in state bodies and institutions, why not also apply to parliamentary representatives and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Two mandates and a lot, back to work, into real life, so if you've acquired the right to some privileges, for example. A privileged pension is made by the rest of the citizens, in the same age and working age. And until then, he works just like all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the same pay and under the same conditions. And no one is irreplaceable, so no matter what anyone thinks of himself or his unrepeated mastery. There are also going to be wiser and more cunning in the Croatian people than imaginary wise men and foxes. We therefore propose that this law be amended in a way that limits the duration of the delegation and participation in the Government of Croatia to a maximum of two mandates per 4 years. For many of today’s ruling coalitions, it would be best if they hadn’t been even one day here where they were. The best thing would be for them and for the state as a whole because many of them today would be with their families on the loose, and our country wouldn't be ripped off like it was from the Ali Babi story and 40 Hajduks, except there weren't 40...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65509	Your Honor, you've moved away from the subject again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65510	It's just as recently in the paper and more than 140, at least according to the first knowledge and testimony...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65511	You've moved away from the subject again, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65512	HDZ treasurer Mladen Barisic. I didn't step back, I'm bringing the end. I'd still say...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65513	Yes, you've moved away...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65514	I'd just say, I've still got time... I'm sticking to the subject. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'd just like to say, about the wise men and the leaves who think that God's given them to be here in the council chambers...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65515	Your Honor! ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65516	Staying in the Chamber rooms for decades, unfortunately, they almost turned them into their dens and dens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65517	Your Honor, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65518	So the article 215 was injured, which says that it is being warned by that representative who insults the Croatian people, and I believe that the MP has just insulted the Croatian people in a way that offends national minorities, which is the same item 215. I think he could have done it for the sake of those defenders of the Serb national minority who died in our ranks. Therefore, there is no point in generalising or thus treating members of the national minority in Croatia and generalising and saying that they are all responsible for the crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65519	Thank you very much. I warned him on several occasions, therefore. And now we have a few corrections of incorrect allegations that the first respected representative of Arsen Bauk is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my fellow Buric, who said that there are no such rights as are given in this Electoral Law to members of the national minorities anywhere in the world. So it's incorrect. Right, the double right to vote for minorities has, for example, in the Republic of Slovenia where members of the Italian and Hungarian minorities, except for the general right to vote, choose their representatives to the Slovenian parliament. The right to special representation beyond the electoral threshold of some national minorities, such as Germany in Italy and others, have those minority parties that do not meet the 2% electoral threshold but achieve a sufficient number of votes to have the right to a representative in accordance with the number of mandates and the Electoral Law in Italy. Therefore, this proposal is incorrect and we absolutely do that part of the law. That quote is incorrect and we absolutely support that part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65521	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. What's the injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65522	So, the violation of Article 209 because the esteemed representative Mr. Bauk was talking about something I wasn't talking about, and if you listened well, Mr. Bauk, I didn't say that there are no such rights anywhere in the world but that little where in the world there are such rights as are in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65523	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please don't use the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure for what it isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65524	The Rules of Procedure have been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65525	He's not hurt. Your Honor, don't get involved. I'm talking to Agent Dinko Buric. Please. Mr. Buric, please. [[/Upadica Buric: See Rules of Procedure what article 209 says to you. Don't stick to the subject and don't talk about what I said.]] Don't throw it out of the bench. You have no right to do that. Oh, please, Your Honor! Don't throw it out of the bench. Don't do that. Let's move on. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I could fix a whole series of incorrect allegations here. Comrade Buric, I'll just say the following. So it is incorrect for counterpart Buric to keep trying on a number of occasions to build on the name of Dr Stanimirovic some kind of political rating in this legislative body. Mr. Vojislav Stanimirovic is not a convicted man he is still unpunished, not even a suspect. And if we're legalists in this House and we respect the rule that everyone is innocent until they're proven guilty or convicted in that sense, please take care of it. And I would suggest to you, Mr. Vice President, that you protect the name and personality of the president of the parliamentary party more vigorously, one of the parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65527	Please, nice! You heard how to conduct the session. Injury of the Rules of Procedure again?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65528	Yes, the violation of the Rules of Procedure again following Article 209 because the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat again speaks of something that I did not talk about. Mr. Horvat, Dr. Stanimirovic wasn't convicted, we all know that because he's abolized. He's not a convicted war criminal, he's an abolized brush who's been absolved by the Law of Forgiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65529	Your Honor, you're entering a replica. I have to give you a heads-up again. Don't do that anymore. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65530	Yes, the judgment of Sljivancan is shameful, offensive, humiliating, delegated to world justice. But God has also delegated Croatian justice to me when it comes to the liquidation of Serbs in Osijek Every life I've punished with [[/Employed Capricorn: Your Honor, what are you correcting?]] This disgrace of Croatian courts. [[/Employed Capricorn: Your Honor, what are you correcting? Thank you very much. You're not correcting anything.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65531	Thank you very much. No more. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 10.44 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, the Honorable Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65532	Thank you very much. It's hard for a national minority club to listen to certain debates, but it won't apply to them because it's for the best. The national minorities since the existence of this multi-party parliament have always elected the Electoral Law itself by which they will be elected to the Croatian Parliament. They always did it on their own. There's always been tension, there's always been controversy with both the ruling party or the coalition and the opposition. And now a bit of a taught history, because I think it's missing and it hasn't been said enough about how the national minorities in the Parliament were represented once, as much as they are today. In 1992, minorities who were not then represented in the Assembly were called to the Assembly and there was a heated debate stemming from a new constitutional law on human rights and on the rights of national minorities. Cain, please! That debate resulted in one model. Of the five minority deputies and listen to little Mr. Buric, 13 Serbian minority representatives, 13. After the election, someone still remembers the rights and first trade of parties with Serbian MPs, but the right to trade. Do not negotiate on the human rights that are being exercised today and which someone persistently calls trade, corruption or I do not know how. It's easy to use hard words, it's hard to pull them back later. One store then, in principle, who's going to get less, and someone's going to get more. One shame that in the collective memory of all those who hold to human rights some collective who adheres to human rights, some parties will never release. Some parties will never be free of such disgrace. Even today, when I remember a store like that, it was a negative trade. I'm ashamed to remember that. As we will always remember the moment of the month after "Storm" when the number of representatives of the Serbian national community from 13 fell to 3 and when in 1999 from 3 to 1 and the number of representatives of small national minorities from 5 to 4. I was here, so I remember. And I was here, Mr. Buric, not to look at the hallways, but just to remember today. It is clear in our perception that the struggle that took place in the beginning of the 3rd millennium, when the then coalition in power tried to take away our direct representation in the Parliament, drown us into parties, take away our autonomy and turn us into listeners. Even today in this House there are those who remember with nostalgia these possibilities that would destroy us as a political fact. Only Minister Iron Flego then stepped into our defense in the government, and thank him today for that. Of course, we couldn't allow ourselves to be destroyed and the battle was fought in this House, not touching weapons, not only of high tones and heavy words, but of open threats. That was the time. In the end, the prime minister said neither Rome nor Belgrade will help them, we will not change their position. And he changed it after that. Not because of the opinion of Rome or Belgrade, who didn't have any opinion about it, but because the opposition at the time gave us a hand and accepted me as every drowner does. It's history. If Racanov and Arlovic's model had passed, today would have been easier, no one would have asked us to meet and decide about us. But it's not, because today we're facing a whole new situation that the coalition in power after the pangs of childbirth supports us, and the opposition, hopefully part of the opposition, but we're already seeing part of the opposition, challenges the model that we're offering, because in fact, by contesting one part of the model, the whole model is being challenged. Let's take a look at this model now that's being challenged in a section that's never been questioned and accepted in a section that has never been accepted before, because now an additionally uglyly called the double right to vote the trigger, forgetting that it was... Disdained and mocked for 20 years. [[You don't understand.]] While the majority system for the Serbian national community, which has always been accepted today, has been resolutely rejected by inventing models that are identical to those that were equally strong with arguments just a few months ago rejected for the diaspora, the same arguments, which we reduced to three, by accident, randomly, by being then so-called. The profession has not announced, which speaks of political legal and political science in our country. This majority system is called premium system and it is said that this system has been awarded unseen in Croatia, by course no one dares to say that the premium system has long been introduced in Croatia, as well as in almost all countries that use a proportional system with a consensus, and such a reward is called Dont's method that distributes votes to those who have never received them from voters. That's a fact. And why is it distributed? To free them from small, alleged, unnecessary parties. And so that this majority system for Serbs rewards those who are winners at national level, and that is done partly because they want to prevent the interference of the cryptic independent lists in this context, but at least as far as I'm concerned, which is more important to prevent the fragmentation of a minority in the Parliament. Because I remember when the three Serbian MPs in the Parliament were divided into three options, which meant for them, but also for other national minorities, and I remember what it looked like, we were sitting there. Yes, dear representatives, dear colleagues, the question we ask is political and it's not a newspaper. National minorities in the Croatian Parliament want to be a politically relevant factor that large parties cannot manipulate, because it is the only way to represent our rights. For 20 years, the battle is fought around that fact, and there will be more. That's not news. Who spoke of minorities in this House if not their representatives. I do not dispute that from time to time I see some MPs here and speak, some MPs have spoken positively about national minorities, but the burden of minority issues is borne by the representatives of the national minorities themselves. When, Mr. Bauk, Mr. Bauk, as 70% of Serbs voted for the party, one decent part for your party, when there was a systematic debate on the national minority from these benches. You should have that fact, that fact you should accept that one part of the Serbs voted for you, so talk about the Serbian problem. The few times this House talked about this problem, it would be said that something would be challenged. I'm not questioning any issue that anyone may have a different opinion than ours and mine, but let me tell you that, unfortunately, the good part of today's opposition is often far from the needs of minorities. I underline that, and I allow you to have a different view of it, because I'm not one of those who thinks we have monopoly opinions. We have a different view of it. I'm skipping things that could cause controversy in this House because I don't feel like polemics. However, I would like to say that when heavy words are used in this House, the new ones need to be careful that these words remain, for words are harder than stones some time. Not everyone's short-term memory in politics, you never know when, how and in what way you will talk in the near future, negotiate, and your opposition will then call it trade, and trade will not be but negotiations. And that's why gentlemen MPs, dear colleagues, we representatives of national minorities from below 1 and a half percent on behalf of whom I speak here, and I speak as you know in this club and the representatives of the Serb national minority are represented, and even on their behalf, we will support this law because it introduces an additional right to vote, which gives us representatives of national minorities nothing more, someone will even lose because of this fact of the election, which is told us by well-intentioned representatives, because look, maybe one of you will lose the election because now you have a different population who votes for you, but he is justly at a valuable... They don't want him to be represented by national minorities, some don't want him at all. [[You don't understand.]] That's what I'm saying here, and I won't do it, and I'll always argue that I said it, but it's wanted by members of the national minorities. National minorities feel damaged if they cannot vote both ethnically and politically. Why are you damaged? Because one of the rights which the Constitution gives them is taken away from them, and one of the rights which are among them is the true advocates. So we're going to vote for that law because it's what members of the national minorities want. And to all of you gentlemen, it is a recommendation that you speak about national minorities not only when you want to dispute something but also when you want to attack someone and when you want to speak positively about national minorities. That's what I tell all the MPs of this House regardless of their nationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65533	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect quote from fellow Radina when he spoke about the majority and premium system. I will repeat again, so far, the block system has been in force to elect members of the Serb national minority, as it is called in theory, and now if such a bill remains, the premium system that is also spoken in theory will be in force. Another incorrect allegation is that it is not good that, therefore, the party representation of a national minority is fragmented. It will certainly be decided by the voters, so if they think so, and their word is the last, then it will be so. And if they're going to vote for more parties then that's not going to be the case. And the fact that it's good and it's not good to be fragmented, get involved in the SDSS election headquarters, and then tell the Serbian national voters, they might listen to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65535	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect allegation from counterpart Radina that part of the opposition by contesting the electoral model of the Serb minority's representatives contests the entire model of national minorities' representation in this House because the SDP is in favour of it. And the SDP would be the happiest to see the Serb minority achieve all four seats in this House. So, the SDP neither in principle nor in pragmatic terms, nor in any way will participate, reduce the possibility of parties to the Serbian omen to achieve representation in this House because SDP has its own list, its citizens' list. Therefore, the SDP has never thought or thought it would manipulate some of the parties of the Serbian sign to reduce the SDSS's election success. We only think that all parties of the Serbian sign should have the same opportunity for their representative to sit in this House, and success will depend on the interest of voters who will go to the polls and vote for one of these parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65537	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65538	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Not once in these 20 years in the Croatian Parliament we listened to debates that were acute, politically incorrect because they also carried messages of discriminatory nature, those who wanted to mock and those who wanted to hurt. We can say it was that kind of time. But this syntagma will not free us from responsibility as the High House that when it comes to the rights and interests of national minorities we must always, but always, bear in mind that the interests of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are never contrary to the interest of the Croatian people. The marginals that are in every nation, political exhibitionists such as there are in every ethnic group, are not and cannot be those who will be treated and for whose political action and words spoken should be generalised by anyone's social position in Croatian society. National minorities proved not once, but I would say over the centuries that they are not a remethyl factor but a constructive factor in the construction of Croatian society. We in the HNS, but also our colleagues in HSU, have held in principle for years that the issue of additional voting rights in the country with such a historical, cultural heritage as the Republic of Croatia is no political exhibition and no deviation from the strongest protection of fundamental human and civil rights but only the possibility that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, any political Croat, regardless of its ethnicity, will be able to feel fully and able to use all the rights that the Constitution and all the laws offer. So when we talk about the double right to vote, then we need to know that with such a syntagm we're telling that it's a law that doesn't really belong to the originals of those who acquire it. If we say it's a supplement we're much closer to the essence of that meaning. After years in which the HNS advocated additional voting rights in 2010 and in this House of Commons had matured political awareness, the political wisdom which had already been entered into the Croatian Constitution had been established until the end, introduced not only by amendments to the Constitution but also by the Constitutional Law on the rights of national and ethnic communities and minorities, but by giving itself the task of amending the Law on the Selection of MPs in the Croatian Parliament so as to operate that it is no longer a matter of speculation and of someone's undeserved goodwill but a right as a constitutional category to be respected. And we said then, "It dawned that day." And no one should be afraid of the supplemental voice and the rights of the supplemental who are now finally brought to life in the interest of the national minorities because that interest is and be sure it will be very consistent with the interests of ethnic Croats in Croatia. However, as this process has been a major step forward, we think that some of the provisions of this Law can actually take a step back. Why? If we look at the general level that is new, we will come to the conclusion that this law mixes categories that should not be mixed, and that, by mixing in general with the special voting law, the majority with the proportional electoral system is actually creating a new situation that can cause major problems. Furthermore, in the light of this Law, it is said that Article 8 proposed amendments to the Constitutional Law, that they say more practically the right to propose candidates do not have an Association of National Minorities. We would like to remind ourselves that we can cause extremely big problems in identifying candidates in a whole series of special constituencies, certainly not in the Italian electoral unit, certainly not in the Hungarian electoral unit and definitely not in the Czech and Slovak constituency. But all other constituencies that elect representatives of a whole series of national minorities in one even 12 issue of candidate identification will be a crucial issue and cannot be resolved through the candidates signed by citizens, because if 12 minorities are in one constituency, and none of the voters can know which candidate represents which minority it is not fair and correct. This prevents many and quality presentations of these candidates. It certainly makes it impossible to identify on the ballots. Furthermore, if we take the existing Article 9 of this Law, it opens up a whole series of problems. It is said that political parties and voters of the Serb national minority propose their candidate lists in all 10 units, etc. What does that mean? Whether the political party's expression here refers to the political parties of the Serb national minority or not. If members of the Serb national minority choose the so-called General election units where general voting rights are used, then not only can the candidate party not be exclusive by its name but it is a matter of identification of both voters and candidates. How this principle will be implemented, who may propose, as it becomes a party to the national minority, whether it means a statement in the statute, a statement in the programme declaration, whether we are aware that no matter what its name may be called, so-called. satellite or sister parties that will declare that they are actually protecting the interests of the national minorities of the particularum. Why we cannot allow there to be political parties protecting the general rights but equally the rights of national minorities and, specifically, Serbs, as it becomes a party of the Serb national minority. After all, whether people can run for representatives of the Serb national minority who are not declared Serbs, who will check it out and how. Who will vote and how they will vote, what the ballot in the election unit will look like. If we're going to have two ballots, doesn't that mean again the danger of segregation and declaration of national membership? Could a party that does not have an acceding Serbian candidate to be in the competition for representatives of the Serbian national minority. If he can be sure we're aware of what that could lead to. Are we aware that this kind of thing means opening the door to the Komsic syndrome around which most of Croatia's elite was alarmed after last elections for the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Are we aware that there are candidates and parties if they understand the benefits of such an electoral model without any problem they can enter the Assembly without any candidates of the Serbian National and fully disprove their political parties, I will be open. In the previous parliamentary elections, around 25 900 Serbian nationalities voted for their representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In the previous presidential elections, three candidates appeared, one received 54,000 votes, one 41,000 500 and one,80,800. If this model remains the three candidates individually or jointly, without any problems, they can be declared to appear on behalf of the Serb national minority, although they are in the nature of the parties and candidates of the right Croatian national event, and without any problems they can enter the Assembly, not with three but with four MPs, and the Serbs will remain unrepresented, it is a falling of this proposal. Furthermore, there is no speech that this is about blackmailing HDZ, it is a very superficial assessment, because at this time HDZ's interests are very consistent with the possible effects of such a law. Why? It will certainly strengthen perhaps too harsh to say to cement the HDZ and SDSS position as a coalition partner, it will certainly increase the number of SDSS mandates. He will reduce the total number of seats in 10 electoral units from 140 to probably 138, he will also throw all other political parties out of the game for national-mind representatives. Let us remember that the Constitutional Court has warned the Government but also that, indirectly, there has been an important disturbance in the number of voters per election unit, that there will be an imbalance that can cause serious consequences because there are actually significant differences in political representation in the value of one term. After this solution, what will the Constitutional Court now say if three seats can be won with 12 thousand and 500 votes, and with 12 thousand and 499 none. Furthermore, if the majority system against which we are not, why was the entire state not divided into three constituencies in which one representative would be elected? Furthermore, how many truly guaranteed representatives are there? Are those three as the Constitutional Law says? Are these two as stated in Article 4(4)? Is that 4 as the paragraph 2 of Article 10 implies? We don't know that here. If you say there are three guaranteed, then there are three, if you say it's at least three, then there's no guarantee. Then three are guaranteed and the rest can be with or through it. Generally speaking, it seems to us that there were opportunities and strengths to achieve a better model that would not lead to an unfortunate situation or members of the Serb national minority as voters or their political parties, or candidates to go to the polls. It seems to us that, with further efforts, this situation can be clarified which is absolutely unclear now, and it is a great danger that the effects of the law that Minister Davorin Mlakar himself said would resign if he came to this House in this form. I didn't hear he resigned. Otherwise, he was the only minister to vote against constitutional law in the government. So, I think that at least we from the HNS and HSU Club should have done an additional effort to achieve what was wanted by the Constitutional Law but not to create a model like this that would give birth to a whole series of unknowns, and that means possible negative effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65539	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Beus Richembergh you have concluded in your discussion that minorities have constructively built Croatia. It's a great honor for the individuals he's got pretty much. But if the constructive construction of Croatia's creation of SAO Krajina is, then it's an honor to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65541	Thank you. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. We are moving on to an individual debate and the first is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65542	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and by means of an emergency procedure with the Final Proposal of the Law, what should be said first? First of all, Croatia is tired of monopolies of various kinds. She is tired of the monopoly on Croatianism, tired of the monopoly on the core, tired of the monopoly on the truth, of the Homeland War, of the monopoly in the economy, of the monopoly on common resources. In short, she's tired of the monopolies after the truth. Such a bill favouring only one party representative of the Serb minority, in such a way that the same people appear in the election in all 10 electoral units, and that eventually all these votes are being collected into one cup as if it were one constituency. Such a solution is unmarked in our legal history of electoral legislation. In short, it's a strange beak. And that's something that's unsustainable and you'll see very soon. Namely, what kind of emergency is this? We have at least 3.4 months left, and now it is such a rush to see how this law speaks as to the basis of this proposal, so that when the proposer states on the basis of what the amendments suggest, it lists the wrong number of laws published in the National Journal 44/2006 by saying that it is the Law on Elections of Representatives, and it is the Law on the State Election Commission. So some terrible emergency was both some terrible and hasty negotiations. This law is primarily a law that discriminates against Serbs and is therefore deeply unfair and undemocratic. It's a simple sex for the SDSS. Such laws here ad hoc for a certain group for a certain man have been since Sanader's time, but apparently he's not here but his legacy has grown deeply in HDZ and his legal proposals. Such a model, which serves simply in Croatia's current majority, where a certain group within the Serb minority again serves as a promotional coin. And it can't be because it destabilizes both the minority and destabilizes at the end and most. When most discriminate against the minority, surely it's destructive. But when within the minority itself, those who are going to discriminate, and most of them are helping the minority, then it's devastating and it can't be. It is constantly spoken from the largest places starting from the prime minister to all officials, zero tolerance to corruption, and we have to keep in mind that such a zero tolerance is primarily zero tolerance to the laws that benefit this or that group. It can't be. It's the most dangerous corruption. And that kind of corruption should only be criminalized as Italy and many other countries do. And that's what people see. Then what are the messages to their conduct? Something has often been said here because the SDP reveals both the HNS and other opposition parties, revealing both motives and motives. And then it's attacked for no reason, so it's said that this proposal is such that the largest political parties don't have their own reserve lists. This may apply to the one on behalf of and on behalf of whom and under whose auspices this bill is submitted. But that doesn't apply to SDP. The SDP never hid or had any backup list. Neither majority nor minority. Not only because he didn't have Barisic's bag so he couldn't finance it further, but because his messages were always clear and loud. And here's the truth and we have to say, representing minorities and those whose rights are sensitive, fragile in difficult turbulence times and wartimes, but also in crisis, it's not easy and it's causing it, this burden and such choice requires a great sacrifice but without any reward, without any premiums, either on the market of mandates, agreements, any premiums, brings only a burden. That burden SDP enjoyed, but that's not why we're complaining. But it gives us the right to endure and expose these situations. We know well, it's the end of such an affair now, but then we don't have to water on the other side to re-emerge something similar, to be a member of the ruling party means to provide yourself and your family with a good life, far better than the one the average man has. It means to gain all possible privileges. I was recently in a Serbian village not far from in the hinterland of Zadar, where only the Serb population lives. Those who haven't moved away for days or hours still live in the underdogs and half-breed houses. They are not members of any party, they go to the polls and vote on their conscience and conscience. On the other hand, right next door, they're big houses, and they're locked up, and nobody lives there. It's also Serbian houses, but no one lives there. Their owners come by bus when the elections are held, say they're paid for it. Are we finally going to end up with politics, with political corruption of the worst kind, that the solution to our personal problems, the ones that are within the law and even beyond the law and on top of the law are resolved by belonging to a particular group. This should simply stop with such a policy that has disgraced Croatia, and we still do not have access to the European Union today, although we should have been there long ago, according to our ability and resolve of citizens. But thanks to that and that kind of policy, those and those policies and we're not today. Today we hear some words that deeply worry, fear of fragmentation. And please be nice, which is why if this model is so good, it's not even secure for diaspora. Why did it give up there, and in a very acceptable way, we solved it by consensus. ... That's how we got rid of it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it's generally accepted and perfectly normal. And how is it that if this is a great model for you why you didn't insist on such a model and diaspora which would be wrong, but we suggest that in exactly the same way, unless otherwise this election issue is resolved. Or have you agreed to our proposal to get rid of the diaspora vote, too, and there you may be afraid of some new fragmentation. There is no fear of fragmentation or may be if you respect citizens, if you really want to manage citizens, rather than manipulate them, lead them, not seduce them. Unfortunately, there have been a lot of words here today about political parties, about the majority, about minority parties, not about the voter, about the citizen, about the man. They used to make puzzles where you got along well, got in, crossed out, but you crossed a man, and that's the worst part, and that's why I won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65543	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would not correct Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic about the bus elections, not on the fragmentation, but on the sentence in which she said that the SDP does not have Barisic's bag. That's where she used the unit, but I think she should, so the correction is in the plural, the bags. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65545	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Berislav Roncevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague said in her presentation that she was in a Serbian village in the hinterland of Zadar. It's never been or will be. If she wanted to say that she was in the Croatian village where they live in a larger or smaller number of members of the Serb national minority, that is correct. There has never been a Serb village in the hinterland of Zadar or will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65547	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Anton Mance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65548	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said the SDP does not use Serbian voters and the Serb minority. I'll fix it, and I think it's in other places, but it's also with me. When the lists are drawn together then put the Croats forward, Serbs in the back. The voices of the Serb minority are collected, of course the Serbs are not in the Council. After that, they come in because they're gone, and it's a practice that wasn't just with me, but elsewhere. So it's a lot of abuse, and the honesty you're talking about, I can deny you, but I can give you a lot more examples like that. It's a practice you can check out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65549	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, in what?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65550	My colleague was correcting something I never said. We have Croats on our lists, we have Serbs, we have members of other national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65551	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65552	No, no, he was imputing to me something I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65553	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65554	And unfortunately, he only identifies the Serbs with...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65555	Thank you very much. Dear MPs. ... Thank you. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I have to give you one warning after a long time of patience. Thank you very much. Let's move on. We also have one replica, the esteemed representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65556	Thank you very much. I could have given three false allegations, but I'm giving a replica so that it could be answered because I think it's the only parliamentary one. First, that the SDP has never been against such legal solutions on an additional right vote, it is purely wrong because it has always been against, only since this term has it not. And I said before, the only one from the Iron Flego government voted against a solution that was against additional voting rights. Second, diaspora. The normal thing, for the diaspora, is the model spoken of by counterpart Ingrid Anticevic proposed opposition, SDP, HNS and without opposition votes could not be passed the constitution. And the normal thing then changed because of their proposal. And tomorrow we'll have three diaspora deputies and those three diaspora representatives won't match the number of votes. That'll be obvious. And third, it has been said that corruption is in fact what is proposed for the Serbian national model, for the Serb national minority and is cited why corruption. Because the premium is given, and Italy is listed to fight such corruption. Dear Ingrid in Italy 70 MPs get premiums if you have one vote more than that. And so he got Berlusconi. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65557	Thank you. You first picked up a plate of injuries from the Rules of Procedure. Replica? Replication response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65558	You see, fellow Furio, you spoke and replicated to me about the additional right to vote who was in favour at the time and who was against it. I don't know why you did it, because I didn't say a word in my speech about the double right to vote. The second thing, when you say that this proposal for a solution and a constitutional solution for the diaspora came from the SDP. That is true and most have accepted it and those best solutions are exactly the ones that HDZ accepts from the SDP. Unfortunately, they're rare. But in this context, I said not because it is good or that we would boast of such a proposal or acceptance by the majority, but that we would say exactly if it was our proposal, if most of them accepted it as a good solution, so why, I was saying in that context, which is why, even in this Electoral Law, the bill does not accept such a single solution for minority members, because it is fair and good and it is a truly just solution that would not make any recommendations. But it didn't exactly come out of it because of all the motivations I said before and which I don't want to tire you of here all over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65559	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual debate and it's up to the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The debate on the Election Law for Politicians is about as exciting and passionate as putting together a football team for other football-mongering citizens. Everyone knows all about it, everyone has an opinion about it, and they're convinced they're right. I won't take the right to say I'm the only one right, but I think the arguments I made on behalf of the club, and now that I'm going to present in an individual debate, are no worse than the arguments of the government, than the arguments of the SDSS and the arguments of members of the national minority club. In fact, I think they're even stronger than that. First of all, this is not a debate on the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Some historical recommendations that were, as well as members of the SDP, may have led to confusion in their performances by both voters and members of national minorities in history whether or not they were for a double right to vote. Those stories are behind us. But I'll say it again from here. A double vote could only be introduced with a two-thirds majority, and the SDP had never had a double-thirds majority. Thus, we expressed the attitudes that we thought we could go through with the positions in the House at that time. The moment the right hand of the Croatian political right or the right centre came to agree to the double right of the voice of part of the minority, not everyone at that time, and our position was simply such that our ideas were accepted. And all that was before that could be considered one kind of tactics that is as obvious as you say, Mr. Radin was not well. As for, therefore, minority voting rights, additional minority voting rights below one and a half percent of the population. It's a solution that's good. It will not significantly affect the mandate schedule in 10 constituency units, as for all, therefore, the election units of national minorities to whom the total vote has been voted in all 10 electoral units as many people as is enough for one term. So, if everyone voted for one party, it would change for one term, and it's really not weird if the HDZ had not found that solution unacceptable, because it obviously doesn't change much in the schedule of forces. What was reluctant was the question of determining how to vote and count the mandates, members of a minority who has more than 1 and a half percent in the total number of voters. So, Serbian national minorities. The solution so far has been bad, it has been humiliating for minority members as well as for majority people, which is that the voter in the polling post must declare which list he wants to vote for and I, in the name of the club, called the electoral apartheid and I am very glad that this law will end it. This is one of the greatest values that members of the national minorities have achieved by participating in the ruling coalition in the past seven years. And that's what they need to be congratulated on, and there's no need to hide it at all. Also, the issue of diaspora voters' election is the fruit of the agreement, a compromise between the largest political parties where they found a solution in constitutional changes that will allow SDP President Zoran Milanovic to live on both sides for the next ten or more years. And the way that the members of the diaspora list are chosen, to be a proportional system is something that is on the trail of what has been in the solutions so far, and we also support it. The issue of representation by the Serb national minority parties, which should be said that according to the State Election Commission, since 13 December 2007, 82201 voters who had the right to vote in the Serbian National Minority Election Unit have requested a release from the voter's list and have been put on a regular voter list of which 9,000 votes received by the SDSS in the 9th electoral unit should again be rejected. So somewhere around 73,000 voters show that constitutional changes and this law that is on track, so constitutional changes allow parties representing a part of the Serb nationality voters to be particularly represented under special rules in the Croatian Parliament. And I think that's good. Namely, it is not good in such an electoral system where electoral units are to conduct a calculation when assembling the borders of the electoral units and about the ethnic composition within a particular electoral unit, so that such a party may or may not be able to cross the threshold. Therefore, I think it is good that the results of such parties are accounted for at the level of the Republic of Croatia, so that this would not affect or have any idea that election units, regular electoral units, are working on an ethnic basis. They are now more or less coincided with the borders of the county, and where possible because of the equal number of voters in a single constituency. When we change the electoral model, we can think about different boundaries, including perhaps different numbers of voters who are elected in a particular constituency, but making sure that each vote is equal to or at least equal to that 5% that the Elections Act predicted. Therefore, our only comment that is important, applied in a way, not to the number of representatives of the Serb national minority, not in the way they reach that number, but only in the way that additional guaranteed mandates are allocated. In Croatian political history, several examples remain when three mandates are deployed through Dont's system. It was the '93 election. And '97. for the Parliament's County House, these are now the current legislation that speaks of the election of members, so the diaspora vote, therefore there is no rational and logical reason why such a solution would not apply to the choice of members of the Serb national minority of those voters who have decided to vote for parties with a Serbian omen, and these are among the total number of voters who go to the elections somewhere around 30%. The SDP does not share its voters by nationality, we have every vote of the Republic of Croatia that recognises something in our programme that can identify a welcome and we will not have a special list for the Serb national minority, first because there is no need for it, and secondly because it does not make any sense. In a situation where members, therefore, all citizens have one vote, and some minorities in two votes, any incentive of lists that would go to that electoral body would take away votes from all parties, including what Mr Beus said in the regular election units. Therefore, such concern is illogical to me, because if someone can persuade voters on the right to vote in favour of a list of 14 members of Serbian nationality, then they can only persuade them to vote for them, so why would they do so. So that fear that someone might abuse it does not stand. This solution is still in one piece illogical. The Constitutional Court has given us the task of correcting election units to be within 5%, which is 20,000 votes for a mandate that can be changed, and three mandates are allowed here for one vote. Like I said on behalf of the club, not in our pocket or in our pocket. Basically, for the SDP, whether there will be 4 SDSS representatives on the list of therefore Serb national minorities or 3, which is very realistic according to the results so far, whether there will be two SDSS representatives, and one SDSS representative of another party, it is completely irrelevant to us at this point. But there are those who care. But institutions, therefore, would not have their team, so this interest is not so great that they would have to adapt electoral legislation in such an obvious way. In addition, there were few raised tones in the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities due to the common council of municipalities, to which HNS, SDP, reacted at the time, and a satisfactory solution was found. Therefore, I see no reason not to find a solution that is satisfactory for this problem, which might allow if there is a basis for this in the number of votes and more than three and more than four MPs, but for these representatives to be divided by a proportionate system as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65561	Thank you very much. Before we have one replica, rather than giving the replica, I want to inform you that we need to finish, you've got a consolidated agenda for the 20th session to continue with the final 7th point, so I suggest we work today without a break to do as many of that remainder of the agenda as possible, and tomorrow it ends and then tomorrow it will be at some appropriate time and voting. So I'm asking for your understanding, we're working on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65562	Vice President, we haven't heard back here, which point we're finishing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65563	With point seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65564	Today?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65565	Today and tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65566	Today and tomorrow? And then what?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65567	You have to. They still hear when it comes to order. Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65568	Yeah, there's a lot of things in the speech about the electoral model that I'm not going in with, that I'm not going into the controversy with, because I've brought my attitude and attitude to the national minority club before. I just want to say one thing, because, in fact, it would also be the wrong quote, and that's why I'm going to answer and then another remark I'm going to make to strengthen what I said before because it's still talking about premiums. Never, Mr. Bauk, ever say that your party was not against the additional right to vote, because it raises the question of my memory and my psychic integrity, and everything that I am, it just means that I wasn't in this House at the time and I wasn't involved in political life, and I assure you that I was and I participated and you were against hands and feet. And don't say you waited for the context when it would be possible. You weren't waiting for him. You changed your mind today, and that's good. And about the premiums that would not be in any country, of course it does not apply to Mr. Bauk, but only because he introduced the first one and well that he introduced him because that's what needs to be discussed. Otherwise, there's a lot of good things that Mr. Bauk says, but this one, and it's a good thing he introduced that notion of premium. But earlier on, from the same benches, these premiums were questioned and considered corruption, because it was said that in Italy they were fighting it, and I will strengthen what I said before, and I will say the following at the party's previous right-wing elections had 20,000 votes more than the left-wing parties in Italy, it's like in Croatia to have 2 thousand votes more and they got 70 MPs more because of the premium. And what anti-corruption law, and no one calls it corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65569	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65570	So I will no longer question the memory of fellow Radin, a team more because I wasn't in this House at the time, but I heard people who decided on behalf of the SDP and in what way they explained what they were representing, but we can do it outside the hall so we don't open that topic anymore. As for the electoral models, each country has its own solution that is appropriate to the situation in the country. In 2006, it seemed to me or in 2007, Berlusconi introduced this premium system because he thought it would allow... Yeah, but in the Senate, they don't have that system, so then in the Senate, the premium goes to the country level, then they're getting a tight majority again. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, I've followed it a lot. Such a system has not yet been in Croatia. It might be good to introduce it for the majority parties, so that we have a slightly more stable majority, anyone or HDZ or the SDP who already gets a larger number of votes. But I think under some general terms of amendments to the Electoral Law, that's one thing that can be discussed and passed by consensus. This was another question, therefore, we came to the table with a bill which was not therefore the fruit of the agreement of the largest parties, members of minorities to whom this applies most than it was the fruit of the HDZ coalition agreement – the SDSS within the ruling coalition and why we would unreservedly support it. That's not our job at all. Therefore, if someone had asked us something, we would have given a solution that we think is good, we would have talked to other parties to whom this applies and perhaps we would have come up with the same solution with the argument and our rhetoric would have been different. In this way, give a proposal that significantly changes electoral arithmetic and geometry and ask that we blindly and unreservedly support it and shut up it is not exactly in line with the current standards and we did not agree to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65571	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. ... Don't throw it away, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's your honor, Mr. Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65572	Well, what my colleague Arsen said in his presentation is actually the essence of what I wanted to say. In fact, it's not about the ability or the inability of the model, it's about the consistency of the system. As Mr. Radin remembers for a long time because he's been in the Parliament for a long time, but we who aren't in the Parliament also remember for a long time that there have been different experiments and premium systems in our 20-year history, that's right. Therefore, not because it is impossible but because it is better to find a consistent solution that is applicable to each case. If that's how we'd be performing around all the changes in the electoral system, then I think we'd all be actually happier. In addition to the stability of the electoral system as a guarantee and certain political stability, we do not evoke absolute but partial but secondly, which then eliminates possible difficulties about someone trading with someone to achieve their premium. When it comes to Italy, colleague Radin, to 760 MPs, 70 MPs is one figure, and to 138 or 140 I said so by binding to the past, not to this situation. ... And what I want to say in the end, I'm going to cut short, given the request of the vice president of the previous presidency, that exclusiveity should be neither a function nor a parol to be served in a political struggle. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can testify at the most difficult times for citizens of Serbian nationality in Croatia at the time when rough aggression was committed to the Republic of Croatia, when it was difficult and dangerous for some who were not even more proponents of aggression, when it was difficult to come and apply as a volunteer to Croatian troops, and to be a Serb, SDP, and I can testify about it, was not a advocate for protecting the rights of Serbs because of political popularity but because of the essential relationship for the protection of each individual and every citizen. There sits now the witness of one such meeting on September 5, 1991 at 9 o'clock in Osijek. The President of the Parliament can testify the same, and some who are no longer in politics today. Hence, long memory has its advantages, and it has its faults. But talking about who did what I think should not speak to those who have long memories because they could make arguments that do not contribute to those who do so. So, this fellow Radin doesn't apply to you, I'm talking about those other people who mentioned things in their discussions today from the past. Therefore, I advocate that the same criteria are applied in the Electoral Law for both diaspora and for selecting minority representatives. Donte's method for all elections then and in this case should go with Donte's method and evenly spread out because it can happen to us and that for the diaspora we get unpleasant surprises that the legislators did not consider that someone new would appear who would pick up the same votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65573	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65574	Of course, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would be happier to discuss today a new Electoral System in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be able to vote and round the name of candidates, not party lists, such as in Slovenia or Germany, where the electoral units are divided into constituencies and in each election district the candidates of the parties are sorted by name and last name. But obviously in Croatia, such a topic is still a distant future, at least until there are more serious changes in the structure of government. The debate I heard on behalf of the representatives clubs so far and in the name of the SDP club surprises me by their subsequent concern with this bill because it turns out that when the constitutional changes were agreed, there was no obvious word on how constitutional amendments would be implemented through legislative legislation, and even when we passed the Constitutional Law on the adoption of the Constitution where it was indicated that electoral legislation would be amended. It is not good when we have made such serious changes in the Constitution that all those who worked on them and negotiated clearly did not reveal the cards until the end, did not end up saying how one idea and one principle in practice to implement. If I am not mistaken in the previous parliamentary elections, my voting right to vote and the election of representatives of national minorities has taken advantage of slightly more than 18% of registered voters in Croatia. A little over 18%. I have said in the debate on constitutional changes, and I will now repeat that this model of political ghettoisation is members of national minorities, and the fact that only 18% of this right has confirmed that the vast majority of national minorities have also experienced it. If these changes make any difference, I don't think so. The position, status and influence of national minorities in Croatia will be equal when they remain ethnic minorities and political Croats. One issue is the representation of a number of national minority representatives in parliament, and another how they will be elected. And now I have two practical questions that I couldn't find an answer to by reading the bill well. The first question, whether the Serb national minority voter can refuse to vote for the list of candidates under Article 38 and has the right to vote on his election unit for the political party candidate list or whether he must vote and whether he can only approach the vote for this in Article 38. There may be an answer, but I couldn't find it. What if it really turns out that members of the Serbian people have to vote only for it or have the opportunity to vote only for it, will be derived from the list of voters as before. And the second question is, if a member of another national minority comes to the polls, he does not want to vote for a list of national minorities but exclusively to use the vote in the constituency, vote for a list of political parties, there will be two copies of the voter list. Someone objected to the current model that members of national minorities in polling stations had to declare themselves, and now it will be, we haven't changed anything. And I repeat 18% of the members of the national minorities used the right to be more equal than others, so in the name of which most of us advocate models, like this, it doesn't matter to me how you calculate mandates or it's obviously fixed and it can't change. There's one more question that's bothering me. The issue of national minorities, how come there are no reserved seats for national minorities in the European Parliament. Hundreds of millions of non-EU minorities live across the European Union. Should we argue that national minorities are not taken into account in the European Parliament. We haven't received housing and housing laws, so we won't be able to solve voters' lists before the election, not significantly, perhaps a little. We have not changed the Law on Election Units yet, although we are all aware that the current electoral units are contrary to one provision of the Law on selecting MPs in the Croatian Parliament that prescribes that the number of voters cannot deviate more than + 5%. Something about it was also said by the Constitutional Court a few days ago, and the first submission for it was given 5 years ago and I find it strange that everything at the last moment of entry into the election year is all awakened and noticed that some laws do not agree with the second, that the other is not with the third, and that some simply fail out of the procedure because the government forgot to send it to the second reading within six months. And when we come to the need to harmonise the Law on Election Units, and that the number of voters cannot deviate more than + 5% then we will remind again that this is only true for a part of the MPs, that some will be able to win a term with one vote, will be more equal than equal. I would like to express my regret that such important jobs as the electoral units will be brought just before the end of the constitutional deadline, and we have had time and peace-stricken and good analysis to make the composition of election units without a lot of arguments. We had the opportunity to discuss whether we should just end the electoral units with scissors, glue, cut and drop or introduce a system in which each constituency would not choose the same number of MPs if we cannot achieve that provision that greater deviations of + 5% would not be. And I'll finish the next one. Today I heard from members of national minorities and others calling for positive and good experiences from some European countries, and that's good. I will now refer to an experience of neighbouring Slovenia, which I think is also very good, which has two representatives of national minorities and there is an unwritten rule, a political agreement that representatives of national minorities do not participate after the elections to create a parliamentary majority. They wait for it to come together and then decide whether it'll be part of the government or part of the opposition. And I call on all MPs in the future part of the Croatian Assembly from the ranks of national minorities to accept this good practice from neighbouring Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65575	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65576	Thank you. Although I agree with the good part of what you said, I want to correct you in that information when you said that 18% of the members of the national minorities used their right. Therefore, because of election rules and because of the voters' list, this data can be obtained if the number of members of national minorities who voted only for the 12th constituency with the total number of voters on the voter list is compared to that number of voters who switched from minority to regular constituency. According to the State Election Commission, 121 thousand citizens have switched from minority to the list of voters of regular election units of 4000 459 Hungarians, 6 thousand 399 Italians, 5 thousand 292 members of the Czech and Slovak minorities, 4 thousand 695 members of Austria, Bulgaria and Germany, etc. minorities elected by one MP and as many as 19,000 029 members of Albania, Bosnia, Montenegro, Slovenia and Macedonia. In this way, it is seen that, apart from members of Hungary and the Italian national minority, all other representatives of national minorities were elected by less than 1/3 of the members of those national minorities who voted, for example, so a member of the Bosniak national minority was elected by a thousand 300 votes, and 19 thousand voters were released from that constituency. Thus, even these MPs will find it harder to reach their mandate than they have now supported this solution and should be congratulated on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65577	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65578	My colleague Arsen... Correct. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] I said a little over 18% of the members of the national minorities took advantage of the right to vote in the 12th election unit for the lists of national minorities. But the data you have just presented that 121,000 voters from national minorities have been transferred from 12th to regular election units and voted for political parties' lists was their vote, their statement that they do not want to be politically segregated and want to decide as all other citizens of the Republic. It's just proof to me that this model of selecting representatives of national minorities even most members of national minorities don't want to. We force it on them. They could never decide otherwise or give their stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65579	Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65580	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, I support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, because these amendments are primarily the result of the long-standing work of minority representatives themselves but certainly in cooperation with political parties. Fundamental human rights and freedoms must be regulated at the highest level. This means that they must be regulated by the Constitution must be elaborated by specific implementing laws and we certainly include the rights of national minorities, their protection and the way in which rights and freedoms are exercised. In 2000, the Republic of Croatia fully regulated the rights and obligations and responsibilities of national minorities, creating material, financial, cultural and economic conditions, always encouraging cooperation, tolerance and mutual respect. A whole series of minority laws have been established since the Constitutional Law, the Law on Minority Education, the Law on Official Use of Language, and a whole series of laws that are in an indirect manner regulated by these issues have been adopted. There are certainly international conventions and international agreements with which the Republic of Croatia is also a signatory. It is important that Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The constitution guarantees equality for members of all national minorities and the Constitution was also defined in 2000 to ensure, in addition to general voting law, the special right for minorities to choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And I am pleased that here are ten years later by amending exactly the Constitutional Law this year, and now the amendments to the Law on Elections to the Croatian Minority Assembly, which account for less than 1.5% of the population, which means all 21 of the numbered minorities other than the Serb minority, will be able to consume the additional right of vote, i.e. slightly more than 3% or about 130 thousand, which is ultimately confirmed by most speakers that they support this right. But I'm asking one question here, will the minorities really be able to consume that right or all the minorities or all the minority members, or is there one? Yes, there are and these are lists of voters regulated by the Law on Lists of Voters. Because in order to get on the voters list and you can vote this time additionally, as a minority, you have to find yourself on a minority list and you can't always do that. In particular, Article 13 of that Law lays down the right for each citizen to review his or her entry, to request his or her addition or correction throughout the year, except for 14 days before the election and normally during the elections. But you can fix anything except national belongings. This must be determined whether the information is incorrect or is intended to change nationality. In this respect, Article 4 shall apply. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities that I quote: "Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to freely declare himself to be a member of some national minority in the Republic of Croatia". It's a fact for the offices, it's past time, and it can't be changed anymore. It is not known how, when or if a citizen himself has declared himself or was registered on the basis of some document from the MUP or worse, the condition for obtaining citizenship was to plead as a member of the Croatian people although these two things should not be connected. Registrations, citizenship, travel documents and residence records cannot be assumed and cannot be favored by the voter himself. I will remind you, when it comes to the formation of national minorities, a whole series of different causes can be cited, political, geographical, economic, historical, i.e. It can also be done by migrations conditioned by various factors, unregulated borders and up to ethnic and war conflicts, which characterizes our area in particular. In the Republic of Croatia, every citizen has the right to freely declare his nationality or not at all declare himself. Nationality is not obtained by birth, it is a matter of a personal or individual right based on a cultural, social and psychological relationship between a person and a nation carved into a sense of belonging. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 15, continues, quote: The members of all national minorities are guaranteed the freedom of expression of nationality, and therefore cannot be interpreted in two ways by the Constitutional Law and the Constitution is obviously of a higher rank and if it speaks of a plea rather than a declaration I believe that I am asking the Honorable Secretary of the Ministry of Administration and asking him when will the right of each individual to express his nationality only by a declaration of respect and when the usurpation of this right will be interrupted in certain offices of the county, but also by interpreting employees in the ministry. Namely, all these amendments to the Constitution, the Constitutional Law and now the Election Law remain a dead letter on paper because part of the minority because they cannot freely declare this right will not be consumed. I'm going to show this on the example of Miljevac, Zok's breed in Virovitica-Podravska County where no one argues, everyone knows that there are mostly Slovaks there, to speak Slovak but they are not allowed to plead as Slovaks. And I'm saying good laws, in practice we're going to have incompetence again. As for the part of the Serb minority vote, I support the proposed model for selecting representatives who account for more than 1.5% in the population, the model for choice means Serbian MPs and I will vote for amendments to the law. And since I have time, I want to answer to my colleague, Lesar, who said that most members of the national minorities do not want to vote minorityally. Not true, they have been forced to commit either national or political by some means. As most citizens of the Republic of Croatia act politically, they want to vote politically, they want to influence the option that will win in Croatia, for sure, and therefore they have decided to vote politically rather than minorityly, so more so that the number of votes for minority MPs has not been limited. That's why we've been trying and all along, almost 18 years, as my colleague here said, we're looking for this additional right to vote so that indeed all members of the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia can vote politically, and normally retain the right to vote on the basis of national membership for their representative and this certainly gives them the right to do so. But again, I remind you, there is a problem with the declaration of membership of national minorities, and we ask that the Ministry of Administration be made aware of this because we have already asked for it, that is, that was here in the House a representative question from Minister Mlakar who said that he would give a unique guidance to all his offices or administrations on the ground which has not done so far. So we have someone in Zgreb, someone in Osijek can do it without a problem, that someone in certain counties has no chance of having the same right under the same laws because everyone interprets both the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, but also individual laws in their own way, and I ask that something be done in this direction so that we do not have minority twins, or those who can plead and those who cannot plead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65581	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65582	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Now in the end, when I listen to this bile debate about a law that didn't deserve such gallon tones and certain qualifications, it's no wonder it went on during that time, and I think this particular debate is being predicated by a particular media campaign. I have here an excerpt from the morning list where one big headline says, the HDZ pushes SDSS into the parliament and eliminates Serbian parties. It's a bombing title that's probably very intriguing and interesting for someone who's going to deal with this problem. But in the further discussion of this text, there are very different things being said. Therefore, I think the public media has contributed a lot to this debate today. We who are directly interested in passing this law had no intention, so we started over. If we have had constitutional changes and if the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has changed in the part that regulated this matter, and if in these changes, or the national minority over 1.5% has not received the possibility of having a double right to vote, it is perfectly normal that the model and modality and some modus of how elections will be conducted and for the national minority that participates over 1.5%. That model is here in front of you today for discussion. If he's the happiest, the best and most ideal time will show. But the intention was exclusively to regulate the position of a national minority that was participating over 1.5% in the election process. I couldn't agree more with my colleague Chuhnil, who said what experience they had with the elections of national minorities. The 12th electoral unit, i.e. on the minority list. That's where I'd point out, like those especially two kinds of problems we've seen. This is primarily the voter lists that must be corrected in the way the colleague said, so we have people who have not signed up and declared themselves as national minorities, who have then, out of the circumstances of which they have been identified in a certain different way, and now if they wanted to commit themselves as members of a certain national minority, this law, in particular the provision of Article 13. The law on voter lists makes it impossible for them to do so. Also, what is particularly interesting for the Serb community when it comes to the experience of going to the elections, is the fact that still in certain areas, going to the minority election model, according to a model of two types of ballots where the national minority has a particular colour of the ballots, different from the open majority list, where it must be publicly declared as a member of a particular national minority, puts such a statement in a polling post in certain environments still causing an inconvenience for voters. From some conformism, such voters then either absorb the elections or vote for other parties outside 12 constituencies or simply have some strange feeling that these elections are being held in some sort of an ambience of ghettoisation. So these are some of our experiences that preceded the adoption of this new legal text. I'd like to point out a few things here in this legal text. First, it's probably the result of this debate and it's seen as something that's the biggest dilemma and the biggest stumbling block. So I won't say that they're not correct qualifications like bagging like political trade, etc. It is perfectly normal for minorities to discuss their key problems politically with the position, i.e. with the party in power. It will be in any future case not only now. But we're not, we're happy that such a normal political dialogue is qualified in the way we've experienced it today. This law is clear to us, and it is the most important enforceable law. As he reads, it's very simple and we think he's a lifesaver, that he can be spent. It allows for a very correct political competition between all Serbian parties or some independent lists with a Serbian omen to take part in the political match. Therefore, nonsense is this sign that the HDZ thus eliminated some other parties from the political match and preferred the SDSS. I ask each party in this way to be able to consolidate itself for the next year well co-ordinated on the ground and to go to elections, to decide on which citizen list, or on which election unit they will go with their citizens' list 5%, to take into account the calculation according to the Donta that counterpart Arsen spoke and to win that one term. It doesn't say here that this mandate will be won by the SDSS. So if this is not done, if no threshold is passed and no mandate on that basis is won, then it is perfectly normal to apply the constitutional category of mandates guaranteed and that is a perfectly normal thing. And we don't mind if some other or third or fourth political option that dares to go to the election wins with a vote anymore, and that won't be a vote anymore. It will be a much bigger difference in favour of someone to win those three mandates and to be a representative in the Serbian national minority election cycle in the Croatian Parliament. We don't mind that. And this is a completely open political, clear political game, clear political competition. We also think that this law as Dr. Introductoryly, a very good qualification prevents possible abuse of independent lists, minority independent lists. That's not what I'm saying. We have similar cases at the level of local self-government when we had elections for the county, where in the town of Vukovar there were certain parties, almost all parties had in the upper part of their lists Serbian members, members of the Serb community, and both in the town and in the County of Osijek-Baranja, and then all of them used their Serbs under quotes on lists to fill that quota to guaranteed Serbian mandates in the county parliaments. Thus, it leads us to conclude that in this case too it might be. Therefore, we think that this model has just been prevented, i.e. the prevention of abuse of minority lists in this electoral model. What's most controversial here is the obvious calculation of the mandate. They've all been reading some theories here. We know that there are both proportionate systems and majority systems and absolute and relative, there are mixed systems and all these are systems that will be applied if policy says so. So, if a political will consensus or a minimum political will is created around a particular system of calculating mandates that will accept it. Therefore, in this case, we can also laminate each one of our thoughts. However, the fact is that according to the proportional system, the calculation of the mandate of those candidates who pass in the electoral units will be chosen... They will be treated as all other participants will be elected by all other parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this is not fulfilled, I said the majority system will be used for guaranteed mandates. After all, he's used himself so far and when we had an election in the minority so-called. 12 electoral units. We used the same system to calculate the mandate. Therefore, we have only combined one situation and another situation and implemented this legal solution. And I don't see that anything should be particularly controversial. Finally, I also think there is no claim that such a civil approach to the elections will lose the character of minority representation of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament. You have many situations when it comes to marriage mates of different nationalities and there is no logic that a mate of a parliamentary representative cannot trust his voice without saying that there is some logic, continuity, or the purpose of minority representation in such cases. Therefore, there should be no danger here. We are therefore going out to, therefore, members of the Serb national minority with this electoral model coming out of a more casual model of elections in the 12th electoral unit, we are going out to a public political scene in competition with all other political parties. Bonus is our constitutional right to guarantee three parliamentary deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65583	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65584	I'll rephrase my colleagues to Horvato for two things. So when we talked about being alone at the polling station, so the need to take this or that ballot was worth parliamentary elections. But in local elections, let's say the elections for the county parliaments received a single ballot. It was not necessary to make a statement and there is no big difference in the support of the parties to whom the law therefore applies to the candidate lists of the Serb national minority in relation to local and national elections. This shows, therefore, that the electoral body, as a rule, voted best in favour of the party it then wanted. After all, not so many people would then drop out of the minority polling list and take a regular ballot. The results show, therefore, that the SDSS gets about 30,000 votes plus, minus maybe 5,000 and the Election Law should be as for all other parties. So, 30,000 votes get IDS, get HDSSB and have three mandates. The electoral model can be adjusted that way. If you have 40,000 votes to win 4, if you have 50,000 votes you get 5. This should also not harm HDZ, because if they get more, then probably some other parties would get minorities, because they would be those voters who would cross over, so it's the same for them anyway. But I think that you could, therefore, fight for a model that may be more relevant to the Serb national minority, which would distribute the mandates to Dont's system proportionately and justly, and within that, all of these arguments that you said about fragmentation can be your arguments in the election campaign among your electoral bodies, to convince them that it's best to vote for you, and that would then be the democratic game that everyone else has. And as for the possibility of other peoples voting for your party, that's what's good in this law, but the question arises whether these voters should be special, in a special way presented. I don't think they should, but it's less of a pity than what it's going to get so that you finally break this... in the election post. [[You don't understand.]] And that's why this model except for the part of the calculation is still acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65585	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65586	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, when I saw that today's draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament was on the agenda, then I rejoiced. I thought that there will be far more extensive changes and materials that will finally solve some things and what the citizens are dissatisfied with, and they express dissatisfaction every day through the media, through comments and in written and electronic media, so on the dissatisfaction with the work of the Croatian Parliament and individuals in the Croatian Parliament, in particular some. However, then this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections should be called on, therefore, on election of MPs I would say to the SDSS in the Croatian Parliament, because all the time as we see it and in the debate we are discussing it. Nothing else. About the fact that the electoral law may need to be changed as much as the voting law is located exclusively on and determined on a territorial basis, so someone who is from Dubrovnik can only vote in Dubrovnik, can't vote in Slavonski Brod, not in Sikirevci, and vice versa. So you see a candidate can be run by someone from Dubrovnik like a colleague of Shuice and in the 5th electoral unit in Vukovar, Vinkovci, Požega, right? On such changes to the electoral law, I thought there would be a speech today, but apparently not. It's a very symptomatic silence from here on HDZ's side, and today they're almost not involved, there and there a few corrections of an incorrect quote, or a replica, and nothing more. Which means, that's exactly what I was saying was dissatisfaction with the work of Parliamentarians and that voting machine, so the handlifters have already decided and we here can talk about this law as much as we want, and nothing will change. It is also proof that there has actually been a bargaining proposal for law, constitutional law and amendments to the Constitution. When I say a settlement, I think that on the one hand the HDZ was involved with its coalition partner, SDSS, but in some segments and SDP. So when it was said that for, therefore, the number of representatives of the Serb national minority was set at least three, it was then conditioned that the law enters or the constitution also clauses that the diaspora, so those living Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or around the world have at least three representatives, these at least three, these up to three MPs. So I was present with the agreements that were in the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding these constitutional changes. Believe me on this, so he's not a representative of the SDP, because he then ignored the SDP president that meeting, we all remember when it was, but they were representatives of the HNS that insisted at that meeting that the diaspora only had one representative in the Assembly, one representative in the Croatian Parliament, so there were words that were our last offer, two, there are two most. Finally, there were three representatives for the diaspora agreed. So the electoral body, which is a Serb national minority, so however you figure it out, whether you give me corrections or not, was favored by the SDP, we all know that, you can... As long as you want, but here's the deal between HDZ and the SDSS that's actually in some sense their general electoral right has been ignored, and in favour of saying certain political elites from the SDSS. [[You don't understand.]] That fourth term, which would be available to everyone to tell the Serbian parties, etc., is, in fact, that bus election mandate. In fact, the mandate belongs to voters who will come from the surrounding countries of Serbia, Republika Srpska, Montenegro, and I do not know where, Bosnia and Herzegovina, will vote in the Republic of Croatia. So they will have one representative, who will be a party I don't know, who will be a member of one who will be elected to the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Serb national minority, but these three are guaranteed and guaranteed therefore to the SDSS's faithful coalition partner HDZ. When it comes to the fact that it would not be good to fragment the Serb electoral body in Croatia, it is a bit of demagogy. Whether the electorate body is Croatian on the general lists is also fragmented, which we are talking about. Well, it is not one party in the Croatian elections, in the elections for the Croatian Parliament, but tens of them. So have we fragmented the Croatian electoral body as a majority people? We did. So why would someone be privileged and one party that says they can't be fragmented? Is there no freedom of thought among Serbs? Don't they also have the right to think and think freely and decide on their representative in the Croatian Parliament? What's the word fragmentation? Next, Mr. Bauk withdrew the thesis of the premium mandate. Yes, there is that in election law theory, I would say more that it is a prime minister's term, and we know that when we say prime minister, and that the prime minister's term continues in the next period, clearly with the other prime minister or prime minister, and who will be after these elections and we will see it. I hope that not these prime ministers who have now negotiated with the legislator, above all Vice-President of the Parliament, are this system of electoral law for national minorities. Indeed, the greatest extent to say in the freedom of vote in the electoral law is reaching democracy in the world, in Europe so-called. a double right to vote. And look, the double right to vote for minorities below 1.5%, so Hungarians, Roma, Bosniaks, Czechs, Slovaks, Russian, Ukrainians, not to forget someone not to get angry, but here's a third group that doesn't have a double right to vote. Do you think Serbs as a national minority are satisfied that they do not have a double right to vote? Well, they would also like to vote for our parties, those from the general list – SDP, HDZ, HDSSB, but they can't if they give themselves up. And for that reason, this bargaining law, this law which is simply cooked and mounted in agreements, negotiations, in which I must say bestowal, and in connection with the reduction of the number of representatives from the diaspora, rejoiced and this reduction, therefore the SDP club, SDP representatives, so from 5 diaspora deputies to 3 and a maximum of 3 as stated in the words of the Constitutional Law. Therefore, the HDSSB cannot accept at all any provision of this legislative proposal. Write a new one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65587	Thank you. It's your turn, sir, if it was here, there were no replicas, okay. Mr. Joseph Leco, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65588	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives, the distinguished representative of the Croatian Government. First of all, I would like to get a detailed explanation of why such a law that speaks of the rights of national minorities, but nothing less, does not speak of the attitude of the majority people towards those minors by an urgent procedure? It's simply unacceptable. Secondly, this issue should be discussed by principles and principles, not by the calculator interests of who will get more representatives and who will be closer to the behaviour of the government. In fact, no law - offering solution can be good for national minorities unless the solution is widely supported by the majority people. Nor can politics be achieved, Croatia's policy towards national minorities if it is extremely responsible, consistently and persistently not radioed by the majority people and the official state policy. And what is the purpose of this official Croatian policy when it comes to minorities in the Republic of Croatia, including this law? Is the goal of national minorities being integrated into Croatian society? Which I would support. Or is it the goal to isolate or homogenize national minorities because of party interest? Such a policy is harmful for both national minorities and Croatian society as a whole. Such laws, of course, that no one should support because they would be opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This is really about solutions that should be found for a national minority, unfortunately either for joy or I don't know how, the Serb national minority in Croatia has special legal solutions. Because of these special legal solutions, we are also looking for a special solution for the selection of representatives of the national minority in the Croatian Parliament. What kind of model is it? The model indeed offers disproportionate representation of political options operating in the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia, disproportionate. A majority model is being offered, so one political option among the Serbs in Croatia as a single vote national minority will be given 3 MPs. Other parties that in Croatia have 5, as far as I know, which have Serbian omens and which have in their statutes to advocate the exercise of the rights of Serbs as national minorities will not get representation in the Croatian Parliament. I don't think it's principled or politically just law. In this regard, if it is added that Serbian parties established as Serbian want to become both general civil parties in Croatia and compete on regular lists in the Croatian parliamentary elections as well as SDP and HDZ, with HDZ and the SDSS in the legal and political sense having the same status. They have a national omen. The solution offered now would be interesting how a party can simultaneously go with a list in civil terms in the ordinary procedure for civil votes in the same constituency and still be represented as the protector of the national minority. What is a schizophrenic situation in the Assembly at the same time to represent the citizens of the Republic of Croatia no matter what nationality they belong to and at the same time protect the interests of national minorities that are absolutely specific. And that model is now being offered. Now that's the model you're offering. If we add this to this, the non-discipline in this bill is obvious when it comes to representatives of the so-called. Diaspora or real diaspora in the Croatian Parliament, where the legislator, or legislator, acknowledges that there are different political options and different political interests in the diaspora, and regulates it in orderly in the draft law. So there are different political options in the three representatives of the diaspora to represent them in the Croatian Parliament at the same time, and it is a special or significant national community in the Republic of Croatia that has its own parties with a national sign, no proportionate representation is allowed and that there are different political options between the community. It's simply an unprincipled attitude, and we can't support it any more for principle than for calculative reasons. It would be very interesting to hear the responder's response to what will happen or what solutions will be made if one of the parties in the constituency decided not to go with the list for representatives, for representatives of the national minority, but rather with the general list but to represent itself as a protector among their compatriots and to ask to vote for the general list, that is possible. But it's already in the sphere of calculations, I wouldn't want to calculate but to do a principled solution. It is known that an additional voting right could be addressed, regardless of the percentage of the participation of the Serb national minority or citizens of the Republic of Croatia of the Serbian Nationality in the Croatian Society or the electoral body, that they too have an additional right to vote, without disturbing representation and representation in the Croatian Parliament. Those principled solutions were better than what we're doing right now, it's calculating to who and which party is more suited to who's going to give it to. It is not minority policy, it is electoral mathematics, and I would like to, and I hope that all MPs would believe that we have a consistent policy of the Croatian state towards national minorities where we would build their integration into Croatian society with full interests in all policy options and when it comes to that, I must commend the SDP that it has never been disputed in the SDP that everyone is welcome to support the social democratic values, from the first day whether it was war or not. This principle must also be shown in the Law by election, not by favouring who will be given a representative mandate, so the party's interest is put ahead of the community's interests. Such solutions do not bring good to national minorities, nor to Croatian society as a whole. The comparison with the election of other MPs is interesting, other national minorities, another sentence, which in the Croatian society has below 1.5%, also has a problem with who will represent in the Croatian Parliament, and since a group of national minorities is not homogeneous, there are in that group who get some from one representative who can choose their own representative, thus marginalising those national minorities who are also in the Constitution and equal, that they can never reach representatives in the Croatian Assembly if there is no good will of other representatives of national minorities, this is not taken into account at all which is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65589	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65590	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leko, in most cases, I would agree with your presentation, however, and I do not understand why this is going by emergency procedure as the Final Proposal of the Law, and I agree mainly with you that it is actually electoral mathematics as you have said yourself, more harshly in a trade with unlimited blackmail potential, and by the way that the asymmetric constitution was once spoken, as well as this asymmetric law on the rights of national minorities in the Electoral Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65591	Thank you. Answer Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65592	I am convinced that citizens will be able to recognize this mathematics and that they will not allow their interests to be manipulated through the Election Law and that they will sanction it within the framework of the elections. I have nothing else to do now but hope for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65593	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65594	My dear colleague, Leko, you have been polymizing about whether in a group where there are larger or smaller minorities, whether or not it can be or can't be, or even going after the fact that a small minority has no chance of getting a representative. I think the practice refutes it, because it was just a fellow pimp who was already a German minority representative, who from one of the smaller minorities within the degroup that managed to get a mandate. It all depends on how complicated one minority is, how many candidates are going with it, so every minority when it goes to the elections must also be concerned about whether they want to be a winner or break down within a minority with a lot of candidates, which reduces the possibility of getting their own MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65595	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65596	Thank you very much, dear colleague Chuhnil. I think you confirmed my thesis with that you said that practice was denied in one case, that with other cases you didn't tell me, and I talked to a lot of representatives of minorities from the Croatian society who told me that problem, I didn't experience it on my skin but as if I had experienced it. But it's very important to point out such a possibility and avoid it, that's the meaning of my observation was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65597	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras. He's gone. And five minutes final Mr Furio Radin on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65598	Thank you very much. Today, representatives of the national minorities here in this House experienced rationally reasoned debates which were, and a whole series of insults and that is also part of the tradition. Insults have come to the united left and right, and that's recently a tradition. This is not deserved by national minorities in Croatia or by their representatives. It is not possible, at least, that in the last two decades, every time it comes to national minorities, especially some national minorities, it is seen as irrational and national archetypes, as well as endemic nationalisms. Likewise, when negotiating between parties within a coalition, even when negotiating chairs, no one calls it bagging or corruption or even trade, but when much less than that is negotiated by representatives of national minorities immediately talks about trades, installation of corruption, and I don't know what else. That's what we won't agree to, because then we'd accept that we're less valuable than the others. We call on opposition representatives to accept this model because it is good for all representatives of national minorities, so it can be good and then for them, it can, I don't have to, it can. We will believe that their remarks are constructive or as Mr Leko said before, that the majority of the people must take care of minorities, which I agree with, when most of the opposition parties will indeed apply this and when the concern for the national minorities in this House will be systematic from most opposition parties, and not only to catch us in some bad models or solutions that are not. And finally, the premium system as I said before if we can call it that, but I think Bauk already came out of Croatia and that's your contribution, which I agree with because it's not a bad thing. The premium system has already been incorporated into Croatian legislation, it is called "Dont" and has been incorporated into all legislation and discriminated against all small parties below 5% in a way that their votes do not go to those who have earned but those they have not earned by some proportion of non-profit. So in the premium system, don't talk about something that hasn't been seen here or anything that hasn't been accepted in other societies. As you know in many societies, it's highly accepted. So one recommendation, don't think that I'm the one who pours the advice, you don't have to listen at all. It is nice to go to elections without arrogance to get a large number of votes and not have to argue, negotiate with others. It's nice to think so, but it doesn't usually fit the fact of reality. I don't give that recommendation to anyone. I just said that, so let them hang in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65599	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65600	I'm correcting Mr. Radin's incorrect claim that minority representatives and minorities are not trading with the ruling and that it can't be called that. In fact, there's a very bizarre example when Mr. Kasum Ćana sued the government that he owed $350,000 to organize the World Roma Day in Rome, and that she paid him 250 grand and that he never got it back looks like he's never going to get it back. That's one example. And the second example is eclative in our Slavonia with a million-and-a-half kuna is financed by the phantom or non-existent community of the Vukovar municipalities or the SAO of Eastern Slavonia somehow.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65601	Thank you. And five minutes is final. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I reject any claims that suggest that the SDP's representatives insulted anyone, that their rhetoric was anti-human or something. Based on the Statute, the programme and the action of the SDP, it was never present that someone was being insulted on a national basis and that it was ever an anti-minor policy and it would not be in the future. We have criticised one solution that we hold to be bad, that it is unfair and undemocratic. We have criticised one or two parties of the ruling coalition and have not deviated from anything that is not common in parlemantic practice. We insinuated and said that if we stay on this solution, we should see that this is an example of political corruption and we remain on it. That doesn't have to be true, but it can be discussed in any case. And it's not an insult if you say it. The fact that this proposal is the fruit of a coalition agreement which HDZ reluctantly but still accepted for their known reasons confirms that, apart from the representatives of the club, none of the HDZ deputies participated in the debate, nor did the government representative ever refer to our attacks against the law. So you wanted this to go quietly, so nobody would say anything about this and go to the election, and we wouldn't let you do it. And if this is our fault, and if it is our sin, we fully accept it, responsible for our voters of Croatia, Serbia, Italy, Hungary and all other nationalities in the Republic of Croatia, because the SDP party for which people vote is independent of nationality. It will be our work in the future. After all, the government's rule practices also punish those municipalities with Serbia's majority, in which SDP beat the SDSS, which is why, for example, Donji Lapac and Vojnic cannot get money from the budget, and some other municipalities can. So there's no difference for us here at this point. The political practice and the scratch of rule is almost the same, and how it's going to be in the future we'll see. We repeat, we will give the amendment and we will not vote for this law in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65603	Thank you. We have one correction, Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65604	It is an incorrect claim made by the representatives of the HDZ Club and the Government by participating in the debate in the way they participated because the ruling coalition submitted this bill. The ruling coalition consists of MPs and HDZ, and the HSS, and the SDSS. Therefore, when a representative of the HDZ Club spoke, it was enough, and then it cannot be taken because he no longer spoke, that it speaks of both the quality and the political position of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65605	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the Government, State Secretary Paul Maticic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65606	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. I would just like to stress that from this debate, and the discussions on working bodies we could see that in theory there are different electoral models that are prescribed in different countries. Every electoral law and every electoral model in both our country and the world can be estimated to have good sides and there are shortages in each of these models and there are no standards. So each country is determined for an election model that is suitable for the development of democracy and political relations in a particular country. For the electoral legislation it is important that legal elections can be passed under the Electoral Law and secondly, that the electoral rules be established on a timely basis so that they can be accessed... a period from lawmaking to choice itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We think that this final bill ensures that legal elections are held, while at the same time ensuring sufficient time to know the electoral rules on holding parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65607	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It was an emergency procedure, p.z. No. 670th Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: First, on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. No. In 670 a debate was held in the first reading. Secondly, all objections and proposals from the debate will be addressed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. If the proposer wants to show himself about these conclusions, go ahead. Mr. Paul Matice, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65609	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The government does not accept the proposed conclusion, as the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament goes to first reading. This is about amendments to the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which are conditional on amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and amending and supplementing the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which are incorporated and elaborated on those amendments, which now makes up one rounded whole. We are also bound by the deadlines for the adoption of electoral legislation for elections in the Croatian Parliament, so other than this law it is necessary to adopt the Law on Election Units, and the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65610	In the name of Mrs. Opačić's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65611	Mr. President, thank you very much, since we are the promoters of this conclusion and that we have now heard the reasoning of the legislator of the Law, which is why you insist on the urgency of the procedure. Namely, the arguments that you have made simply deny this wish that this must be voted today in a single reading. If you are going to change election units by the 3rd month and you are again engaged in electoral engineering and you are significantly changing the conditions for elections, I see no reason not to discuss this law in the second reading beyond the New Year when the spring session of the Croatian Parliament begins. So you yourself have made arguments that this law can go into two readings and we continue to insist on it because it would be only fair. This Law is much broader in its amendments than what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines and because it regulates conditions in elections which is not a small matter, it would be very good to discuss this Law once more in a second reading because there is time for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65612	Thank you. We heard a proposal from the SDP Club's representative, so I'm going to put their proposal on the vote. So, who's for the conclusions proposed here by the SDP Representatives' Club that I just read. Let it be included and we vote on the SDP's conclusions to go to another reading. Score. This SDP conclusion proposal was not accepted, it voted 42 for, nothing abstention, and 80 against. I would like Mr. Paul Maticic to make a statement on the amendment submitted by the SDP Club, IDS, and HNS HSU, which refers to Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65613	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs at the Croatian Parliament. The government does not accept the proposed amendment, namely as I have already said before, it is about amendments to the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament that are conditional on amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which have been incorporated and developed certain amendments. When establishing the draft law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considered several variations related to Article 10. The proposal for a law on guaranteed mandates of national minorities participating in the population of the Republic of Croatia with more than 1.5% of the population and opted for a model as proposed in the draft law which considers it appropriate and possible to elaborate that provision of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65614	Thank you. Who wants on behalf of the amendment promoter? Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65615	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposed amendments by SDP, HNS, HSU and IDS suggested that the Serbian national minority's guaranteed mandates be implemented in a proportionate manner as it is in all other election units from 1st to 11th election unit. The way the Government suggested in theory is called the premium system. The way proposed by the government of the premiums is for their coalition partner, the SDSS, completely inappropriate for the election legislation of the Republic of Croatia and has never happened to reward one party with other mandates that do not have coverage in the votes. Such a law is a bad solution, political corruption. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65616	We will vote on this amendment by electronic means. Since this is important, this law also requires 77 MPs to vote. Please, who is for the amendment of the SDP, HNS, HSU and IDS Clubs that the government does not accept? Let's get involved and vote on the amendment proposed. The result? This amendment was not accepted, it voted 42 in favour, no abstentions and 79 against. I would like to stress that, on the basis of Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require a semi-half majority of all MPs, so at least 77. I am voting on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get involved and vote on the law. The result? This law was adopted by most votes, 79 for, 3 abstentions and 38 against. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we move to the next item of the agenda - Final bill on amendments and addition of the Law on State Attorney's Office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 671 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Department of Justice, Mr. Damir Kontrec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65618	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. You have before you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, with a final proposal for a law. This law contains a certain change and addition. The amendment refers to a time since new conditions for the appointment of municipal state lawyers will apply. Namely, given the fact that the first generation of members of the State School for Judicial Officials will finish their education at the end of 2012 instead of in the provisions of 194, 195. On 1 January 2014, it should be noted that the new conditions will apply from 1 January 2013. As regards the supplement, the supplement applies to Article 156a, which prescribes the transfer of a State lawyer or deputy in the event of the abolition or re-shuffle of the State's Attorney's Office. I note that we also have such a provision in the Law on Courts, and this is what we need in view of the upcoming rationalisation of the network of state attorneys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65619	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS and HSU club, Ms. Danica Hursa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65620	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the European acquis. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office was adopted in 2009 and has so far had two amendments and must be amended because they remained in force in this law on the provisions of the article which prescribe the appointment of deputy state attorneys and those provisions remain in force until 31 December 2013. The 2009 State Attorney's Office Act prescribes new conditions for the appointment of a municipal state attorney. A person appointed to this duty must have completed a State School for Judicial Officials. The application of new conditions shall take place from 1 January 2014. In Article 195, point (a) is replaced The 2009 Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office amended the application of the provisions on the appointment of deputy state lawyers and the 2010 Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office stipulates that the State Attorney's Council for Candidates, first appointed as Deputy State Attorney, will carry out the procedure for the verification of knowledge. This provision will apply until 31 December 2012, i.e. by the time the first generation of state school graduates for judicial officials will finish this school and will be named under new conditions. In view of the different application and validity of certain provisions concerning the appointment of deputy state lawyers, it is not possible to initiate and implement the procedure for their appointment. It is therefore necessary to amend this by an emergency procedure. This proposal also provides for the transfer of a state lawyer or deputy state attorney in the event of the abolition or reshuffle of the State's attorney. Some things have been regulated in this law and nomotechnics. For all these reasons, the HNS-HSU club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65621	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65622	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office by emergency procedure, respecting all these amendments that have taken place and which then necessarily and subsequently bind themselves and the amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. However, we draw attention to the amendment to the provisions of Article 4 or Article 156, i.e. the new Article 156a, which speaks about what is the work of the State's attorneys or their deputies in the event of the abolition or reshuffle of the State's Attorney's Office, and what is considered to be a reconstruction, i.e. the merger or separation of the State's Attorney's Office. However, in the light of the consistent application of the Montreal Convention on the Full Independence of Judicial Officials, it is not only about the play of the word, but also in light of the consistent application of the Montreal Convention on the Full Independence of Judicial Officials, etc. the magistrates to whom both judges and state lawyers enter and where one of the fundamental principles other than their independence is considered to be the same as the basis for their unmovableness. It used to be called immobility. Today it's called unmovable. Because in our legal practice, i.e. to apply both in the trial and in the work of state attorneys in the distant past, but also in many countries there was no exception to Croatia even when it was within the former state that it often dealt with the unsurprised and those who consistently applied the law in a way that moved them from one state's attorneyship to another. So that's a very sensitive issue, and that's exactly what the provisions say for both civil servants and tenants. They, having greater responsibility, should be given even greater protection to judicial officials. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. in paragraph 1, which states that in the event of the removal or reshuffle of the State Attorney's Office, the Council will relocate a State Attorney, or a Deputy State Attorney to the State's Attorney's Office of the same degree. Does this mean that a county will be abolished, and the state's attorney's office is already being abolished. So, in one imagine in a southern part of the State's Attorney's Office in the southern part of Croatia, I pray the answer because it's very important for us at the SDP club. Does this mean that he will move to some state's attorney's office in northern Croatia. It's not supposed to happen in any way, because it's not his fault why some State's Attorney's office is being abolished, regardless of whether it's called a reshuffle, without redecorating a merger or a separation, because it's the same thing in the end. He doesn't have a job in that place anymore. Therefore, as resolved by the Law on Courts in these cases very precisely, the same rules should apply to judicial officials. Therefore, for both judges and state lawyers, this provision should be complemented, that it means the nearest State Attorney's Office, because everything else would mean speculation, would mean the possibility of a chicive treatment of those who are unorthodox to the system. Therefore, in order not to occur at all in a theoretical sense or in a normative sense at all, such an option should be explicitly defined. Since it is the urgency of the procedure, therefore our business opportunities give us the right and which, of course, we do not oppose the urgency of the procedure. In fact, we support the urgency of the procedure, but it is an opportunity in business terms to say something about the State's Attorney's Office itself that is now at the heart of our public. All eyes are on that body. Of course, very soon it will be against the judiciary itself in a narrow sense of the word. This is also an opportunity to say the relationship between the State's Attorney's Office and the police, which is in some way resolved, i.e. the new Law on Criminal Procedure, which the State's Attorney's Office has put at the heart of the pre-trial procedure and the investigation procedure is now in the hands of the State's Attorney's Office. But the U.S. Attorney's office doesn't have the kind of operation that makes it logical and natural for the police to have things at their disposal, i.e. regular forces in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the State Attorney's Office has binding orders, therefore, that certain actions at its disposal, the new Criminal Procedure Act, or any investigative actions, should be carried out by the police. It doesn't make sense and there wasn't enough power for the government to make a stronger step as it has been resolved in all models that have such a model, and an increasing number of countries have such a model to investigate... It means that she came no longer into the hands of the court, but that she fell under the authority of the State's Attorney's Office and the police. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in that sense, when the State Attorney's Office has binding orders to the police, then both the police and the regular forces must be responsible in that part, it is logical that the system would be rounded up and defined system and responsibilities for any failures, that for such procedures, i.e. to carry out such tasks or non-execution, it would be directly to the State's attorney, not to the Director of the Police or the Minister of the Interior. In this concept of development and reform of criminal trials, we just had such a concept because everything is pointless because obstructions can happen. We often had an observation when we pointed out this when the Law on Criminal Procedure was passed that this would not come. We need to have a legal solution that will make it impossible, not because someone is going to act one way or the other. However, this has not yet occurred, and there are still some misunderstandings and some misunderstandings not so much in the so-called items, but in the daily work behind the light stage, which are the subject of the hard work of the State's attorney and police. We are saying this not to degrade any work, but simply to raise the system of responsibility to a higher level, because in the final line in the new position of the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Office is responsible for the outcome of the procedure. When it comes to this one responsibility, we at the SDP club can't help but remember the necessary changes we unfortunately had. They've been suspended. We believe that we should have the strength to find in the changes now made and the ruling coalition of the Penal Code two brutal crimes that will allow for better work of the State's attorney and the judiciary as a whole. But on the other hand, which will increase their responsibility but also give them greater authority. In that sense, it was not our rareness, and even in the recent past, that political parties simply waged war against each other with criminal charges, that for many criminal charges which proved to be unfounded but false no one answered, that we still have a criminal act of false reporting. However, we also have a tendently false application without anyone answering for it. It degrades only the state's attorney's office, the police themselves. In the end, it de-concentrates them from their basic task of acting on the basis of suspicion. As a result, it is necessary to introduce a criminal offence against laws, obstructions, in particular obstructions of justice, which will, above all, make it impossible to introduce false representations that are being conducted during the proceedings. False statements that are compromised by both the police and the State's Attorney's office, which must then waste time precious in denying such allegations without anyone answering for it. We are also aware that the public has the right to be familiar with the work of the State Attorney's Office, with the work of the judiciary as a whole, to be informed to the public in due time, but that this information can never and must not go to the expense of the efficiency of the procedure. Such protection has the judiciary, or courts, but it is not the State's Attorney's Office. Likewise, it would be necessary to have not this existing criminal act, which bears the name of coercion towards a judicial officer, but a obstruction of justice. So that the public should be informed within the limits within which they can and should be informed, but that protection, above all, of the interests of the investigation, because all of this god-awful intensity that the public would like to know, the public wants justice to be served, goes to the hands of some who go in an indirect or even direct way to benefit the suspects, the defendants, so that they do not all so that they are not ultimately convicted despite the evidence that they are pressuring them. On the other hand, it should be seen what is wrong with this bill, i.e. the incrimination of violations of the law by a judicial officer. So that such an increased authority, but also increased protection in their work, is adequately protected, but also sanctioned from any abuse. So where false reports are being filed, where false actions are being raised, it can not only be a free assessment, but something that cannot even be logically concluded. So here we insist that these two incriminations are found in the new Penal Code so that these changes that we are now discussing, which we agree on, we support them, we see here in the Croatian Parliament, therefore, and when these changes happen, so that this law can truly be revived. In short, the whole meaning of these changes, but also of all those judicial ones in the broadest sense of the words we had, is the ultimate goal of not being convicted innocent, but also of the blame not to escape justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65623	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65624	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneys, in an emergency procedure, for the reason that we believe that this law should be regulated in a way that would be applicable without delaying the appointment of deputy state attorneys in the State's Attorney's Office when there is a need. This is why we support this nomotechnical arrangement so that the transitional and final provisions of the offices in such a way as not to be applied at the same time to double provisions, i.e. as I said there would be no obstacles to the appointment, and all on the grounds that amendments and additions were previously provided and a new way of appointment of deputy state attorneys, and those who have to after the completion of the state school for judicial officials, which is a condition for appointment in a new way. But until then, since the state school has been going on for two years, it is therefore necessary to ensure the continuity of the appointment and to arrange it with these transitional and final provisions, but of course on the condition that candidates who are first appointed as deputy state attorneys will be subject to the process of verifying knowledge. As far as this further amendment is concerned, or I would say supplementals, which is to address the matter of the schedule of state attorneys, deputy state attorneys, in the event of the abolition and reshuffle of the State's Attorney's Office, which says that the state's attorneys will move to the State's Attorney's Office of the same degree, the same question was raised here at clubs. I have to say that this text of the law on, in relation to the State's Attorney's Office fully in line with the terms of the Law on Courts, which is why it's not said here that, in a united or newly established state's attorney's office, it's just saying in the State's Attorney's Office of the same degree, it's precisely for the sake of equating sentences. It is true that there are international documents in relation to judicial officials who speak of their immovability, however, with one exception, unless it is about the abolition of a particular judicial body, or the reshuffle, and therefore it is also said in this law that it is exclusively here to be re-edited or abolished, therefore quite in line with the international document on judicial officials. As far as some general protection is concerned, this is already a very, very, very high protection so that judges or state attorneys can't be threatened or threatened in this way, as it is said. I must point out that the judge and the state's attorney who was once appointed to the post remains on it unless he is held accountable or willingly remains on it until the 70th year of his life. I can say that none of the other professions, nor the civil servants mentioned here or their movement within 50 kilometers, enjoy such protection, therefore also for civil servants, but also for all workers as it is said in the real sector or economy of such protection, there is neither far away, and then there are all other safeguard provisions of labour law, but here again I stress that nothing has been injured by this international document, because it is the reorganization and abolition and only in this case are they moving, or the schedule to a newly established State Attorney's Office. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65625	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Ivo Grbic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65626	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the State Attorney's Office with the final proposal for a law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in an emergency parliamentary procedure. The proposal falls within the category of laws that our legislation is in line with the EU acquis and should therefore be supported by the urgency of the procedure. The Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on State Attorney's Office in 2009. The same law has been amended twice. The basic reason why the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes these amendments is the fact that due to the different application and validity of certain provisions concerning the appointment of a deputy state attorney, it is not possible to initiate or implement the procedures for their appointment, and therefore it is proposed to amend Articles 194 and 195. Law on State's Attorney's Office. They shall be left in force by the provisions of the Law on the State Attorney's Office of 2001 with amendments 2006, 2007 and 2008 relating to the appointment of deputy state attorneys with the effect that those provisions will apply until 1 January 2013 when they come out of the first generation of completed State School for Judicial Officials and when the election of new provisions will be possible. In practice, removing the existing problem of the appointment of deputy state attorneys, this amendment also intervenes in a provision under which the number of points set out in the State School of Judicial Officers' List must be taken in order to delay its application. On the basis of this, I would like to point out that I will support the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65627	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State Damir Contrec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65628	Your Honor, Mr. President, I thank you for your discussion and for your support of the law. I am convinced that the newly elected composition of the State Attorney's Council, in which the majority will be made up of state lawyers, will be represented by representatives of the Croatian Parliament and will be represented by representatives of the academic community, shall represent a sufficient dam so that there will be no chicane in practice. We also accept, on behalf of the Government, the amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee to Article 4 of the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65629	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Before we continue, and today we don't have a break, I'll explain why. We think that according to this consolidated agenda, we should go to point 7, that means by the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Children's Foundation, and then today's session of the Parliament would end in order to have only a vote tomorrow at 11 o'clock. If all this were to be true, which I'm talking about, so you'd ask the clubs to make an effort to end this marathon session at 11 o'clock with which I apologize once more, but if we hadn't had this session without a break, we wouldn't have 36 points left to do, but we might have 80. So, we've all sacrificed a little bit, I thank you all. We lost one day, though, but plus 10 days if it was a break and one day asking the government a question. Anyway, we couldn't secure it because here's why we kept filling the agenda with new points and now we're going to keep saying about 35 points that we're not going to be able to discuss. So I'm asking you tomorrow at 11:00 to secure the quorum for the vote. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 671. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office was adopted by a majority of votes, 112 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65632	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, let me present to you the Law on State Property Management, which is in the second reading, means the final draft of the law. This final proposal of the Law on State Property Management proposes to create basic assumptions for ownership structure, the establishment of scope and the principle of governance of state assets that arises in the form of shares and business shares in companies as well as in the form of real estate. The objectives of this law are the establishment of an appropriate legal institutional and supervisory framework, effective and responsible management of state assets, full and correct recording and the visibility of the system of governance of state assets, resulting in significant financial and economic benefits. This law covers assets in the form of shares and business shares and properties owned by the Republic of Croatia, including today's assets of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which becomes the property of the Republic of Croatia. Maybe I should explain. Property in part of the business stakes and shares as well as part of entered real estate and building land which, according to the Privatisation Act, was not entered into the underlying capital, and only that part of the land, has been registered to the Republic of Croatia for about 30 million square metres in the last 2 years. All that property becomes owned by this law by the Republic of Croatia. This law defines the principles in the management of state property, which is the principles of the public. I would like to stress that it is the property of the Republic of Croatia and that it is very important for the management of state property to respect the principles of the public because it is the property of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The principle of predictability means the principle that we want to manage state property in a well-designed and predictable way. Then the principle of efficiency, which means that at the lowest cost, we achieve the greatest benefit, and the principle of responsibility, I would say, by managing the care of a good economy. This law defines three key acts in the management of state property and this management strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament for a period of four years as a strategic act. Then, the management plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a strategy and this is an operational annual management plan for state assets. The third is the report on the implementation of the management plan as a basic document to measure the effectiveness of management. So, every year, the agency will submit a report on the implementation of the management plan, will be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will forward this report to the Croatian Parliament. This Law provides for the establishment of a State Property Management Agency that takes over the activities of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Central State Office for State Property Management. The Agency will be responsible for making available the assets of the Republic of Croatia in the form of shares and business shares in companies, real estates and shares and business shares owned by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, and the State Insurance Agency for Savings Deposits, which have been acquired through the privatisation and resolution of banks and other institutions and legal persons whose founder is the Republic of Croatia. This law establishes the Agency as an out-of- budget user and is financed from the receipt of the property management achieved. The Agency will have an administrative board of 7 members appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and a director, and two deputy directors appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Governing Council. Here I would like to emphasise that this is one of the major changes in relation to first reading for the reason that the authority over the property of the Republic of Croatia is in accordance with the Law on Property and other rights within the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For these reasons, this Law defines the Government as responsible for managing state property to appoint an administrative council of ministers. The norms of this Act governing the ways and rules available to state property have been established in a modern way, and closer to the conditions of availability will be established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its regulation. One of the most significant newspapers of this Act is the establishment of a full record of the property of the Republic of Croatia. The Register of State Property creates assumptions that the entire state property is finally listed in the form of ownership shares in companies, all properties as well as building land, agricultural land as well as forest land. The establishment of the Agency would allow efficient and rapid decision-making in the management of state assets through the evaluation of benefits and costs, properly set up the information system and supervision of business, control and measurement of performance and transparency of business. It is important to stress that the adoption of this Act ceases to apply the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, the Law on Privatisation and the Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and ceases to exist the Privatisation Fund and the Central State Office for the Management of State Property. Also when we talk about a particular newspaper of this Act, I would like to highlight one important newspaper, that is that this law regulates and enables the consolidation and restructuring of companies in difficulties that are in majority state-owned, which is why the state in a responsible way wants to show interest, responsible management and management of its assets on the one hand, but also sensitivity and care for the rescue of each job. The proposed law must be significant immediately from privatisation and this is a new way of managing state property. I would say that by adopting this law, we conclude a period of conversion and privatisation and the existence of certain institutions. I would not like to speak too critically about these laws here, I would like to stress that there were no prescribed methods and modality in the conversion of social property, that experience was gained by working, and unfortunately in the whole process there were certain gaps. Mistakes that, unfortunately, some have abused. But precisely because of the importance, importance of the problem and changes to the Constitution, it is regulated that the malversions created during the privatisation process do not go out of date. I believe that this Law creates a new chapter, in the management of state property, and that through the Agency for the Management of State Property and through the entire Register of State Property, we will create assumptions about the most effective way of managing state property. This law in history will go to the Croatian Privatisation Fund, an institution that has implemented or engaged in the implementation of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, an institution that has, with all the good that it has done but has a lot of negative connotations. I don't want to talk about negative connotations here today, but I want to point out something that may be less familiar, which is that this institution is some good stuff. So here in the last two years is the Croatian Privatisation Fund through its services and, of course, create assumptions that the State Attorney's Office can enroll over 30 million square meters of building land that has not entered the fundamental capital of companies. It's a significant venture and I'd say one significant value. But honestly, I'm happy that there have been assumptions that we are going through a new law to form new forms of governance, management and management of state property with new institutions. And therefore, respected ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I believe you will give this law support mainly because it was well received in the first reading. We've made every effort to make the law as good as possible, as effective and as transparent as possible. However, during the debate, we received a report from the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee with an amendment submitted, which I would say in a nomotechnical sense corrects the interpretation of certain legal provisions, and I would like, on behalf of the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, that we fully accept amendments to the Committee on Legislatives, because they, as I have already said in a nomotechnical sense, are significantly correcting the statement. And I thank you for your efforts to the members of the Legislative Committee and for the full attention they have given in the debate over this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65633	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And he's the first Mr. Branko Bacic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65634	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Law on State Property Management for the reason we hold that this final proposal for a law is a significant improvement compared to the text of the law that was in the first reading, although even then we supported this bill. But we appreciate that this final bill has greatly respected the proposals that the HDZ Club and many committees have made in relation to the text that was in the first reading. We will also support the fact that the management of state property is, and precisely in the manner in which this final proposal of the law provides for one of the key reforms of the entire public sector and what properly manages state property enables a significant increase in income in held budget with the basis of concessions, leases, leases or any other way of managing social property, which, as I said, provides significant resources in the state budget, and which, just now, for the very reason that the overall good and quality management of state property has not been the case. Furthermore, state property represents the property of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the management of state property as provided for by this law is now becoming more transparent, more meaningful, more responsible, more efficient and for this reason we will certainly support the final proposal of this law. What we can say and what characterizes the management of state property so far is the fact that most of this state property was managed by several state bodies, as Mr. Minister also mentioned, on the one hand by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, was the Central State Property Management Office, whether it was managed by the State Agency for Rehabilitation of Banks, whether it was managed by individual institutions such as the Pension Insurance Office, Employment Office, the Health Insurance Office, the Croatian Forests, etc. So according to this proposal for this law, which now unites the gross of state assets at the Central Asset Management Agency, certainly a significant step towards the existing situation is. The second essential feature, which shows the current management of state assets, is that there is no excessive overall management strategy of state property, and as a rule, this management of state property depends on how individual state bodies in whose work is part of the management of state assets, in their own way, are considering the overall management of state assets. The lack of protection of state property can also characterise the current management of state property and for the reasons and fragmentation of all those tenants who are in one or another state property management. Furthermore, unsettled property-legal relations on the entire state property have led to a significant uptake of large-scale land and real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, while at the same time such unsettled property-legal relations have also contributed certainly to stopping a number of investments in the economy, in energy, in transport infrastructure. And I would venture to say that such a bill or a solution offered by this law will greatly help to realise those 30 capital investment projects proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as one of the measures of a faster and more effective economic recovery in the Republic of Croatia. That's why the model so far wasn't good. In this respect, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has, on several occasions, indicated this law through a number of measures, and in that part, the adoption of this law is one of the measures for the implementation of the economic recovery programme through which the number of state bodies, institutions, institutes, agencies, central state offices is reduced, and then it is more efficient for me to stress in particular that it is both more rational and reduces the costs incurred as a result of the operations of many state bodies. What is the significance of this law? Mr. Minister said the important elements of the law itself, but what is in any case one of the most important newspapers of this law is the establishment of a central agency now taking over the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which takes over the affairs of the Central State Property Management Office. It is the law that sets out the transitional provisions for the dates in which it must be united through the central state agency of operations so far carried out by the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Central State Office. So, the gross property is now under one cap, if I may say so, and the central asset management agency and it, according to the entire property of the Republic of Croatia, becomes a legal representative, which is very important. And as little as possible, the basis of the contract that will be signed with the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks and Contracts, which will be signed by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, practically on their behalf, has their property. That is exactly how the desire and intention to manage in one place is achieved now most of the state of property. It is clear that this law could not unite the property that was given to special laws in the jurisdiction and in the business of certain state agencies, such as the Croatian forests, and in this sense Croatian forests continue to operate forest land. Local self-government units continue to manage or have the right to dispose of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia and local self-government units on the grounds of the Agricultural Land Act. The maritime well-being remains clear in the counties, municipalities, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Resolute Ministry of the Sea. So that part of the property remains under the management of certain state bodies, but the majority of that property is now under the management of this state agency, which will now be able to manage the property independently, clearly on the basis of the important document provided for by this law, which is the State Property Management Strategy, which will be adopted by the Croatian Parliament in time of 4 years and which strategy will give clear instructions to the State Agency in which direction and how to manage state property. What is also good is that, on a proposal from the Government, the Agency will adopt annual plans for state property management, which will then allow in the process to determine whether or not it is implemented and to the extent that the Property Management Strategy itself is implemented, but how and how the annual agency fulfils all those conditions, criteria, objectives and tasks it will receive after the Croatian Parliament adopts and the State Property Management Strategy, but also after adopting the Annual Management Plan for State Property. I was in the first reading when on behalf of the club I made certain remarks on this text of the law, especially I referred to the fact that there was not a full register of state property at the time. Now it seems to me that this is better solved and it is a good thing that the first time this law is passed, and I believe that it will be adopted because it is an extremely important law, a full register of state property will be established in the Republic of Croatia. We are not even aware of how much for the development of the economy, for the quality of state property management means the establishment of this single register of state property when a record of the entire state property will be made in one place, and I think that this is a very important provision of this law and we need to seek that the deadlines provided for the establishment of this single register of state property as soon as possible. What is also very important and what I consider to be one of the best newspapers in relation to first reading, these are the funds provided by the management of state property, which, according to this proposal, become the means of the state budget. However, 50% of the funds that represent excess revenues in relation to expenditures automatically become the assets of the Agency for State Property Management, and the remaining 50% of the funds that represent excess revenues compared to expenditures can also be forwarded to this agency by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to contribute to further and better quality management of state assets. What does that mean? This means that the agency itself with certain resources which it will now be able to dispose of, which will be the basis of state property management, will be able to use to further improve the management of state assets in the restructuring of certain companies in the Republic of Croatia, enable the preservation of jobs, enable new employment in the Republic of Croatia, and thus will now be used by means of funds that will be made available from the management of state assets to remain the agency so that it can continue to be used for better quality management of state assets. Also, the good news of this law which we certainly support is the fact that it now allows the agency to acquire new state property, whether these are business shares or shares in companies or the purchase of real estate which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, which so far has not been the case in the existing legislation. And that's also one big step in relation to the current state of government property management. So, for all these reasons that I have stated we will certainly support the final proposal of this law at the Croatian Democratic Community club. In particular, I would also like to point out that the amendments proposed by the Committee on Law, not only in the nomotechnical section but also in the contained part, have been corrected by the text of this law, and certainly that I fully support the amendments made by the Committee on Legislatives at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Communities. So, Mr. President, I can say on behalf of the club that we will support the Final Bill on State Property Management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65635	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this bill. We would like to point out in particular that we are pleased that at the end of the term of office, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has highlighted its strong interest in the responsible availability of state property, availability and management of state property, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at the end of its second term to establish a full record of state property, that at the end of its term, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has introduced a new form of governance and availability of state property. And that at the end of its second term, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is sending in history the Privatisation Fund with all those in the rule of law to citizens of the Republic of Croatia the adverse consequences resulting from the management of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and which will definitely change this bill and which will definitely create a new possibility and a new chance by this bill. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement are pleased that the promoter accepted all those remarks that were made during the debate at the first reading. In particular, I must express my satisfaction that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has understood the illogical nature of the decision proposed by the draft law in the first reading, which is that the Agency for the Legal Transport of Real estate is joining this newly established agency, and the second part, in particular, of the encouraging housing, is being transferred to the Ministry that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has understood its error and that the Agency for the Legal Transport of Real estate is not involved in this Agency, but continues to retain its potential, its potential and depending on the willingness and ability of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do so, I am talking about the Agency for Legal Transport of Real Estate, to a greater, stronger or slightly stronger extent to fulfil its legal commitment and its legal potential. Related specifically to this legislative proposal. In the Club of the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, we believe that in Article 12, paragraph 6, which states that the Agency is responsible for its obligations with all its assets, which is not technically fully understood or acceptable. But we do not feel that there is a need for that position to be inside, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia guarantees in Article 7 of the Agency's obligations. Go on. We are not sure that it is the smartest solution by estimating good intentions, I repeat, by estimating the good intentions of the promoter, which is that, in relation to the first reading, a significant change has been made in the formation of members of the Governing Council compared to the bill in the first reading. In fact, the first reading provided for the Administrative Council to appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government. On this proposal, members of the Governing Council are appointed by the Government of the Ministers. Good intentions, however, contentally whether it was necessary to stress that. I am asking the question because a report is being submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a report on the Agency's work which will happen when the Government does not accept the report? Will the ministers then resign who have accepted one as members of the Board's administration and at the government as a collective body? That report didn't go through. Then will the ministers resign you? They're gonna do it, It would make sense, I don't know if it's gonna happen but it's the logic of things. But then in that variant, the government falls. If seven ministers resign, the government falls. So I don't think it's necessary that way. I think it's more marketing for ministers to manage. I think it was a better variant of what we already had in our first reading, which is that the Administrative Council appoints the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government and certainly because of the continuity of state property management. Of the 7 members of the Governing Council, of the four members are from the ruling parliamentary majority, and three are from parliamentary opposition. So at some point when the existing parliamentary opposition comes into the position of the parliamentary majority the continuity is working and retaining. But that's what it's all about. These are variations that each of us can have his/her/her/her/her/her/it attitude. However, I am asking in the context of these variations once again what will happen to those ministers who are members of the Governing Council and have not passed the report on to the government. It's all the same as before. Furthermore, Article 43 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the Regulation on the availability of real estate. I think it would be a good idea to add if the proposal assesses acceptable it can add that to the Government's amendment. It's not essential, but it's important. For the purposes of this Article, Article 43 refers to the way real estate is made available on the basis of the method of determining the market value of real estate, etc. etc. to write, to add a new position, which is before the decision to change or establish the right to real estate should be made to make an assessment of the reduction or increase of the value of the property. I think that with the good master's attention, by the logic of the good master's attention, there's a logic in the bill. I believe that math will be done, but often times if something, everything that doesn't appear in the law, then it's not necessarily done. Therefore, because of our transparency at the Croatian People's Party club, we believe that this position in Article 43 would give a more transparent dimension to the areas regulated by Article 43. Article 46 further speaks of the availability of real estate to carry out the activities of the State Administration Authority. It would be good if paragraph 1 specifically states whether compensation is paid or not, as paragraph 2 states the agency makes use of real estate without compensation, while there is nothing here. I think it would be good to write or one or the other, I repeat for transparency and for the clarity of the whole business and procedure. And also in Article 46(4), we believe that at the end of the sentence which ends as well as for other costs would be secured in the state budget at the position of the body of the state administration that uses the property in question, as a special item, purely for transparency because when a certain cost item is placed in the mass, it is often unclear, and unfortunately we have had opportunities and we have witnessed that these are often times and items that are finally clearing the BOOK or the State's Attorney's Office. In the end, we at the Croatian People's Party club, Croatia's pensioners' parties, will support this bill. We are pleased and absolutely happy that at the end of his term, the Government comes out with such a proposal and in any case such a proposal for state property management has its own economic component, as counterpart Bačić said on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, certainly as one stronger, far stronger, especially if it is transparent... And definitely given the recent parliamentary elections to the new government, it will allow this matter with state property to go one completely different way, certainly not in a way that we all want to forget together as soon as possible, and the State's Attorney's office is holding our thumbs to resolve what's been going on all these years. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65637	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65638	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Given that in the first reading a significant number of remarks are given to the text of the bill itself, and that it is largely or largely accepted I will very briefly refer to the present Final Proposal of the Law on State Property Management. I will repeat what has already been said to be good, even if it could be done before, and there have been attempts to make the entire portfolio come together, or all state property in one place. We were able to read about the problems with the list of state assets in the reports of the State Audit Office in the revision of certain entities, in 2002 there were attempts to combine the portfolio that was in the Privatisation Fund, i.e. pension funds and the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation, but it was not the law, but it was tried by the government's decision, or through contracts with the Privatisation Fund, so such an attempt did not produce sufficient results, and I think it is now good that we do so by law itself. When the State Audit Office presented to us and the final report on the revision of conversion and privatisation, we saw that a great value from land to some other real estate was not actually entered into the core capital of companies, and they therefore neither introduced them into core capital nor paid them, but they achieved a certain property benefit because they were in economic function, and it is good that what the Minister has informed us now is that this is a little bit and to a greater extent and is actually resolved and the state has entered into such property. So in fact, this should be the beginning of a rational economic governance of state property, from which social gross production should actually be increased, but also to solve some problems that had to be co-financed or financed from the state budget itself, because the state was actually co-owner. Just a few remarks I'd say and that would end this brief exposure. So here it's really well hit that we actually need to manage state property, and that three very important documents are being brought in, one will be a strategic one that will plan ahead for four years, and then we'll have, I guess, it's annual management plans and their realization. So every year Parliament will have the opportunity to see how state property is managed, what the effects of this are, especially as we discussed 69 companies that were involved as a society of special state interest, which in 2009 achieved 4 and a half billion losses. I hope that this way will then be far better and that these management and management effects will give you and then more positive than negative effects. We also had a situation that at least one part, so that is that portfolio that is located in the Privatisation Fund, was to be discussed once a year, and I was myself a member of the Supervisory Board that did not work, which did not meet and which did not report to the Croatian Assembly. I hope that such a situation will no longer be repeated, because it is inadmissible to be so, that it is such a way towards state property. I would like to say something about Article 14 in paragraph or point 7. It is said here that the agency will submit, so it submits and delivers opinions and participates in the process of drawing up spatial planning documents. I don't know if it's necessary to write in the law itself, since if there's any real estate in that area. So anyone who is, each citizen can file a request and have insight and make observations and opinions, but here it is implicated that when it is given by this agency that it will then be automatically accepted, because the law so established, because the unit of local self-government that adopts such a plan must be given both consent and certain ministries, if it is understood that in this agency it will be ministers, then so automatically it must be. In Article 16(3) and (4), it is said that the Agency is exempt from paying compensation for the re-use of agricultural land, i.e. adequate forest land. I think that the Law on Agricultural Land has given a lot of cases of exemption from payment of re-use, and this would mean that this is more than the law itself says, and that is, if agricultural land is used for certain economic purposes or for infrastructure. And I would just like to draw further attention to article 53, he talks about the entry of shares of Croatian wartime wartime disabled and family members of the deadlyly injured, or captured missing Croatian defender. It says here that they will get a certain set of shares in nominal values of 18 400 for 74, or 74 thousand kuna. It is difficult for me to tell how many of these and such options are, however, I would like to warn that if this portfolio refers only to a portfolio that is in the Privatisation Fund, it is no longer as good as it was at the beginning when defenders, or such users, were able to achieve the package. So I'm wondering if people aren't going to have expectations that in this sense they're going to have the value of shares or shares or maybe it's smarter to transfer it all to the Defence Fund and then there's going to equal the value of the packages and in that way they actually get the highest value of shares or shares that, because I don't think it's a large number of people, I guess it's not a large number of people. I haven't been able to figure out exactly how much it is. And in the end, I would just say that maybe it was better to do Article 59 no-technically, in view of Article 62. In Article 62, it says that the adoption of this law ceases the Law on Conversion and privatisation, the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, the Law on Privatisation, and Article 59 states that it will still be in force. So when it comes to the Privatisation Fund. Perhaps I should say it in a nomotechnical way to regulate which provisions of the law remain in force and which provisions are repealed. I think, as I said at the outset, a large number of objections have been accepted, adopted, and this is the text of a law that is acceptable and that can be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65639	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In my first reading, I was really pleased to listen to the debate and participate in this debate because I have not long heard so many good suggestions, so many rational suggestions, and I am even more pleased today to see that almost all these suggestions have been accepted. That really fills every MP here today. I have to point out some that have been a bad solution for years. For example, when it comes to the sale of shares or business shares, the company must finally be paid once and it must not be paid out of the company’s assets. Because banks are the ones who need to borrow payments, not state institutions. It's a big step in behaviour and attitude towards state property. And that's why we're going to have an extraordinary legal framework. But what is important and most important now is who will manage state property? The way of selection and selection will largely depend on Croatia's fate, but also the fate of future generations in Croatia. And we have to keep in mind when choosing that many have not been able to manage responsible functions in the last 20 years when it comes to state property. Many did not know how to deal with the burden of power, many did not pass on professional or professional checks, fell on column of responsibility, on humanities tests, on economics and business ethics tests. Many have vilified the economic profession and the fundamental principles of governance, many have ignored man and despised the common good. Some of them, Mr. Minister, never again come into the situation to manage state property, and this is, I believe, a guideline and a belief that they will no longer manage it. Because those who decide on important, important problems of society must be deprived of both malice and friendship and hatred, must be educated, must be able to manage, know how to lead. They have to because no one has yet been able to reconcile their feelings with social well-being and keep that in mind. In particular, I would like to express my satisfaction that you have shown sensitivity to the distinction in terms of professional training because there have really been attempts at equalising professional studies and undergraduate studies with university studies, and this is a dangerous way into the social party. And thank you and I congratulate you for having the sensitivity to that. Because it's an attempt to bagatelize, an attempt to relativize, an attempt to banalize the university community, and we cannot possibly allow it. This is an advantage, giving priority to natural skills over the systematic process of education in which knowledge and knowledge are acquired, but they also develop skills and abilities. And we must always keep that in mind. This law is a great basis for effective and responsible management of state property, and much will depend on the way it is managed and the country's remaining major economic potential. Direct, indirect, will even depend on the level of debt of the Republic of Croatia. It will depend on whether to stop the process of continued borrowing of the Republic of Croatia. Are we going to replace social cynicism and fatalism with optimism? This law depends on whether or not we replace demotivism with enthusiasm. Shall we, too, replace the doubt that is coming with faith in the better tomorrow? And I believe that we want to achieve all of this because accepting this remark is all accepted and the way it was passed and proposes this law is a visual copy of how finally seriousness takes place in triviality and superficiality, how logic pushes irrationality and how reason has overcome absurdity. And that's why I welcome this law and I will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65641	Thank you very much. It's the Honorable Representative Vlatko Podnar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. So no one in this House has anything against this agency and around finally introducing order into management of state property. However, here I have one thing stuck in my eye, which is Article 2 paragraph, i.e. under subparagraph 1. of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia other than those whose management and availability is governed by a special law. We know that the special law regulates agricultural areas, meaning the agricultural land law, the forest law and the Water Act. From the opening address of Mr. Minister, we have received information that properties owned by the Republic of Croatia that are both under forests and under water, water in this register, which we have nothing against, however, but if this is read at least as I read it, then it cannot be done that in Article 14 which is actually talking about Article 14 about paragraph 7, the Agency is involved in the process of drawing up documents of spatial order relating to the area of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, if we look at it from both agricultural and forest land, then it is in the territory of the Republic as a whole. Then basically we derrogate the forest law that says that there's someone who manages the woods who has the right to give an opinion on spatial plans and has the right to say what's going to happen to those surfaces. We put a little bit of the Law on Forests and the Law on Agricultural Land and Waters with this Act because we don't know which one is older, whether this Law or the laws that are intended for this particular thing. What is also a little unusual is that, in accordance with Article 16, the Agency is exempt from paying compensation for the re-use of agricultural land, which is determined by specific regulations and that the Agency is exempt from payment of allowances for transferred rights in the event of the demarcation of forest land or forest economic area and the transfer of ownership rights to the Agency. I don't know why it would be, and why this article was introduced, for the simple reason that we know that the Law on Forests pays compensation, and now we put that law back under this, and the problem isn't only in this law, but the problem in the Law on Public Roads that we now had in our first reading is not paid again and there is no compensation for forests and rights transferred to forests and forest land, and you know well that you are also the president of the Croatian Forest Trade Society Assembly, so I don't know why when we insist there, we try to increase areas under forests and forest land, and that is precisely the means for that purpose. And for one more reason, it doesn't make sense, and that's Article 41, where paragraph 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And that says 20% of the surface area of the planned building particle, okay when it's consistent with the spatial plan, when it's all consistent with the general acts of the units of local self-government, but this turns out to be exactly what 20% is missing, and I'm not going to tell which area is that if it's 1 acres, 2 acres, 2 thousand square meters, and it's just getting into state property in the woods, and now we're going to hand it over to the Agency without compensation and it's going to be sold on market terms. It doesn't make sense to me, and we're not derivating the forest law again. This second subparagraph, the person who, on his own land, owned without a building permit or other relevant act of the competent authority of the state administration, built a building in accordance with a detailed planning plan and a local permit, and lacks 20% of the surface area of the planned building particle provided that he undertakes that within one year from the date of conclusion of the sale contract, he will result in a building permit. So this is how it turns out that we're putting aside the Space Planning and Construction Act again, it doesn't make any sense again. Again, we can come into thinking and doubt that in such a way we can please someone who has any interest in any building or on their own, or on state land. Because that's exactly 20% missing, so we can expand it by market value, what is the market value of some particle in Voćino or what is the value in Dalmatia, what is the value in Zagreb, it doesn't make sense to me. And I say again because then there is a danger of an attack on state property or on state property and property that we do not have to pay in accordance with Article 14(4) of Article 16(4), we do not have to pay compensation there then it is really questionable how much we want to protect the state forest for the simple reason that such a way of attack can be very likely to attack the surface under the woods. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65643	Thank you. It's our guest, Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues from the Privatisation Fund, Mr. President. This is one of the laws I dare say is extremely important for Croatia today, and tomorrow. All of us, who, along with this work that we do here, are very often in a situation, and above all I think about the units of local, regional self-government that in one way or another they have had or have had contact with the elements of this Law or with the above mentioned topic, which primarily refers to the former institutions of the Privatisation Fund and the Central Office for the Management of State Property. At the very beginning, I would like to conclude that I support the adoption of this Act, which is primarily in the function of implementing the measures provided for in the Economic Recovery Programme and the adopted proposal for a reorganisation of both agencies, institutions, funds and other legal entities with public powers. I will immediately say that in this way I believe in one more important quality systematically approaching this topic which is extremely important I dare say that the person and every municipality or city or county to which the good part applies. It is clear here that this law does not apply to agricultural and forest land that remains in the domain of specific laws. I am particularly pleased that here and through this law, it is clearly and unequivocally indicated that the future agency has the task of acting on an economic basis, but it is also tasked to draw conclusions and decisions that contribute to the continued protection of this public interest, and this applies above all again to examples of practices for a large part of the areas that are connected to either roads or to other forms of municipal infrastructure that definitely constitute a higher social interest and for which the individual interest of a single investor is not hidden, but is made up of a total positive whole and content of the entire space. I listened carefully to a colleague who had just talked about the possibility of possible abuse of surfaces in certain articles and about this law was said to be distributed in a different way. But I will make it clear here that the bodies of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government through their spatial plans both county and urban and municipal and then the GUP decidedly speak of the very purpose and through that decidated purpose it is impossible to lead to individual or investment or use of land otherwise if the competent authorities and local or regional self-government did not bring such a thing. And it is quite clear and should not be afraid of the facts, and then of the social responsibility of the agency itself to make certain decisions, and when it comes to that land area up to 20% that if it fits into the bodies of the body of the local self-government and the economy does not sell that land or up to 20% by direct contract, and we know very well what the market price is today and there is no dilemma or if we are talking about a land competition that is above 20%. I would say here and I shouldn't be running away from it that through the current institutions and the Privatisation Fund and the Central Office, all of us who have dealt with this problem on this side as applicants of certain requirements, and we shouldn't be running away from it, we've had a lot of problems, and we don't need to run away from the fact that much of that land and the good part of that land still formally looking today unsettled, which means that it's making it much more difficult for the art and success of the investments themselves, and the times that we're dealing with aren't often more than a month or two or two years or two. And this is often the reason why in Croatia too, it is difficult to resolve property-legal relations, and then relations that are tied up as a prerequisite for the investment itself. There is a new task here in front of the agency, and that is that within a relatively short time period, I believe that it is a short period of three months which takes over the complete operations of the Privatisation Fund and then the agencies, in order to really respond to a large number of different types of requirements which are both on the Privatisation Fund and then on the Central Office as such and setting it up, which means that it is before the Agency that in a very short time with quality people that these answers and B) she has received here a new task that has not yet had, and that is one part of the interference and in spatial planning, which means that it must be adequately filled with experts of that kind so that she can do all of the work she needs to do in a quality way. I do not doubt all of this, but I repeat once again and draw attention to the extremely large number of unresolved property-legal relations of enrollment in grant books, all of what is widely referred to as state property, from which Croatian water is managed, which also governs Croatian roads and highways that have not been solved for years both land and inland contracts and solutions, and makes it important then to make quality decisions that the agency will have to do as such. I initially said that the proposal for this law is, above all, to the function of the implementing measures, hence the economic recovery envisaged, which means that A) quality decisions and B decisions must be made, which will be made in a relatively short period of time, because this is one of the most important prerequisites for faster economic recovery. So with that thinking, I want every success with the answers that they'll be doing in the future. I note, and you yourself are aware of how days and so tomorrow is before you there will be a really large number of objects, considering on the one hand good management, and on the other hand the public role and function that this body will have in relation to some other bodies of authorities from municipalities, cities to the very state. Once again, I realize that I will accept and support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65645	Thank you. Honorable representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. As far as this law is concerned, I'd like to say a few words. First of all, I absolutely support it. I don't want to repeat what my colleague Maric pointed out 10 minutes ago here. However, allow me for a few of these articles and formulations to say some of my vision. First of all, Article 15 discusses the financing of the agency, and there are several findings that the government will determine, and then it is shared and then goes into the story to the agency, etc. Which seems kind of confusing to me and I don't get it, it's not such a big deal if it's all right. And I really find that a little unclear because I don't understand here or in the light of any criteria in how certain funds will be made. I'd also like to say a few words about Article 42. The article 42 discusses the availability or authority of up to a million kuna, so I was kind of thinking about it that on our occasions it was about 30 to 40 acres [30 to 40 ha] if it was real estate, if I understood it well. Maybe not, because then it's a big property. I'm not sure that's the happiest solution. And finally, what is most important to me in all this text while in that material that we had previously had was one finding both in reason and in the text itself that the agency would open in the regions certain administrative departments, i.e. management. We are also on the Committee on Local Self-Government at the time, and I have also insisted that it be incorporated into the law, that it be in a certain sense of obligation, so it is said that it will be settled in the statute. Now, it does not say that the statute will solve it, and I therefore advocate that it should be resolved by the statute in any case, because I do not think the legislators, and it is likely that a small number of MPs are specific when it comes to the resolution of property legal relations with the current central office, which had the sole headquarters in Zagreb in everyday and operational terms, is really long and very difficult given the distances of certain areas from the headquarters of the office, i.e. from Zagreb. And it was not a rare situation that certain projects could not be realised precisely because of the delay or inability to effectively resolve these property transactions. I stress this because some of our areas, specifically when it comes to Baranja, in which way I represent that area, where in the pre-war period compared to the rest of Croatia almost 65, 70% were social property which has now become state property. Therefore, whatever project, whatever infrastructure before it started to be built, had to be resolved by property law. It's a pretty rough and long job. And that is why I again advocate not in the counties, but in the regional centres of Split, Osijek, Rijeka, at least to form myself in a certain way to say this agency to its out-of-state management organisation or administration. Here's how much I wanted to say, and since the entire morning was a debate on minority rights, I didn't report back then because I'm in such a situation that the minority I represent in this area of law enforcement has no problems, almost no problems at all, but obviously in this sphere of economic relations there is more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65647	Thank you very much. Finally, respected Petar Cobankovic, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65648	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Here, let me thank you for this debate. Let me say a few more sentences. First of all, I would like to repeat once again that we have taken great care of the debate in the Croatian Parliament which was in the first reading and I am glad that you ladies and gentlemen representatives have noticed that we have put in a good part of those remarks a suggestion. What does that mean? It means we really wanted to get the best and the best of the law. I am convinced that we have made a good law, that we have made a significant step in managing state property. But I'm also going to say, I don't want to say that we've made an ideal law. This is one I would say turning point and I am sure that this law will continue to have to work on, that in the part of the application of the law, in the part of the establishment of the Agency and the management and availability of state property will acquire and certain new experiences and that it will surely need some work to be done at that time. I stand on the point that it is always better to work up and pursue better solutions than to stand up and be stubborn and not to accept good suggestions and good suggestions. So we will continue to be very open to all suggestions and good suggestions. I would also like to look at a few findings that have been respected as a representative of clubs who, as well as in an individual debate, and to say that perhaps one of the crucial changes is also the way of appointing the Governing Council and membership in the Governing Council. I do not accept the conclusion that we are passing the law at the end of the term of office. Not yet, it's a full year ahead of us, and it can still be done. Therefore, I would also like to stress that this is exactly why, in accordance with the Law on Property and other legal matters, we hold that even ministers cannot run away from responsibility, especially at the moment when we are intensively in favour of encouraging investment and that, for these very reasons, ministers should assume responsibility both in the management and availability of state property. Unless the Government and the Croatian Parliament accept a report from the Management Board, which includes members of ministers, then of course you will need to resign. I'm the only one who believes it's practically not going to happen. As regards the shares that go to the disabled, I would like to stress that this refers to a complete portfolio, not only the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which practically becomes the property of the Republic of Croatia, but also to the other holders who are so far run as the Republic of Croatia by the Ministry of Finance and the like, which simply doesn't have the Ministry of Finance, but is the portfolio of the Republic of Croatia. I mean, I speak the example of some other government bodies. I would also like to stress that this issue concerning Articles 59 and 62 has just been addressed by the amendments of the Assembly Committee on Legislatives. And I also said in the opening section that I should thank you for a very good, constructive debate and amendments that are nomotechnically improving a part of the sentence, and partly regulate what was not properly regulated. And I think that right now, that you've noticed, Mrs. Zgrebec, that we haven't had the happiest solution, and that's why I am grateful to the Assembly Committee on Legislatives. And that's why I said we accept amendments to the Assembly Committee on Legislatives. As far as I'm concerned, I understand the wishes and intentions of Mr. Honorable Representative Vlatko Podnar, and I finally understand and I would say to him, his profession that he advocates. But here I want to stress when I talk about the property managed by other laws, it's not just a matter of agricultural land and forests and forest land. This is also about property available under the Law on the Sea and the Armed Forces and the like. That applies to that part, and when I'm talking about re-appropriation here. Of course, I, too, as Resolute Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture, am very much taking care of the non-reduction of agricultural areas. Of course, I'm not a forester at the moment, Minister of Forestry. But I don't think it's the same thing that needs to be taken care of. And, of course, that very re-use of agricultural land into unagricultural or forest and forest land into forests and forest land, that, of course, a maximum effort should be made to protect it. And we support that, and we have also shown it to certain laws on agricultural land and the Law on forests and forest land, in fact about forestry to be, the Law on forests well. But this is about something else. This is where the state is not obliged to pay re-use, and the Agency manages state property on behalf of the State. And for that reason, if it wasn't in this way specified in the law, the Agency would also have to be an obligation to re-apply regardless of the state property. On the other hand, when we talk about those possibilities that up to 20% can be solved not through the competition and I would say through the public. It's in function I'll repeat the incentive to invest. Unfortunately, we often face that because of certain circumstances, certain investment cannot go any further. And if that part were subject to a public competition, it could even happen if we got the opposite of what we wanted. We get that practically then knowing of the needs of a particular investor so that individuals who might be able to counter it above the current price, and then later not to say blackmail or not to use a more difficult word of someone who wants to invest. And here, I mean I wouldn't want to look back too much on the law. I want to thank everyone again, especially everyone who participated in the first reading debate. Here, we tried to build as much into the law as I said, and I believe we've made a good law, but we still need to work on the law. I think here's another thank you to everyone and I'm glad that you've all made a wish and with certain remarks that I finally respect that you will accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65649	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65650	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on State Property Management, this was a second reading, P.Z. No. 597. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. Do we agree to discuss the amendments here? Please raise your hands who's in favor of discussing the amendments to the government. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity. I'm asking the government's representative to explain the amendments. First, Amendment 1 to Article 19, Minister, Mr Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65651	... The Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] On the final proposal of the Law on State Property Management, the government proposes 2 amendments, which are practically the result of the debate concerning this bill. Amendment 1. – Article 19(1) is amended and reads as follows: "The President, Vice-President and 5 members of the Governing Council shall appoint and resolve the duties of the Government of the Republic of Croatia." The argument – as I have already said by following the debate concerning this Final Bill proposal, as we did after the first reading and what was observed in the first debate, was largely accepted by those proposals that had been crystallized in the debate, so the Government also accepted this amendment as part of the proposal to discuss the formulation that the administrative councils were ministers. So this creates the assumption that members of the Governing Council and on behalf of the Government manage assets on behalf of the Government can be made out of the order of experts, representatives or some other groups of not only ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65652	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this amendment to the government. Hold on, Minister. There's another one. There's no argument. Who's in favour of this amendment, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Abstained? There isn't. The amendment was accepted unanimously. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65653	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Explanation. As already stated in Article 20(1), the first paragraph of Article 19 has been replaced, and therefore there is no longer any need to remain in Article 20(1), as in Article 19, it became the first member and changed the first. So the essence is the same and the explanation is practically the same as for Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65654	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? There's no unanimous. With how much. 122 votes. I am voting on the final draft of the law on state property management, please let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by a majority of 114 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65655	We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. It's a - Proposed service law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 669. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ruđer Friganovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65656	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Today, we have before us the first draft of the Services Act which regulates the right to create and provide services freely on the territory of the Republic of Croatia while maintaining a high level of safety and quality of those services, and all in accordance with the Directive 2006. 123 European Communities and services on the internal market. The objective of this Directive is to remove trade barriers for service providers from the Member States of the European Union, thus implementing the fourth fundamental freedom, which means with the freedom to move persons, capital and goods and the free movement of services in the common internal market. In order to implement the activities set out in this Directive, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an implementation plan for this Directive on 22 October 2009. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which concerns the right of business creation and freedom to provide services, is an ongoing set of activities involving the adoption of this law as well as an analytical review and an assessment of the compliance of national legislation with the Services Directive. The following analysis covers a large number of legal and other rules governing the right of establishment and freedom to provide services. This includes a wide range of service activities that are provided by means of a certain economic compensation, including tourism, veterinary, crafts, legal, advisory, intermediation, distribution, construction, recreation and many other services. It's about what happened. the horizontal law which sets out the general principles and with which other specific rules for the service activities to which this Act applies will be harmonised. This will ensure compliance of the rules for those activities. Since the service market is very dynamic at the same time, there will also be rules for the emergence of new services that appear on the market. The law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication, and part of the provisions relating to the freedom to provide services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia will enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The law allows free establishment in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for service providers from the Member States of the European Union under the same conditions as for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This in practice means freedom of registration of companies, subsidiaries of daughters of institutions, crafts, representations and representations. Furthermore, the free provision, which is important, of cross-border services, means that legal and natural persons registered to perform service activities in a Member State of the European Union are able to provide services in the Republic of Croatia without the obligation to register in our country. This law regulates the establishment of an electronic contact point for services in the Republic of Croatia for all providers and recipients of services, with a view to the rapid exchange of information and the possibility of registering service activities remotely by electronic means. The process of establishing a single contact point in Croatia is under way in the economic chamber, which already has the relevant information infrastructure, necessary professional staff and links to all relevant institutions, and these days there has been one government to a project between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of the Netherlands in which we have taken over the meaning of their experience in that part of the establishment of a single contact point. The law also prescribes a connection to the European system, an information system on the internal market for services, which serves as an administrative cooperation between all competent authorities in the European Union. It is an electronic information exchange system, with the aim of effective supervision of service providers, and of all other business operators on the market, and of safety and quality of services and all in order to protect consumers. Croatia will, too, be involved in this administrative cooperation after accession to the European Union, with a view to providing information and helping in particular with regard to the business creation and legality of the business of the service provider. Measures relating to the safety and quality of services are established, i.e. a high level of consumer protection, as well as all business operators on the market. For example, competent authorities shall inform all other Member States of the European Union and the Commission as soon as possible of service providers whose activities may seriously harm the health or safety of persons or the environment through this system. The establishment of an administrative structure for the implementation of this law is also required, and this includes the establishment of a national co-ordinator for administrative cooperation with other members of the European Union through... the system, the national service coordinator concerned by the law and the national consumer safety notification coordinator. [[You don't understand.]] The coordinators will coordinate the work of all state administration bodies and other bodies responsible for service activities in the area of law enforcement. We expect that the application of the Services Act will have positive effects on the Croatian economy. The service sector is also a major driver of economic activity in the EU Member States, the service sector participates with around 70% of GDP, while in Croatia it is about 60%. The removal of barriers to the free establishment and the free provision of cross-border services creates preconditions for the successful integration of the Croatian service sector into the common European internal market. All companies in the Republic of Croatia will benefit from this, especially small and medium-sized Croatian companies. In the Member States of the European Union, the Directive applies to services from 28 December 2009, and as early as 2010, positive effects on GDP growth and employment growth in the field of service provision can be measured, in particular by reducing the average prices of services. Accordingly, we expect that the regulation of this area, and after joining the European Union, these positive effects should also be felt in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65657	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The adoption of this law into Croatian legislation will implement the Internal Market Services Directive, which started in the European Union on 28 December 2009. In short, the abolition of barriers to the development of service activities in the European Union's integrated market, except for the liberalisation of this law, should also ensure a higher level of quality and safety of services, and in this respect also means greater consumer protection. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill in its first reading. This law belongs to the so-called so-called law. the horizontal, or roof law, which provides for general principles and with which other specific regulations will be harmonised for those service activities to which the law and regulations apply. The law will also pass a series of newspapers, which need to indicate free business accommodation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, service providers from Contracting States in the European Economic Area, as well as the free provision of cross-border services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, those service providers that are commercially resident in the countries of the European Economic Area. All domestic and legal natural persons under this law will be able to settle in a Contracting State, and in the event of the provision of services in any Contracting State, if they have a seat in the Republic of Croatia, they will not have to register their seat in that State. The law will create assumptions, due to the trade liberalisation it brings, for increased inflows of foreign investment, job creation, improved information and consumer protection, and a reduction in service prices. According to statistics in 2008, in 2009 this service sector was the main driver of foreign direct investment in the European Union. How important foreign investment in the service sector shows data for 2009 from the European Union. In the service sector, 60% of new jobs have been opened, while 40% of new jobs have been opened in industrial activities. Similar positive effects are expected by applying this law in the Croatian economy as well. The operationalisation of laws in practice in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce will establish a single contact point that will serve as an information service for the integration of recipients and service providers and as an electronic intermediary between the business sector and the public administration. As there are a number of obstacles that prevent or slow down the development of services, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, and that the service sector is an important driver of economic growth and achieves around 70% of the gross social product in most European Union members, its adoption and the consequences that will produce are particularly important. As regards EU countries, the first economic assessment of the impact of the application of this Directive is the achievement of economic gains that should contribute to GDP growth at the level of individual countries between 0.6 and 1.5% annually. In the light of this first reading of the law, and in accordance with the observations made from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Economic Affairs, it should be specifically referred to Article 16 and Article 2 of this Law, to be elaborated and to be specified which specific services are covered by the law. In fact, there is something about incomprehensibility regarding legal expression, since it is a literal copy of the directive, so that it should be better, better quality, more precise, more clearly defined in the law to which the services of this law apply. And here at the end of the HDZ club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65659	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Directive 123/EC of 2006 on services regulates the right to free establishment and the right to free provision of services on the internal market in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to meet all the conditions for the full application of the Services Directive until the date of accession of the EU according to the deadlines set out in the implementation plan. The EU market is based on 4 fundamental freedoms. Freedoms of movement of persons, capital, goods and services. The services are here today. Service activities must have full freedom in development because they are an extremely important factor in overall economic development, resulting in a number of other developments and advances or vice versa, feedback or development. A huge number of services are not covered by specific regulations, but it is also the fact that new services appear daily, so it is necessary to buy and regulate all of this in a law like we have before us today that needs to be clearly aligned with European normative acts. In 2009, and during this year 2010, an analytical review and evaluation of the compliance or non-compliance of national legislation was carried out in relation to the provisions of the Services Directive and covered a large number of legal and other rules governing the right of business created and free provision of services. The Croatian economy as well as the EU economy is mostly service-oriented in terms of the share of services in GDP with a growth trend. Trade liberalisation in this context will therefore be an important factor in economic growth in Croatia, including inflows of foreign investment, job creation and further development of trade relations. Removing unnecessary procedures will significantly reduce time and costs and increase the freedom of business in Croatia and the inflow of foreign direct investment. The legislative framework obliges the Republic of Croatia and all Member States to cooperate with each other through an information system within the market. Furthermore, a single contact point will be established in the HGK to serve as an Internet information service. The HNS-HSU club will support this bill, but we also support almost all the objections made by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, in particular, we advocate to include sanctions in the law for all those performing services I would say illegally because we hold that we will thus narrow down the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65661	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Zdenko Franić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65662	We move on to the proposal of the Service Act, that was the first reading, P.Z.E. No. 669. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: first, the proposal of the Service Act, second all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? This proposal for a conclusion was adopted unanimously with 121 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65663	We move to the 5th item of the agenda, that is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 666 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivana Maletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65664	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I will briefly explain the reasons for this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. So, first of all, it's about harmonising with the acquis, the acquis communautaria EU, which is why liberalisation is fully introduced, and therefore, in the Foreign Exchange Act, certain provisions relating to the commitments we have made in the closure of Chapter 4. - Freedom of movement of capital, and this liberalisation is related to the approval of short-term financial loans to non-residents, the use of foreign loans via foreign accounts and to resident deposits. So that's what the new Foreign Exchange Act now allows for in the Republic of Croatia, and that's how we actually fulfilled one of the obligations under Chapter 4. - Freedom of movement of capital. In addition, it is a matter of harmonising with the amendments and additions of the Commercial Society Act by introducing a verification of compliance with the criteria of suitability and suitability of fit and properness for executive directors in the management boards. It is also prescribed by additional labour provisions or by the business of certain exchangers, so the law defines that authorised exchangers can buy foreign cash and checks that are foreign currency only for cash in kunas, and that they can sell foreign cash only for cash in kunas. The reasons for the refusal of an authorisation to carry out exchange operations and the reasons for the withdrawal of that authorisation shall be extended. New infringement provisions shall be introduced for exchangers carrying out trading operations and the register shall not have the prescribed activity of carrying out those same tasks and shall thus cease to apply to the authorisations granted to authorised exchangers on which the winding-up procedure has been opened before and after the entry into force of this Act. This is about the most important harmonisations are related precisely to meeting the criteria set out in Chapter 4 and second concerning amendments and additions to the Company Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65665	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. And it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65666	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say very briefly at first that the SDP Club welcomes the amendments and the addition of the Foreign Exchange Act and the ultimate goal that it aims to achieve that we will support this Law. As we have just heard here the adoption of this Law, and even its adoption by emergency procedure, is related to the very course of the negotiation process, but I would like it to be not the only and most important reason why it is accessible to these amendments and the additions of the Law. In fact, this law has direct implications for one activity that in the last two decades does not seem to me to account enough or at least not to be seen as an activity that can contribute to the economic development of the Republic of Croatia and to strengthen economic operators and especially their competitiveness in the international market. In fact, foreign exchange business is part of foreign trade business, one specific activity, many have already forgotten that foreign trade involved particularly specialised people who were involved in the business and thus provided better access to the external markets of our economic operators regardless of whether they had placed goods or services. And, of course, if we want to work on raising economic activities, if we want to work on raising our production, creating products that will be competitive, we cannot ignore that we are in this segment dependent on imports and that exports and imports are, in turn, directly related to the principles of foreign trade. The liberalisation which is the fundamental content of this Law refers directly to freedom of movement of capital and in itself creates better conditions for the inclusion of all Croatian potentials in a simpler way in international economic and trade flows. However, I would like to point out here something which is also related to this Law but is not defined by this law. A liberal attitude towards foreign exchange business implies to an appropriate extent repairing or strengthening supervision. I don't mean monitoring the outcome, I don't know how to hunt witches, make it impossible for employers or prevent people from trying to prevent certain employers from doing their jobs freely, because they were in past periods, which is not like that or that they represent unwanted competition. A fair fair proper supervision that must follow the liberalisation of foreign exchange regulations because if that is not the case then it will prove that liberalisation has not brought any good but has brought anarchy and disorder. In the light of this Law, another law relating to this supervision is mentioned, which is the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. I once warned of a bad voice that beats Croatia when it comes to the illegal money laundering business, I don't know if it's for this pay phone, but in any case, one of the political speeches, how Croatia beats the voice in Europe as a country where it's easiest to clean up some not-to-end clean money. I was therefore called by the Minister of Finance, and even accused of harming the interests of the Republic of Croatia but unfortunately I was saying what others did not say, the SDP warned against the problems we have in Croatia unlike those who did not dare to say it at the time. And they weren't really protecting anyone. Recently, I did not know which report, but international agencies that speak of Croatia still as a country where money is easily laundered. I only mention this to confirm or support this thesis or request from us from the SDP that, with the liberalisation of foreign exchange operations, there must be increased, fair and effective targeted supervision. Because otherwise, we will enter European trade cash flows but we will continue to carry with us one negative or difficult weight of an unreliable country, and this integration and liberalisation will not ensure the full effects that can be achieved. And finally another brief note relating to this part relating to the liberalisation of our resident business entities to operate on accounts or to raise loans or to operations on accounts outside the country without special approval. We often know that the money that our economic operators owe abroad comes from profits from foreign banks made on the domestic market. In addition to these liberalisation procedures, it would be good for the Government to seriously consider and adopt those legal regulations and other regulations to ensure that profits in the Republic of Croatia in particular bank profits do not go beyond the owners who are foreign owners of banks, but to introduce such measures as will encourage both those owners and those banks to keep their profits in the country and invest in the development of the economic, financial and service sector in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65667	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65668	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with his associates. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act is practically not adopted and nothing new is happening, but is a fundamental task for the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the area of the liberalisation of deposits, residents and the use of foreign credits through accounts abroad, resulting from the commitments we have made during the negotiation process in Chapter 4 – Freedom of movement of capital. The liberalisation of deposit operations, a resident based on this draft law, takes place from 1 January 2011, and is practically the most significant provision of this law. Since 1 January 2011, Croatian citizens will be able to freely open accounts abroad and carry out traffic through these accounts. In the area of business of authorised exchanges, new provisions are introduced which substantially amend and introduce new restrictions for authorised exchanges, and it is essential that the authorised exchanger can sell foreign cash and checks only for cash in kunas, and that they can sell foreign cash only for cash in kunas. A very complex procedure is being introduced for obtaining trading licenses and without doubting its justification for me at the HNS Club, HSU we use the opportunity to ask the question, whether this procedure can be simplified in any way, and to achieve the same objective of respecting legality. In fact, we all know that each of us is more in a more powerful or less powerful way to have the opportunity to either feel or see or attend, which is that especially in the tourist centers in our coastal part, tourists are often in a situation that they do not have to change money. The exchange office doesn't work, the bank doesn't work, or because of his como, he doesn't want to go to the exchange office, he doesn't want to go to the bank, his right. However, our stores cannot sell goods and foreign exchange services, only for kunas. Because Kuna is our national means of payment. And now the question arises, is there even a possibility, and certainly there is, that in a milder version, there is also insurance in such shops, such restaurants, such places as it is provided in the Croatian highways for toll by the same model, to ensure that these people can sell their goods, their services, their souvenirs, that they can sell for all kinds of payments. It's just that personally we at the HNS club don't see one logical and understandable reason why we don't make it possible for these people. I'm sure there's exchange offices, there's banks, it's all right. However, practice speaks quite differently. So our proposal, the proposal of the HNS and HSU club, is to allow whether small authorised exchangers will be called in any other way, it doesn't matter what they're going to call it, but to allow them to have the possibility of replacing foreign cash into kuna but not having the possibility of foreign cash for kunas. And that's how we solved everything. We've given them the opportunity to, under a certain procedure of age, have that authority, to have the possibility of buying out foreign currency, to automatically sell their products and services, but normally with the restriction that they don't have the right to sell that foreign money, money for kunas. We believe in the club of HNS and HSU that such a solution, one of the possible solutions but the solution to this problem I repeat to which we are all witnesses, and in order to make good master and improve the use of the possibility of overall improvement of economic flows, would be particularly useful for the tourist area, it would be especially useful for those control areas visited by tourists, and in any case, it does not seem logical to not take what opportunity is given to you, and to get that possibility for one of the shortened procedures whether under this law or any other, completely irrelevant, but in any case, it is necessary to address both this problem and to take advantage of such opportunity and opportunity. Well, in the context of that, we at the HNS and HSU will support this bill. But at the same time, we suggest that this problem that may not be so significant, but at a time when you don't have the opportunity to earn it, it's very important, so let's give it to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65669	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65670	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act and by an urgent procedure. It should be recalled that, in order to prevent action to mitigate the spillover of the global financial crisis on the domestic financial system and better liquid management, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted the Regulation on amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act which has delayed the liberalisation of remaining capital restrictions. On the other hand, it should be recalled that the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to bring its legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, and this law is the enforcement of that obligation in Chapter 4-Freedom of Capital Movement. This is why this law is also adopted primarily in order to confirm the provisions of the Regulation which have since the first of January 2011 established the liberalisation of depositors' deposits and the use of foreign credits via foreign accounts, resulting from the commitments made during the negotiation process in Chapter 4-Freedom of Capital Movement. The liberalisation of residence deposits, which therefore takes place on 1 January 2011, is the most significant provision of this law. From that date on, residents will be able to freely open accounts abroad and carry out payment traffic through these accounts. It should also be recalled that according to this current law, residents were allowed to open an account and transfer funds to an offshore account only with the approval of the Croatian National Bank. So now about 100 legal persons in residence use the approval to open an offshore account and hold money on these accounts, while other legal persons keep money exclusively in accounts with banks based in the Republic of Croatia. What should also be pointed out is that this law extends the grounds for refusing to grant an authorisation to carry out exchanges transactions, i.e. the reasons for withdrawing the authorisation which includes other criminal sanctions with so far the sentence of prison and fines. Furthermore, a provision is introduced under which an application for the authorisation to carry out exchange operations is rejected if a bankruptcy or liquidation procedure is opened on the applicant. It shall be prescribed to suspend the validity of an authorisation for the conduct of exchange operations issued to an authorised exchanger over which the winding-up procedure has been opened before and after the entry into force of this law. New infringement provisions shall also be introduced for authorised exchangers carrying out exchange operations, and the register shall not include the activity of carrying out exchange operations. Therefore, this law establishes that authorised exchangeholders can buy foreign cash and checks that are foreign to currency only for cash in kunas and that they can sell foreign cash only for cash in kunas. According to the applicable law, authorised exchangeholders may sell foreign cash for debit or credit cards and for checks that read on the kuna. And the suspension of the use of these instruments is introduced to prevent their use for lending that can include interest rates. So there's a lot of reason to accept the bill. The Club of Representatives will support the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act and we will also support it to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65671	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65672	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 666. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Let's be patient not much yet, so here's some little technical problem. Please engage and vote and make sure that what you wanted is registered here. The result? This Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act was adopted by the majority of votes, 113 votes for, 4 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65673	We move to the next item - Proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 667 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration, finance and the state budget. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivana Maletic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65674	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Here's a brief explanation for the new Law on the State Audit Office. So, you all remember, of course, the detailed content of the June 2010 amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and one of the changes was also related to the role and position of the State Audit Office, which was designated as the highest audit institution in the Republic of Croatia, independent and independent in its work. Now according to this amendment, a new law fully in the spirit of that constitutional provision is also adopted, so the State Audit Office is fully appointed as an independent and independent institution in its work. What's very important is this law is actually one of the fundamental laws that fully regulates the public finances management process, so we have three key laws. In addition to this law, this is the Budget Act which defines the budgetary processes, which has introduced a modern approach to the planning process in terms of multiannual budgetary planning and programming with the definition and setting of objectives since 1.1.2009, and what is more important, indicators and measurement of the success of meeting these objectives and achieving results. The second law is the Internal Financial Control System Act, the 2004 Act which has been adopted and which has been continuously implemented, in accordance with the best practice of the European Union countries and is one of the key requirements of the European Commission in the negotiations set before each candidate country. Thus, to be introduced with well-defined budgetary processes under the Budget Law, to introduce a good internal control system and another important element, which is internal audit. The third law, which is now a newer date and will be in force since 1.1.2011, is the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which then completes a picture of all the necessary application in fact and the establishment of fiscal rules and rules of fiscal responsibility. Finally, this Law on the State Audit Office is finally right and, in essence, the most important revision mechanism is precisely the application of these laws as set out in the practice and in good and legal, so regular treatment in practice and what is more important, effective, timely. Therefore, all these mechanisms and all the provisions of this type and in the Law on State Audit are assessed in time, efficiency, efficiency of work, compliance with results, and the preconditions for this are laid down through these laws. Thus, by law on the State Audit Office, we agree in this way a complete and quality system of public money management or public finances. What is further defined by law is the structure, jurisdiction, management and mode of work and reporting of the State Audit Office. The State Audit Office shall be managed by the Chief State Auditor, appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget at the time of 8 years, the audit shall be envisaged and planned within the scope of the annual programme and the work plan, and the audit shall be subject to state revenue and expenditure, financial reports and financial transactions of units of the local and regional self-government units, legal entities to which the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional regional self-government have majority ownership, i.e. a wide range of the general budget of legal persons and more than that, legal persons financed from the budget and the use of the European Union's funds and other international public needs funding organisations and what is specifically defined by the law that the revision of the State budget is required each year, and for all these other entities in accordance with the assessment of the risk of the basis which the State's work plan for the revision for the next year. Here, thank you, that would be brief.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65675	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? For European integration? For finance and the state budget? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Vice-President of the House of Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65676	Thank you very much. Once again, the Law on the State Audit Office is an extremely important law, and at first I want to say what I am sorry that at the end of the fall session it came into debate because I think it would otherwise be more likely to give more attention and more activity in terms of discussions and all clubs and most representatives. We heard earlier from the secretary of state, and I would like to point out in particular that it has listed several important laws governing the area of public finances and which are extremely important for one legal, effective, good functioning of the state. I think it is precisely the unhappiness of the events that we are witnessing today for which some are directly damaged, and all of Croatia is caused by one general common damage, and a little shame, that they stem from insufficient attention devoted to monitoring and monitoring and the course of all processes in a area called public finances. The SDP advocates' club continuously participated in several parliamentary mandates as a participant in the legislative process of passing these laws and in the formation of our financial system is very active, very well-intentioned and I will dare say we never used this area for political criticism or pure political criticism. We have always taken this issue seriously and responsibly, and we have made available the expertise of the people we have in our own party. This Proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office, as we have heard, is the consequence of harmonising with the European legislation and should, in my opinion, be a positive step in the regulation of the work of the State Audit Office, given that we already have some experience of 16 years of experience and a little more than that with the State Audit that was going through the various phases. In fact, when we introduced a state audit in this respect, we had no experience and we built a system of state audits on the skills and abilities of our own people and on the experiences of other countries and, of course, took care of and created our own system within some international standards. The proposal for this law is very short and simple. On behalf of the SDP, I dare say that we are glad that this Law is so and we are glad that most of the areas or details that need to be regulated are based on international audit standards and on recommendations from the European Union that are also speaking are going towards standardisation of the audit procedures. I don't think it should simply be said in our people to invent hot water but to stick to rules, the rules of the profession and the State Audit Office should be established as independent as possible of any pressures and influences other than clear objectives, which means monitoring and encouraging more orderly public finances, on the one hand, and establishing legality and order in spending public money on the other. This is an opportunity for me to say something about what we have achieved so far in this area. The SDP Club has always supported the State Audit Reports so far, I will again emphasise without any political comments, trying to find you state audits and then when we were more or less satisfied with them, then ultimately take advantage of the more order for the next period. We never voted without supporting the State Auditor's report, or the State Office's report. So our vote could have been interpreted and here I am now taking the right to interpret it, that in general or globally, we have positively assessed the work and development of the State Audit Office. Of course, during that period, the State Office went through several phases. In the first stage, only one part of the revision prescribed by the law was followed. Today, too, this is defined in the first paragraph of Article 7 which speaks of the fact that the revision is actually examining documents, documents, reports and all other documents to determine whether the financial statements show the true financial position and the results of financial activities. So they determine whether the recording procedures were done in a way that shows the true result of the business. Income and expenditure, profit, loss, all that is important for public finances and future planning. In the second phase, when it strengthened the small State Audit Office, it also went with its second obligation, which was approached by a study of financial transactions in terms of the legal use of funds and even more in assessing the effectiveness and economic performance of the activity. The three tasks of the State Audit Office are difficult to say which is more important, all three of which are important. But again, referring to some of the negative experiences that we have witnessed today in another judicial context, it shows that this role of the State Audit Office regarding the assessment, the assessment of effectiveness and the economic performance of the performance of the activity, or the effectiveness of the achievement of the objectives of the business, is extremely important for the spending of public money. It was the second phase that we encouraged the State Office and we were also satisfied and we think that right now the State Office should make a new step, that their reports, their coverage of the audit should be 100% complete and that further quality insight into how public money is available should be ensured. This is not only the obligation of the State Audit Office to the Croatian Assembly to which the report is submitted. It is the obligation of all of us together and this Parliament and the executive authorities and all other levels towards citizens, the taxpayers of those whose labour pockets accumulate the funds that are spent on their behalf here. If these funds are spent properly and in accordance with the laws in favour of taxpayers, they will surely be satisfied that they pay the tax to the country they love. But if these funds are illegally manipulated, if those who possess these funds continue to abuse their position and spend that money on their own, and not for the general benefit of taxpayers, then it will not be good, and here I stress the role of the State Audit. They are the first to need open, courageous, independent of anyone and anything to warn on time, such behaviours, such illegalities, and such attempts at inefficient and unacceptable spending of public money. For this, the State Audit Office needs full independence. In the light of this Act on this independence or function, the important segment of independence of the State Office is much talked about the reasoning of this Act and the very provisions of the law in most parts ensure that independence. Of course, such provisions of the law can also be manipulated and that the State Audit Office can be brought into functional and financial dependence on state authorities. To avoid that, we must have a good, best law possible. But we must also have a higher level of responsibility for those who engage in public work, government and public finances. This law well regulates the State Audit Office as the highest institution for the conduct of State or external audits, independent and independent in its work. They shall also regulate the competences and internal structure and mode of work, and shall establish the basis for the functional and financial independence of the office. On this proposal for a law in this first reading, we have one key observation and we hope that you will listen seriously, it is serious and take it seriously. And that for another reading you're going to install this one little bit, but for us, from the SDP club, it's a very important improvement. We propose an improvement in Article 8 which regulates the management of the State Audit Office. This is about selecting the main state auditor, because the main state auditor is a key figure which is in some way also a guarantee of independence and independence of the State Audit Office. In this proposal, it states that the Chief State Auditor shall appoint the Croatian Assembly on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Of course, it is called the Croatian Parliament. That's something we have no objection to. However, we think it would be good to complete this Article 8 with a provision that would not be based on proposals from individual representatives' clubs, as is practice today, but on the basis of a public call. We think that this is the place of such an independent prominent individual as the law defines it here, that it should still be made possible by a wider circle. Secondly, a public call will make it impossible to label any candidate to belong to this or that political option. At this point, we can also get a proposal from the best candidate, but if it comes from the order of a round from one club of representatives, the candidate will generally get the label of members of a political option, lose credibility and lose what the state auditor or auditor should have, and this is a picture of complete independence and the possibility of really being completely independent of any political option. Here's our key observation that we don't think goes into the essence of the way we choose, we think we still have to choose the Parliament, but that the way that potential candidates are recruited should still be better and better and less politicised. Let me finish with this, and I hope that this very reasonable and responsible proposal will be accepted and that we will be able to pass this important law eventually and by consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65677	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65678	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the State Audit Office, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office, which is supported by the HDZ Club, which also determines the part-time work of the State Audit Office, which is determined by audit control entities, reporting processes, which governs the structure of the State Office, authorised auditors, and many others that are of paramount importance for the functioning of the State Audit Office. We heard here from counterpart Antunović a lot about the role of the State Audit Office, with which everyone agrees that it is one of the most important institutions for the functioning of the system in the Republic of Croatia, and that the role of the State Audit Office is already being performed for 15 years. Much could be read so far from the State Audit Office report, and it can be concluded that they have done a very large and extensive job over the past 15 years. It was both demanding, professional and extensive work. If everything that is written there were read more carefully, then the consequences would probably be different than they have been before. Especially when it comes to achieving the objectives of conversion and privatisation. In view of the amendments and the constitutional category that the State Audit Office has become part of the Constitution, introduced into the Constitution, there has been a need and harmonisation with the legislation of the European Union, and with the Constitution, a proposal for this law. The law is short but good, however several suggestions for improvement. The HDZ Club thinks it should consider that Article 8 of the Chief State Auditor, which says it has been appointed for an duration of 8 years, would be more appropriate to consider that mandate for 5 or 6 years, because neither the State Attorney, nor the Governor, nor anyone else has such a mandate, so it should consider determining which mandate is more appropriate to this function, which is 5 or 6 years. It should also be more precise to define the conditions required for the main national auditor. It is said that the main state auditor can be appointed citizens of the Republic of Croatia with a special reputation and professional experience in the field of public finances. It would be desirable to introduce both professional conditions and years of experience. This would, however, limit the possibility of a broad choice. With regard to the observations of counterpart Antunovic and that the main state auditor is appointed to the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Design, Selection, designation and administrative affairs, and on the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, but on an earlier public call, it would be, if applied to similar criteria and others, then the public call should also go to the governor of the National Bank, and to the state lawyer, and then we would get a little too broad base for that. However, Croatia is so small that we know everything, all potential candidates as professional as they are trained and as high-quality as they are, so there is no great possibility of hiding good candidates. Article 15 provides that authorised auditors shall draw up reports. Paragraph 5 states the report on the audit carried out by the statutory representative of the audit entity may object within 8 days. Given the very extensive work of the revision, it would be worth considering extending that deadline, since 8 days is too short to show the results of the audit, so you might consider 15 days to make it more acceptable, and all these other deadlines are well-defined. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The HDZ Club thinks that the re-imposing of all professions or the majority of professions and professional studies, and university studies is inappropriate, that an authorised auditor should have a high professional preparation of university study, economic or legal direction, and that information or other relevant orientations should be done. It is also stated that a person wishing to be a state auditor has not been convicted of criminal offences in the area of economic crime. And what if he committed a murder? I don't think it would be appropriate if he were a state-run, authorized state auditor. So that's a more precise definition. In Article 20, the authorising State auditor shall not carry out an audit if he is a member of the Supervisory Board or of another audit entity. It should consider whether it is at all desirable for an authorised state auditor to be a member of a supervisory board or any other body. So get that part too. With these few small suggestions, we will have an excellent legal framework, and a basis for an even better and more effective operation of the State Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65679	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU Club also joins previous clubs and SDP and HDZ in favour of supporting the adoption of this first-reading bill. The fact is that thanks to the chapter on closure, the EU's common position on Chapter 32. – Financial supervision and as a criterion for closing chapters is also required by this law. And that's good. But in doing so, we at the HNS-HSU club are asking a question that we haven't arranged before. So another legislative proposal that we are talking about today, which the Government is proposing to the Croatian Parliament at the end of its term of office, with it being a commitment from the negotiating chapter and measuring it. Could we have done this before? We did. Why didn't we? We didn't. Was there a reason? Very likely. In fact, when we speak, when we read this law and from the introduction of this text section in the introduction of this law, it writes that the basic principles of independence recognised in the community of state audits as a fundamental requirement for the effective functioning and revision of the public sector, resulting from those documents, are the following, among other things: independence of the Head of State Audit Institutions and including the established duration of the mandate and legal protection in the performance of the duties, but I am particularly undermining the independence of the Head of the State Audit Institution. Furthermore, sufficiently broad powers and complete discretion in performing the functions of the institution. Furthermore, unlimited access to information, persons and documents. Furthermore, the right and obligation to report on the work of the institution and ultimately an effective relationship between the institutions of the State Audit and the legislative authority established by the Constitution. I repeat, the basic principles of independence that we definitely support, with which we all agree together, how successfully we have been able to society these principles, in fact better put forward how successfully the State Review of these principles has benefited or not used or based its work on these principles, I do not think there is any need to comment further, that this is generally known as the fact that we are adopting this law thanks to Chapter 32. Respecting all those other arguments that say that's not the case. Furthermore, especially at the HNS-HSU club, we fully support the remarks expressed by a colleague in front of the SDP club and colleagues in front of the HDZ club, so there is no need to specify them in particular. They are important and necessary and necessary for something that will be one lever in the process of building an orderly society, and that is ultimately our obligation. However, I would also particularly underline the obligation set out in Article 6 that the audits are subject to state revenue and expenditure, financial reports and financial transactions of the units of the state sector, units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and I am stressing this in particular – legal persons financed from the Croatian budget. Did we in the Croatian Parliament have the opportunity to read or read the audit of legal persons financed from the Croatian budget? We didn't. Especially those legal persons who receive twice as much money from the state budget as the total income of the Ministry of Tourism, for example. Here, just because of the future, we are accepting these principles, our willingness to build together an orderly society and our readiness, and where we at the HNS-HSU club fully support the initiative of colleague Antunović and I think we must start somewhere. So let's start with the State Audit. Let's start somewhere. Therefore, let us support in the proposal for a law that we will receive in the second reading, let us also give that provision and this proposal by my colleagues from the SDP, but I also expect the proposals of my colleague Marić in front of the HDZ Club, and in the State Audit report that we will receive in the Croatian Parliament, I expect that we will also receive the spending of the budget of the legal persons financed, in part, but are financed in a significant amount from the state budget. We at the HNS-HSU club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65681	Thank you. The HSS club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The State Audit Office was established now long ago in 1993 by the State Audit Act. The law found that the audit is carried out in a manner and in accordance with the procedures laid down by the audit standards of the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions. The Lim Declaration has established... audit standards specifying the work and functioning of state audit institutions and their fundamental principles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the main goal is to highlight the independence of state audit. In addition to these audit standards, the issue of independence of the State Audit Institution is dealt with by the Mexican Declaration of Independence of the Supreme Audit Institutions adopted in 2007 as well as the ethical code and numerous resolutions and declarations and the Prague Declaration adopted at the meeting of the Head of State Audits of Central and Eastern Europe and the European Court of Auditors of 1999. In this debate we have already heard the basic principles of independence and not bad and repeat them. This is the appropriate constitutional and legal framework and its effective application. The independence of the heads of state audit institutions, broad enough powers and complete discretion. Unlimited access to information by persons and documents. The right and obligation to report on the work of institutions, the freedom to decide on the content of audit reports. The existence of effective monitoring mechanisms made under the recommendations, financial and management autonomy and ultimately an effective relationship between the institutions of the State Audit and the legislative authority established by the Constitution. During the preparation, i.e. the preparation process for the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, the European Commission's concrete request of June 2007 in the document of the European Union's common position on Chapter 32. financial supervision and related to the preservation of functional and financial independence of the State Audit Office through amendments and additions to the constitutional provisions or national legislation having the same effect and the adoption and implementation of the necessary accompanying rules. The proposed draft law was intended to apply the recommended audit standards as well as all the requirements and proposals resulting from the negotiation process. The proposed law lays down the structure, jurisdiction, management, mode of work and reporting and the duties and rights of authorised state auditors and cooperation with other bodies, detailed arrangements, methods of work, the receipt of authorised auditors in a working relationship, or the conditions for the performance of the tasks of authorised auditors of termination of work, and other issues which need to be regulated in more detail by the normative acts and the Statute of the State Audit Office. The proposed law prescribes the appointment of the Chief State Auditor, his responsibility and scope of action and the length of the mandate we have heard of today. The way in which the audits carried out are carried out is also listed, precise deadlines have been set for both auditors and statutory representatives of the audit entities. However, the HSS Club draws attention to the provision of Article 8 which stipulates that the Chief State Auditor shall appoint the Croatian Assembly on a proposal from the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs and with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. We believe and think that it would be possible to prescribe precisely the formal conditions, the years, the work experience, and the second as a condition for the main state auditor and the possibility of which we also heard today the call for a public tender, followed by the rest of the required selection procedure between the candidates reported. Finally, if it is a public tender, everything will again come before the Parliament and the Parliament will appoint the main state auditor. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The proposal for a bill is prescribed that the main state auditor has a deputy appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the main state auditor. However, none of the conditions for the deputy is stated, and we therefore believe that the conditions should be specified for the Deputy Chief State Auditor in order to know immediately what are the decisive conditions for his choice, as otherwise it may be possible to obtain the impression that the Deputy Chief Auditor may be chosen under conditions which are not decisive in professional and professional terms which we consider to be not a good solution. The proposed Act states that by the end of the following year, the main public auditor shall submit a report to the Croatian Assembly for the previous year, after which it shall be published on the website of the State Audit Office, allowing for more transparent insight into the audits carried out. We at the HSS Club think that it should be prescribed that original versions of state audit are published on websites rather than shortened versions of national audits. We also think that these data should be published and made available to the public, which is one of the important steps to combat corruption in Croatian society. Finally, the HSS Club welcomes the proposed Law and considers that, with small additions to certain provisions, it clearly, precisely and systematically regulates the issue of the organisation of the State Office for Audit and that it is in line with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe and other sources of European Union law. Since this is the first reading, if there was enough time, I saw that the co-workers and the secretary of state were enrolling all of our remarks, I believe that some of our remarks will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65683	Thank you. HDSSB club Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65684	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the State Office for Auditing a colleague and a colleague. When the Office of State Audit is said, Audition, auditors then came to mind the name of a comedy and it's called the Auditor Nikolaja Vasiljevič Gogolja, when you look at the Internet Auditor and Gogolj there says that the said writer who was himself an official, an official in Tsar Russia, created characters who became forms of corruption in Russian society, selfishness says, quoting "leekness, stupidity, laziness". The comedy itself was created by expecting an auditor in a Russian place to panic, etc. Our Office of State Audit generally does not panic among those who are subject to review, there is no panic because we have seen here during all possible State Audit reports, that there are no consequences from the State Audit Report, regardless of the assessment in that State Audit to Rome... declaration and classification, whether those assessments were conditional, unconditional or unfavourable. And every year we get here on the benches of the State Audit Reports, and in that pre-indulgence report on privatisation in the Republic of Croatia, it was fully assessed, therefore neatly through the methodology of the State Audit that there was no crime committed in privatisation in the Republic of Croatia. We have now changed the Constitution, which said not to obsole the crimes of privatisation and we have continued to hold reports of state audits that have not been deleted about how crime has been committed in privatisation. I am very interested in whether through the State Audit report, which is accurate and commendable, there will be any sanctions or there will be acts of repressive character, legislative, legal, judicial, etc. in connection with those for which the state audit has established that there have been serious irregularities in privatisation. The very proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office makes it clear that it is to be welcomed, because decisions and directives and everything else the EU requires and what practice is in the EU countries are being built in, and this law has passed the E. or English I is called P.Z.E. However, citizens who read the Web pages in Article 16 said: "Citizens can read reports on the work of the State Audit Office on the website of the State Audit Office" and what my colleague said before me in the short version. And if we would all like, in particular, those subject to the State Audit reports and those related to the actions and which have been audited and researched by the State Audit to see exactly one detail of the State Audit report on each individual case, each individual local self-government audited in which the State audit is then carried out in the regional self-government and all other authorities of the State where the State is being carried out and where the State audit took place. It is clear that when citizens spot that unfavourable rating that I know about in the last report they had 3 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, there is even one in Brod-Posavina County unfortunately, and one in Zadar, and I don't know where it is at all. I will not deliberately state the names of these municipalities that have been given me to say a non-transparent or negative assessment today, I wonder if there was any connection between the State Audit report and those who should be concerned in the Republic of Croatia and who should be concerned about the irregularities in the business of these local self-government, the municipalities, so that it is also a city, so that there is no link between the investigation procedure in connection with the actions which the State Audit found to be incorrect, and for the fact that, as far as I know, there is no effect on inspections, there is therefore no link, nor interference between the State Audit reports and those who should take direct account of it. And these are inspections, financial, economic, so the Ministry of Economy, etc. Taxes and others, plus the repressive apparatus of the Ministry of Justice, State's attorneys, etc. What's it worth to us to review if those things that are perceived as unfavourable, as irregular according to the report point of the sight of your method, if the hills are shaken and the mouse is born. How will we force the leaders, officials to work in accordance with the law, the regulations that the Croatian Parliament has adopted in a large number since 22 September, is that right, Mr. Vice-President, that we are sitting in accordance with the laws of the EU, if this does not produce any effect that these leaders whose communities are subject to the local so we can make nothing change the way they work so that their work is of quality, to benefit citizens and local and regional self-government or the state of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we have these affairs, every day we reveal a lot of things, but here's the Office of State Auditing Work, sending reports to the Croatian Assembly, but I'm saying clearly that it's not the jurisdiction of the State Audit, so I'm not accusing or condemning the State Audit, but the State Audit could be at least some kind of a sign of an indication where these other authorities of inspection, the State Attorney's Office can start with their actions. I am convinced that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are experiencing such subjective state audit and the Office of State Audits such as, let's not talk about the function itself, such as the Constitutional Court, as some kind of independent institution, an institution that will give an objective picture of what it audits. Completely out of party influence, completely beyond any influence. Unfortunately, here we are the other day, so we have enthroned the party man, and therefore I agree with the colleagues who spoke here before me, that some public call and the selection of the chief state auditor should be as they suggested. I would refer to the presentation of my colleague Maric, who has indeed made it clear for Article 18 that perhaps I do not know what subparagraph 2 is to say that he is not convicted of crimes in the area, so it is that the authorised state auditor must fulfil the condition that he is not convicted of criminal offences in the area of economic crime. I don't think this follow-up in the area of economic crime is necessary, not to be convicted of criminal acts. So that would be quite enough and appropriate to function as an authorised state auditor. And there's still a new setup to be added, so a new line, not to be a member of any supervisory board. Therefore, in Article 18, this should be added, and then Article 20 does not require to discuss the supervisory board only of the organisation, the firm, the institution in which the state audit is carried out. It is sufficient to add to Article 18 that it is not a member of any supervisory board. Nevertheless, the HDSSB club will be in favour of adopting this legislative proposal. The only thing I'm a little interested in is Article 21, which states that an authorised state auditor has the right to pay, compensation instead of salary for the prevention of work, possibly maternity or so, pension, disability insurance, holidays, leave, compensation for a separate life from a family, transport costs, fees for official travel, professional training and other material rights", which are not actually listed which rights. I don't know them, but the unspeakable other material rights are a bit of a strange setting and a strange definition. It could have been a lot more specific. If already such a precise description of all possible rights that have or are impossible then it could be clarified what other material rights are. Here I am saying, the HDSSB club will be for this legislative proposal, but here I had to explain some of the articles and views of the HDSSB on the overall audit and the State Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65685	Thank you. An individual debate. Madam representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65686	Thank you very much, Your Honor. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. The primary task of the existence of the State Audit is to control the spending of public money and protect property owned and owned by units of local and regional self-government. The State Audit Office was founded in '93. And so far, we have to admit, very professionally and responsibly, he's been doing this demanding job of controlling taxpayers' money spending. We know that the annual volume of money consumption control, or money that was the subject of a state audit, has reached half of the state's domestic gross product. Reports from the State Audit Office regularly supported both positions and opposition in the House, which highlighted an extremely important, educational and anti-corruption role of the State Audit Office. However, it has been said much less that the State Audit Office has done a very large and valuable job, thus revising conversion and privatisation. Unfortunately, some other institutions have not continued to do this job, have not prosecuted many identified irregularities and illegalities so that thousands of pages of the review report on conversion and privatisation remain we can actually say a dead letter on paper. But the fact is that this finding exists and that it can always be used to launch appropriate procedures, this moreover, the more the last amendments to the Constitution have been put in place and the provision of non-depreciation of privatisation crime. The basic prerequisite for an effective review of the public sector as the one that manages public money is the independence of the state audit and this proposal of the law that we have today in the debate is ensured by a series of mechanisms: independence of the Head of the State Audit Office, sufficient broad powers with secure access to information and documents, freedom to formulate the content of audit reports, etc. The financial envelope and independence of the State Audit Office is defined by the formula that the State Audit Office plans the resources necessary for its work and is determined by the Croatian Parliament in the State budget. The independence and independence of the State Audit Office also stems from the fact that the salaries of authorised auditors are paid by the basis of a special law on the salaries of authorised state auditors. And after this introduction several remarks on the very text of the bill, since this is about first reading. I will agree with my colleague, Maric, who mentioned Article 8 of this bill. According to Article 8(3), the main public auditor shall be appointed at a time of eight years with the possibility of re-naming. I agree with the fact that eight years is too long a mandate and that it should be shortened to five years, with more which is just given the possibility of re-naming. For comparisons, let's say the term of office of the governor of the Croatian National Bank is 6 years, the chief state attorney for 4 years, etc. The same Article 8 of point 4 states: the main state auditor may, therefore, be appointed a citizen of the Republic of Croatia with a personal reputation and professional experience in the field of public finances. This formulation is not good because it turns out that the appointment of a person with such conditions is offered as one option, as one option. I think the formulation should read: a citizen of the Republic of Croatia should be appointed as chief state auditor with personal reputation and professional experience in the field of public finances. So not "can be appointed" but "named". Keep going. Article 10 sets out the tasks and powers of the Chief State Auditor and I do not understand why these tasks do not include the adoption of the Financial Plan of the State Audit Office. Because if the Chief State Auditor adopts the statutes, the strategic plan, the annual work programme and a number of other documents, why not also bring a financial plan to a team more than just Article 3 of the bill found that the State Audit Office independently plans the necessary financial resources, by establishing them by the Parliament in the state budget. Furthermore, in Article 11, which lists cases where the Chief State Auditor may be relieved of his duties before the end of his term of office. The last 4th indent reads: if convicted of a criminal offence which makes it unworthy to carry out the duties of the Chief State Auditor. I think that waiting for a powerful verdict for a criminal offence is actually too late to react because the chief state auditor remains actually working in the system for a long time from the moment the crime was committed to the moment the judgment was handed down. For the sake of comparison, let's say that a civil servant is suspended at the time of the initiation of a criminal offence that has sinned against the rules of his service. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, it was said that one of the possible sanctions moves in this regard, so if something significant happens that compromises the work of the Chief State Auditor, i.e. the State Audit Office for which the Chief State Auditor is responsible, that his annual report is not accepted in the Assembly. However, we must consider that the report on work comes to the Parliament at a time-out of a full year compared to the period for which the report is drawn up, and that non-acceptation of the annual report is also one delayed reaction. Therefore, given the fact that reputation and honor are, of course, the main requirements for the appointment of the State’s chief auditor, it would indeed be appropriate to compromise the reputation and honor of the State’s auditor, so that this is already the reason for its resolution before the ordinary expiry of his term of office. This for so long until a moral cleansing occurs in Croatia, one catharsis, until the official is able to resign himself. So that resignation becomes a moral act, that is, an act of responsibility to the citizens. Here are two examples. For example, the resignation of the Scottish minister of traffic a few days ago because of the fact that the roads of traffic were conditioned by snow and ice. Or also the recent resignation of the Japanese Minister of Justice because of an unsalted joke he made at his expense, which could result in a lack of financial assistance from a part of the Japanese economy. In that sense, in the sense of resignation as a moral act, I was also impressed by the words spoken by the judge explaining the inadequacy of the former defence minister and his assistant in the affair truck. She literally said, taxpayers do not pay officials to be obedient, but to work in the interest of Croatia, or to protect the interests of its citizens. And while I mention this affair, many have really wondered how it was that exactly the State Audit Office did not see anything concrete, although year after year it gave a conditional opinion on the work of the Ministry of Defence because the ministry repeated the same irregularities, the same illegalities, and it also showed high losses. Therefore, this legislative proposal that we are discussing today should achieve this functional and financial independence of the State Audit Office, which should ensure that all those who were listeners are identified and were not good masters of the public money of Croatian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65687	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65688	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's why we're passing the new State Audit Office Act. It is also said in the opening statement and the reasoning of the law. One section refers to compliance with European legislation, the other part of which we are inculcating in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 54 now said that the State Office is the highest audit institution, that it is independent and independent in its work. And if we're going to evaluate the work of the review so far then and through these discussions here now in the assembly itself, but also on committees, it actually got a passing and a very high grade. Founding the State Audit Office in '93. In fact, we have introduced a new one in control, i.e. monitoring the budget spending of state and public, state-owned enterprises and public institutions, local self-government, so everything that has been so far has not actually been controlled. This was, in addition to commercial audit and internal audit, so commercial audit in the private sector was actually a novelty. Until then, until that year, the social bookkeeping service at the time, through its external control, actually controlled the business of the then social or state-owned enterprises. So, a very important institution that had just formed, which had one course. So, where people were also learning, but we who read their reports could actually monitor the progress of these services, that is, those institutions, and all of those entities that you as the State Office have audited. I remember the first report in 1995, '95. The year we were almost fragrant as they were being led, not only spent the funds, but how much trouble there was in keeping the documentation itself. So, in what the accountants call neat or messy accounting and how that progress is nevertheless visible in the latest reports when now our State Audit Office is actually what counterpart Antunović said and the more phases that the State Audit should be doing is also giving us an assessment of the economics of budget spending. So, we have to start from that review to control the documentation. She can't get into some essential evaluations. Here's what happens if we talk to a colleague named Linic earlier, for example, how much does a mile of highway cost? For this we should have special experts and perform other controls and analyses, not just documentation. So, then you should also consider what is often a question, so often here in Parliament why the State Audit does not take certain criminal measures. She can't do it by law and international standards. That is why she gives us the Report here to the Croatian Parliament, the units of local and regional self-government and we are the ones who need to assess in which case we should actually be the ones to refer such documentation to the relevant state institutions. If we do not do so by law and by these international standards, the State Review cannot do so and should be repeated. We can't leave some sense of irresponsibility to that office that doesn't even have such a responsibility. I would especially highlight here the huge work that the State Audit has done with its regular law established business. By adopting the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, we entrusted this huge, difficult and complicated business to the State Audit Office at the time, assessing that it was the most competent institution that could carry out an audit of something in public, in public perception whether to say conditionally criminally, that there was a lot of irregularities, illegality had just been determined by the State Audit. And I will repeat here today that the State Audit reports on the revision of the conversion and privatisation of particularly coupon privatisation are today current, that these reports include all irregularities that have been identified, therefore all illegalities, that even the realization of contracts and contracts undertaken by those who should have done so when they are owned by the shares, have been identified and responsible persons. Unfortunately, some other institutions that had to do the job couldn't do it, didn't do it. I still remember the report of the DORH State Office that was given to us after the State Audit Office's final report, that they can't act on all the findings because they don't have enough judicial experts for economic crime. So now that we have also said by the Constitution that the illegality of conversion and privatisation does not go out of date, we already have a deeper record on which it could begin with work. And to say that the State Audit Office is not only a control and supervisory institution, it has been an educational institution in all these 17 years that has actually taught people who, who run bookkeeping, accounting and finance from the state and all the lower. And I would also say that this law is good, with some small repairs he could really be a law that would be worth a long time. We here in Article 6(3) said that the audit of the state budget is carried out every year. So far, we have often heard from the chief state auditor that because each year, along with the state budget, all units of local and regional self-government are audited, so almost 600 or over 600 of them are not possible to perform a more frequent review of major state systems, and they have been done each other, thirdly, and sometimes in shorter periods, and I think it is good to say it now, but I will say something after the way that this subject is being reported. I also think that Article 8 is necessary to avoid just such political connotations in the appointment of the main state auditor, which has not been the case so far. So far, the main state auditor has been elected with the most possible majority, if not unanimously in the Croatian Parliament, but we are already witnessing that the current, therefore current state auditor was not elected to such a majority, but was chosen only by the parliamentary majority. Whether it will be a public tender, or it will be a public call, that it is possible to do so I will only illustrate with two examples. Public calls include tenders for constitutional judges, but public calls also include candidates for external members of parliamentary committees, so why not even when candidates for the main state auditor are gathered. And when I said that I was going to say something about the work programme, then I think you should consider whether there's a possibility of saying something by law within which deadlines would be revised by state, the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government, i.e. large state systems, etc. We say that every second year, then in one year, the state budget could be revised by the units of local and regional self-government, and next year with the state budget and let's say big state systems, such as HEP, such as railways and some other institutions, especially for example. undertakings of particular national interest which are established each year by a decision on the list of such state-owned enterprises. So I think everything else is acceptable, with some small remarks we've heard through this debate, and I hope they're not that kind of nature to violate the concept of the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65689	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65690	We move on to the proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 667. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the next conclusion, firstly the proposal for a Law on the State Office for Audit, second all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? This conclusion was reached by most votes, 116 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65691	We are going to the last point and tonight, among other things - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Foundation "Croatia for Children", second reading, P.Z. No. 622 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity Stjepan Adanic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65692	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The final draft law was built on the basis of opinions delivered in the Croatian Parliament, and the opinions of the competent central authorities of the state administration. The proposal of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament was accepted and the words of the single-parent family were deleted from the law, since this concept was used together with the concept of single parent. The proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport for the addition of a provision laying down the right to support its children is not accepted, for the reason that this is already contained in the provision of Article 4(1), subparagraph 5 of the Law. Proposals from Parliament's representative Sima Djurdjevic were not accepted for the reason that proposals are presented as an integral part of the regular activities of the ministry responsible for the education of local and regional (regional) self-government units, or the proposed programmes are already being implemented, or will be implemented through the foundation, such as scholarships to secondary school students, support to associations or are part of the programme activities of family centres conducted by schools for parents. For the purpose of nomotechnical regulation of the law, opinions of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Administration and the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been adopted. What are the reasons for this law? Based on an analysis of the report on the work of the "Croatia for Children" Foundation in 2009, as well as the introduction of national population policy and its objectives in certain areas, and the "Croatia for Children" Foundation Act, it is estimated that existing legal solutions do not realise the possibility of an affirmative role of the foundation in creating a stimulating... intended for children, parents and families. [[You don't understand.]] We also estimate that a foundation without an established professional service and relevant auxiliary bodies, or commissions, can hardly achieve an existing but newly expected role under the existing conditions. What is proposed by the final proposal of the law? Therefore, according to the national population policy tasks, the circle of beneficiaries of the right to trust, and families that do not have five or more children, and which form the target group. As users of the support provided, legal persons are also offered in the activities of education and education, social care, health care, if this support is intended for children, pregnant women and births. According to this proposal, support can be achieved for example. The children's clinic Zagreb in Klaic Street for children with malignancies or one of the hospitals in the Republic of Croatia can be given support in money for the purchase of adequate equipment for the treatment of children or in cooperation with school on an island or mountainous area to ensure the implementation of a programme intended for children and families living in the area. The possibility of a financed professional service from a trust fund of 7% of the annual income of the trust is explicitly prescribed. The obligation to comply with the general acts of the Foundation with these amendments and additions to the laws, which means extending the powers of the Management Board, increasing the presence of the Foundation's commission in proposing support and supervision in the use of funds of the Foundation, is also prescribed. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65693	Thank you. The Committee on Law, Family, Youth and Sports? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mrs. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65694	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Well, as we could hear from the previous, in fact, that in 2009 the foundation helped single-time money support children from multiple families, children without both parents, approved scholarships, also helped treat a seriously ill child, and during 2010 spent summer and winter programmes, and by changing acts will also be scholarshipd to high school students. It has been shown through the application that directing support to users cannot affirm a trust in its full meaning. This relates to the possibility of providing direct support to the programme in the field of child care, the protection of mother and child, and the education and education in parts not financed by the state budget. The 2009 report shows that the foundation once donated children from multi-member families, children without both parents, which is very significant, and we should continue to cultivate just such a model of childcare without both parents, especially in the part where we talk about deinstitutionalising child care without adequate parental care. She approved further scholarships and implemented the programme of summering of children from several families was realized in collaboration with the Croatian Red Cross, the Society of Zagreb, and somewhere slightly less than 700 children and parents or foster parents from foster families with 5 children and more of them took vacations in Novi Vinodolski. And for the very end of this year, winter planned for about 200 children in Sljemen. The existing legal solutions contribute to better implementation of national population policy measures in the dimension of child care and the protection of motherhood and children. There is a more elastic approach to the implementation of specific objectives, especially in the area of the family support system, child care and the health care of mothers and children. The purpose of the foundation will also be extended to family users with a number of children or children from these families, and better cooperation with health, education and social institutions will be achieved. Better co-operation will also be achieved with institutions for the health care of pregnant women, births, mothers and newborns. There will also be better co-operation with units of local and regional self-government and public institutions to implement programmes intended for children and families, especially children living in poorly populated areas or traffic-insulated settlements. This certainly enables the use of cultural, sports, educational content in the free time of children, and certainly this contributes to reducing the consequences of the poor condition of users, raising the quality of their lives and the level of quality of their lives, psychosocial rehabilitation and empowerment of particularly physical, mental and spiritual health, as well as preventing or reducing the consequences of social, spatial, educational or cultural exclusion. The final proposal also addresses the issue, as we heard from the Secretary of State, the financing of the Foundation's professional service and its temporary and permanent commissions, resulting in faster data processing and faster implementation of the programme. The Foundation now employs 2 workers with the support of the relevant services of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and it is necessary to establish a professional foundation service with the required number of employees and temporary and permanent commissions. It is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget for the adoption of this law. The fund is funded, we also heard, from the revenue of games fortunately under the law. The funds for the work of the foundation shall be secured from the income of the trust and shall not exceed 7% of the total revenue of the trust from the budget year. It should certainly also be pointed out that a special information block has been opened on the website of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, so far this has not been the case through previous readings, for a trust, which is certainly a contribution to informing the public about the trust and the possibilities of support by the foundation. Finally, the HDZ club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65695	Thank you. SDP club, Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65696	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Here is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund "Croatia for Children" is actually a positive shift in relation to the one that was before, in fact, more his purpose was to empower a family with more children. This is what we said last time that we did not understand why and in what respect children from multiple families are initially considered to be endangered and suspended and whypriors are assumed to be more deprived of other children in material rights and possibilities, for example. unemployed parents, parents who are sick, unable to earn money, then single parents or children with some illnesses. I will repeat what I said before, discrimination against families with fewer children will not trigger Croatia as well as a natal policy because if the family can't support one, two children certainly can't help the state or without a basic inventive mechanism, which is actually a workplace, there won't be a third child or more. We believe, of course, that every child has a chance. The equality of opportunities for a child is certainly one of the fundamental formulations, i.e. the foundation of democracy formation. Some of our remarks and the past have been accepted, but some have remained. I'm just going to read one answer to one of our remarks that was to secure from this trust funds for those children living in families, who earn an average income less than a certain amount, for example. a thousand 663 kn per household membership. In response, however, we have received that the activity of the foundation is not directed towards children and families with a higher number of children of weaker property than to their children and families with many children. We wonder what's more important, that everyone has a chance or that they're privileged children in families with more children. The 2009 report shows everything the foundation did, that I'm not repeating now. There were 21 requests for support, then the money was donated to children, a thousand 260 children, then 65 children without both parents were also granted scholarships, going to winters. The foundation provided for the treatment of one seriously ill child, further various other support was given, and family assistance in the house where the four were born. So what I said next will go to winter, etc. As we can see, the existing solution from the foundation’s activities has largely gone in the direction of helping named users. It means family or children. However, it is one of the forms of action of the foundation. And now, during the application of the Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation and in the first months of 2010 it was observed that these existing legal solutions do not give the right opportunity to achieve other purposes of directing the support of the foundation. But that's for example. the possibility to provide direct support for the development and application of programmes in the field of child care, the protection of mother and child, and the education and education in parts not financed from the state budget. This way, if programmes are financed, more children will be affected. This is also the case with Article 4.a. Further out of the interest of the institutions of local and regional (regional) self-government units and through the operation of the foundation, one step has been made to upgrade the purpose, so it is actually an opportunity to help children who are living in traffic-insulated, poorly populated areas, rural areas, mountainous and islandous areas that are actually threatened by the depopulation. The law also mentions the incompletely regulated issue of funding of the Foundation’s professional service. Here and just before, Mr. Secretary of State said that we should do the commission as soon as possible, as far as the better work of the foundation itself is concerned. However, I repeat now the question that has been raised by us before or before, and this is a fee to the manager, which is said by law that you have explained by law what is said by the Foundation Act, but it is unclear what is the appropriate fee. In fact, Article 1 in this law speaks of a purpose, and in that purpose we see that an extended purpose is, that it is not only a purpose that refers to a family with more children, we welcome it. In addition, Article 2 provides support users, which is a family that has at least 5 children or children from that family in the joint household. Then it is a family that has a residence and a permanent stay in the area of special state care, a family that resides and constantly resides on a sparsely populated island or in a mountainous area or a child from that family. Then the families of single parents are listed, then the families are pregnant, a mother with health risks and risks of education, social, cultural exclusion, a visitor to the commission of course foundation. Article 6 shall refer to the means of work. It also lists funds for the work of the permanent occasional commissions' professional services as being secured from the fund's income and cannot amount to more than 7% of the total revenue of the fund for the financial year in question. Therefore, we can recapture the areas of work of this foundation in the family support system, I think it's a good thing that you left quite a broad, general finding, which is to create assumptions for quality family life and quality parenting, which enables you to be more likely, i.e. a positive response to the various needs that will come over time, because it was seen that the work so far only during the work is seen in the essence of all the needs on the ground. Then it's childcare. I will set out here to specify the area and quality of institutional and non-institutional care for children. That's where I'll look only at kindergartens most often without logos and defecologists. Unfortunately, I can conclude that there is often one child with special needs in the group. And part of the aunts that do it first face that fact. Children with special needs are well-accepted in kindergarten and it should be nurtured, and affirmations in society give everyone a boost. Other children also sensitize, accept differences, and, of course, experience empathy, which is good for rearing. Then you state the health care of the mother and child, stating that there is a need to create assumptions for better and all available health care. It's also quite broadly left so that given the kind of claims you get that you can positively solve what I say. And I hope that this foundation will be able to get funds and various associations with developmental difficulties. I'll only mention a couple, two rocks and a center for education and counselling and the sun, a variety of therapeutic educations or civil society that have other means of funding, but I think this foundation, by its very name, should naturally finance it. As well as the project of teaching assistants, you said that the programme that is very good for inclusive education, but it was a pilot program and most often such programs remain local self-government to collect through various actions, and let's say I see the possibility and through this foundation that funds for such programmes could be obtained. Therefore, I will conclude that this foundation called "Croatia for Children" is obliged to give every needed child a chance and that is why I think that this foundation, that if there are any changes and additions that we will only be spreading the purpose and possible users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65697	Thank you. HNS-HSU club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65698	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In October of this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Foundation of the "Croatia for Children" and referred the applicant to the remarks, proposals and opinions to prepare a final draft of the law. Some suggestions here, as we have heard in the opening statement of Mr. Secretary of State, have been adopted, and some rejected, so today we have a proposal for a law that is more specifically considering the purpose of establishing a foundation. The fund shall be determined by the purpose of the type and method of reaching individual forms of support, by the users of the support, by the legal persons who may be the beneficiaries of the support. It also provides for the possibility that a trust through its own programmes or joint programmes with one or more users of legal persons and the conditions for the provision of support by legal persons shall be laid down. The powers of the Management Board shall be further regulated and the rules laid down by law shall also be settled, subject to the financing of the Foundation’s professional service and its commissions. The latter states that the foundation currently employs two workers at the workplace of an administrative clerk and a lawyer. The Foundation relied on the assistance of the relevant services of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. As regards the above, and given the needs and possible scope of the Foundation's work, further progress in the work of the Foundation cannot be expected unless a professional foundation service with a minimum number of staff is established and a temporary and permanent commission of the Foundations is established. That's how it is in this bill of law. There are a few questions for me and a few remarks. First, as has been said to date, the foundation has sought and received assistance from the relevant services of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. We at the HNS-HSU Club welcome such assistance and cooperation and appeal to continue such cooperation. Which will be consistent with today's current moment, will be consistent with the need for saving. Second, it is not explained in the opening section that these are the new needs of the foundation or new tasks, new jobs from which a larger professional foundation service should be established. And the possible greater scope of work, according to the law, cannot be a reason for a numerical increase in employees. Thirdly, permanent commissions also need to have a basis and arguments, so they should be incorporated into this bill. The introductory part of the law discusses the scholarships awarded in 2009. In that part, I had the question again how and why only 54 scholarships for students were awarded, and the competition called for the possibility of a thousand such scholarships. This year has been approved for the academic year 2010/2011. 996 scholarships. That's good, that's great, according to the competition it was possible to share a thousand scholarships for our students. This year, a public tender was also launched for high school students under which a thousand scholarships per 500 kuna could also be awarded. The criteria were met and the scholarship was only given to 437 high school students. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm asking why that is. It seems to me that this was about the lack of information and criteria, and I know and I think that all colleagues and colleagues know, given the moment that the need for high school students is far, far more than it could have been and what was divided into this competition. So the funds have, the funds are secured, the criteria are too high and there are only 437 young people who get a chance to school in high schools. That's not good. Either we cut the criteria or we have to explain why the funds remain unused, there's no third for me. In the end, I would especially like to underline the sentence mentioned in this bill. It is said that special attention will be paid to gifted children and children from rural and smaller urban settlements. Looking at the list of all those who received scholarships, or scholarships to high school, I have noticed that there are indeed a lot of children from these rural, or smaller urban villages. I especially urge that these parts of our homeland, namely this young population, be taken into special consideration in the work of your trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65699	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65700	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with all those who have supported this final bill in this debate, especially in the part relating to the increase in the number of users or potential, or future users of this Foundation. And I personally as well as we stayed from the SDP when we discussed the law when we passed it in 2008 exactly as the main objection to this Act said what actually the customers of the foundation Croatia for children can be only those families with a number of children, i.e. children from multiple families, and I must admit that here after the delay she found some observation that actually the possibility of using funds from the Children's Foundation is extended to all those children who are actually in need regardless of which families they come from, or whether they come from a family with more or less members. It took two years to correct this injustice, but we are glad that it has somehow corrected itself, and I think we can all agree that a child is in need regardless of whether there are four, five, or no one. So in that part is absolutely good at this expansion that is proposed here. I can only conclude that I am sorry that it did not occur and immediately because it seems to me that a part of the needy children, or needy families, could accomplish their assistance before. Secondly, I like it and I support the fact that the General Act of the Foundation has been amended in the sense that high school scholarships can also be made. In spite of the fact that the measures of population policy, i.e. population policy, have established that all children receive free textbooks, that transport is paid to high school students for reasons other than that of the population policy, so to speak, by a political decision from Parliament, and population policy measures have been suspended and abolished, and therefore, at the proposal of the Government of Ms Kosor, the transportation for high schoolers has been abolished, free textbooks that I repeat were originally a measure of population policy and it is good that perhaps even through this Law open space for at least one part of those children who were originally public policy should be included, in fact, all of those most needed are included in receiving these funds or state aid. So I don't have any dilemmas about it. I have a Mr. Secretary of State dilemma or a question about the very application of this law. This is all if the law was read in isolation only in its own situation. The situation could say something better than it's ever been before. However, when we look at how this will be applied especially when we coordinate it with a holding budget, I don't think we can be satisfied. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if you know it, and I hope you know that since we made the state budget a month ago. In the 2011 State Budget, the funds for this Fund Croatia for children are reduced by the Government of Ms Kosor's proposal and by the will of most of you from HDZ by more than 30%. Last year, we had 9 million 468 thousand and 602 kuna for the Children's Foundation. In the 2011 budget, with the will of you from most HDZ, we will have 6 million 242 thousand and 72 kuna, which is a reduction of just over 3 million and 200000 kuna. And I wonder what is really the consistency of all these solutions. On the one hand, the regulation extends the number of children, or families, who will be able to benefit from the Foundation. That's okay, but on the other hand, we're down 30% of the Foundation's funds. And that story doesn't stop. This law introduces new administrative bodies in the Foundation, introduces new working bodies that will actually have to decide and say that they can spend up to 7% of the budget. That hasn't happened yet. So, in a situation of crisis, in a situation where needy children are even more necessary to me not only that for 30%, i.e. you from most reduce funds for the "Children's Foundation" rather than determine that up to 7% of the Foundation's income can be spent on something that has nothing to do with children but nothing to do with it. And so, Mr. Secretary of State, I am afraid that all the good intentions that were in the law were initial opinion in terms of extending the number of users, and that seems to me to be a significant increase in the number of potential users of this Foundation, in fact, in some way because of the state budget that it is, and that is the will of most of this Parliament, it seems to me to be falling into the water. And unfortunately, it wouldn't be the first time that we have something declared, that we have something prescribed, and then in the implementation, we have something completely different, almost diametric opposite. So I have to admit, I don't like that part at all. It doesn't seem to me to be a good policy team anymore that some of the other foundations established by this Croatian Parliament that, at some point in the early years, received funds primarily, say the Higher Education and Science Foundation during the year, have come to say that we now have zero kunas from that Foundation. In the meantime, we've changed the law that reduced our trust fund. The whole idea of the foundation is that it accumulates capital and then out of that capital, in fact the income from that capital is simply creating new values and increasing the fund that can be paid for a trust fund. Therefore, it is a serious obstacle to the application of this law and, in fact, in the fact that all that you have suggested as a matter of fact well to this amendment of the law gets its reality. And in the end, only two things. Mr. Secretary of State says here that the Foundation is financed among other things and the winnings of the games are fortunate. As far as I'm aware, this rule hasn't been changed, so I'm curious to know how much funds the Foundation has made to control this revenue games of chance. That's the first one. And two. I think we need to demystify some things about population policy. When we talk about population policy, we usually talk or some talk to these multi-member families, etc. My colleagues and colleagues, today is our battle for another child. Our average family is 1.7 in the Republic of Croatia. The battle is therefore for the second child, and we need to be a priority in some way to encourage the second child, and in urban environments, even the first child. Therefore, if in any way we might be able to take the pre-radimental or to understand or rather conservatively understand population policy in a way that is aimed only at multi-member families, it seems that we are not doing well. Their numbers are down. They are indeed in a special need. They really need help. However, the focus in population policy must be changed with these multi-member families because they do not have this population problem because they are more family members, and this shows that parents have decided on more children, and we need to change our focus in population policy to encourage the second child, i.e. in urban environments and in the more educational population to the first child. And in that sense, in some future for some two years, it may again succeed in revising this bill as you have exploited the one in 2008 with the expansion of every child and not just the one in a multi-member family. But I repeat all this will remain colleagues and colleagues a dead letter on paper, due to the consequences of the budget that we have, or which you have brought with your own free will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65701	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65702	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I didn't mean to speak, but here's the answer to a few questions from the MPs. As far as gambling revenues are concerned, I must say, the foundation is making all the receipts from the games of chance. So none of the only kunas get out of the state budget, so that's all, all the revenues are the revenues from gambling, except the initial funds from the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity... Of the 100,000 kuna we gave. [[You don't understand.]] As for the compensation to the manager, the manager didn't get a single kuna fee, and all the funds went to the kids. So the manager works for free. That manager is me, the temporary manager, that means doing these things. As for the individual rights of children, or individual, means families that have one child, and not more children, I must say that, more children, I must say that we have opened up the possibility in the old law, i.e.... The law that is now in force, and even in this law that is possible, means that it is possible to finance means a child from that family, means one child, but we went to several children, because that is what the national population policy, which was adopted in 2006. [[You don't understand.]] But also don't forget that every child who receives a child's allowance, the third and fourth children receive the ultimate supplement, means the third and fourth children of 500 kuna. That's why we went to fifth, sixth, and it means more children, because these children, so the first child, second, third and fourth in some way, are insured, but we have left the possibility that these children also get certain financial resources, if they are in a difficult material position, if they need it, if they are gifted, if they are sick, if they are in need and if they are normally proposed by their local environment or by any of us. As for the esteemed parliamentary attorney, she went outside, asked me about the criteria. Yes, we opened a bid last year for a thousand scholarships for students, but we had criteria I would say normal, but in these normal criteria according to the signs of quotes, only 56 unfortunately went through students. We've seen that these criteria are possibly a little too high, we've cut those criteria, and we've really cut down, and we can't further reduce the criteria, because we're going to come into a very unpleasant, simply unpredictable situation. We've drawn a line below which we can no longer go. The result is that we have called this year a contest for a thousand scholarships and a thousand students where they appeared, as you can see they received scholarships of 996 students and 400 and some students, which is a big step. We can't go any further. And as for the activities of the foundation, I must say that this year we have already given hundreds of individual support to families to multiple, poor families, multiple births, in a difficult material situation, that 700 children were on vacation in the foundation organization, that 200 children will go to winter, that the tender of this trust has only two employees, one reference officer and one lawyer, all other jobs we do free of charge. So a contest has been launched for the weekend for 2,000 children poor from all over Croatia, and 300 children have already been on those weekend programs, and that we will continue with these programmes. And let's not forget this foundation that has an extremely large, extremely human role, it is founded to mean the encouragement of the then Deputy Prime Minister, today's Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, and I can tell you that this foundation will have great results in the future, especially this year, and in the coming year even greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65703	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 11 a.m. with a vote on the debated agenda points, and after that, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-14-0.u65704	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund "Croatia for Children", this is the second reading, P.Z. No. 622. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously with 121 votes.
