ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50753	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Just a very short one. Therefore, the Law on General Use Matters adopted by the Croatian Assembly on 13 July 2006, which basically has concerns about the protection of the health of the population, about the correctness of the product in the system of control of raw materials and additives. During the negotiations in Chapter I, the freedom of movement of goods according to the European Commission's opinion should exclusively harmonize the concepts of law, with a directive in which the term "healthiness" is therefore used, but security. In such a way you have before you a proposal to amend and supplement this law. And the amendments and additions to the sublegal acts that will be adopted until their adoption will be subject to current sublegal acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50754	Thank you very much. Do the work bodies want reporters? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50755	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 39th session, the Committee on Health and Social Care discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on general application matters with the final proposal for a law as a parent body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the basic reasons for proposing an amendment to this law. The members of the board supported the adoption of the law. With the existing law, the Republic of Croatia has accepted all requirements relating to the standard of quality and safety of the subject of general application, thus ensuring a high level of protection of human health. It is therefore pointed out in the debate, further provisions of the applicable law should be aligned with the concepts used in the legal property of the European Union. Namely, the legal property of the European Union does not know the concept of the health regularity of detergents and toys and as it is warned it does not know the concept of border products between cosmetics and medical products and neither does the term cosmetics with a special purpose. It also does not exist in the legal terminology of the European Union or these expressions, and the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union will cease to apply to the provisions of the Regulation on the health regularity of the wide-use case in the section relating to cosmetics with a special purpose. The amendment of the law provides that the Minister in charge of Health will adopt a regulation on the required scope and frequency of the examination of the subject matter of general application instead of a rule on the health law of the subject-matter of the general application as provided for in the applicable law. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on General Application Matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50756	Thank you. Do the other committee rapporteurs want to discuss it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50757	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that MPs and representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support the amendment of the Law on General Use Matters. The 2006 Law on general application items reached the level of protection of human health in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the subject matter of general application, the law defined the raw materials and additives used in the manufacture of those products. In 2009, the law was changed in order to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the provisions of the Treaty on European Community and the principle of mutual recognition. The prerequisite for the temporary closure of negotiations with the European Union in Chapter I of the Freedom of Movement is therefore this today's harmonisation. And today we have a situation where the legal property of the European Union does not know the following concepts in the laws governing the subject matter of general application. They're already mentioned here, but it's not a waste of me repeating them, because it's very important. The concept of health regularity of detergents and toys, the concept of border products between cosmetics and medical products, and the concept of cosmetics with special purpose. For these reasons, we must adapt our legislation to European legislation in a way that uses European terminology and tasks for the health ministries already mentioned. I personally regret that the negotiating teams cannot look at certain laws with all or at least a few aspects, so that changes or adjustments can be made unitedly, not as often as we have the case with this law. But we will uphold this law, or change of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50758	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50759	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a very short law from that series of laws relating to the chapter of freedom of movement of goods, and in the wider segment there is also a quality infrastructure which is an extremely important segment of the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. It is clear to each of us that one of the main pillars of the existence and establishment of the European Union is precisely freedom of movement of goods, therefore it is not surprising that in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as an instrument of receiving the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia must have a functional quality infrastructure, hence the system of accreditation, standardisation, measurement, conformity assessments, in order to meet all the preconditions for the Republic of Croatia to accept the entire acquis of the European Union and that its economy can function without a problem. And this very short law, which has only 6 articles and is essentially a further step in harmonising Croatian legislation, points out in fact all the problems of this quality infrastructure situation. In fact, in June 2009, when we last had that law, our negotiators knew for sure that there was no concept of the health regularity of detergents and toys in the acquis of the European Union. And here we are again harmonising the laws, simply because from a series of subjective reasons that objective reasons we can't do at once. However, this law also provides for rules in question to be adopted in Article 3 within 6 days of the adoption of this law, and that is where the problem lies. Namely, these rules are already obsolete and require that some standards, standards, some technical laws that are simply no longer valid, which are prevailing, which have been adopted new, not only at European Union level, but also in the Republic of Croatia. And this is not the first such case that we in the Parliament have almost been forced to pass some laws that actually require the Republic of Croatia to respect certain things that are simply not smart. For example, in regulations or laws, putting the saying and the year of issue of a certain norm or standards or a European directive, when it is known that this is simply not wise enough or on the other hand shows that our negotiators have not done a good job and have not been able to convince their European counterparts that something is actually impossible to look for. For example, the Law on Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products where some guidelines, the European Union Directives which are known to be in the process of change and should have changed within a few months, were asked to be included, for example, to find this law in front of us again, probably in the near future. Furthermore, one systematic, systematic problem that is being put before us is that when laws like this are passed, the technical laws are required by the competent ministries to adopt all the powers of the regulations within, within a certain time period, usually for a year, so all these rules are simply piled up and piled up, and we here in the Assembly don't actually have any more systematic insight of how the Government is doing and what dynamics we, as a Croatian Parliament, are imposing our adoption of the law. For example, a few weeks ago, we adopted the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act here where the minister's jurisdiction is mentioned in some, I counted that search function, in some 40 places. I ask the question, when will it arrive, when, of course, it is not the minister, but it is doing his professional service, but it is just coming up, no doubt there will be as much as it is coming, especially if we do not adopt these regulations in time, so at the moment when the Republic of Croatia is about to join the EU or when we enter full EU membership we can expect the right rush, the real eruption of the necessary regulations that will then have to be quickly passed because otherwise we will be in a very, very difficult position because of the fact that it will not be respected, in fact that our economy will be in a more unfavourable position. Therefore, the question is whether the EU will allow the closure of the chapter of freedom of movement of goods. It is because we in the House do the rules of the game, we make the laws, and in fact the measure, i.e. the rules according to which the system must function, and not far away, has not been established or adopted. The Honored Mr. Secretary of State does not refer exclusively to the ministry and, in fact, even with a smaller scope, to the Ministry of Health, related to quality infrastructure, the largest part of responsibility lies with the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Science as the competent Ministry of the National Measurement Institute. Dear Mr. Secretary of State here in these rules for which you in Article. 3. you are saying that you will change the rules within a year and condition, for example, that the biodegradability of detergents is measured by the methods of testing specified in the Appendix to that third Regulation on the health and safety of detergents, which was adopted in July 2007. Certainly, in July 2007, the EU did not know the health status of detergents. However, I welcome exactly these formulas that you put into that rule, if there were no buts. Namely, you have also entered a year of issue of certain technical standards which must then be respected so that the laboratories tested can be accredited and measured by what is, or questioned, what you are looking for by your regulation. The government should adopt the view that when it is already required to adopt certain laws or regulations, that is to say, to install certain standards or directives so as not to place explicit years of publication, rather than simply to state it as a general obligation, because in this way we are really creating ourselves even greater problems than we should actually have. In order for testing laboratories to be accredited and to provide their services to the economy, it is necessary to operate the entire system, to function both accreditation and standardisation and measurement. Croatia needs to have a functional, national measuring institute because otherwise laboratories have no place to measure. There is no place to obey this standard of 17 025. Unfortunately, however, this does not work with us and a large front of experts, scientists and civil servants working on this invisible segment, the public cannot, in consequence, carry out their duties and cannot, unfortunately, serve the Croatian economy as it would be necessary. However, I will say something about this in my own debate, and this law will be supported by an application to consider the possibility of at least a little shortening the time needed in which these rules will be adopted in order to legally regulate what is actually only understandable now and what actually works, but beyond the legal procedure because it is obsolete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50760	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50761	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. What is, in effect, the reason for the adoption of amendments to the Law on general application matters? In fact, in historical view of the Croatian Parliament, at its session of 13 July 2006, he passed the Law on General Use Matters and, of course, the basic objective was to protect his human health. It also discusses the concept of the subject matter of general application and the conditions to be met with regard to health law by those items of general application. The General Application Control System, the rights, duties and powers of the competent authorities in relation to general application cases produced in the Republic of Croatia or imported and placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia are further tasks of the existing law. I also point out that the provisions of this law apply to both raw materials and additives for the production of general use items. In 2009, the said law was nomulated to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. 28, 29 and 30. The Treaty on European Community on the basis of the principle of mutual recognition arising from the case law of the European Court and of Justice. A colleague Franjic said we have six articles in this law, so I will highlight the two most important things that I think are important. First of all, I will point out Article 1 of the General Application Act, in Article 7(3), the health correctness is deleted, and in paragraph 4 the health and safety of detergents are replaced by the words detergents. The reasons for the European Union, already said several speakers, do not know the concept of the health regularity of detergents and toys, and Article 1 of the proposed Law regulates that the Minister of Health will adopt a regulation laying down the safety of toys and a rule on detergents. Here it is important to mention Chapter 1 means the free movement of goods through which our legislation with the European Union must be harmonised. And I will now conclude, at the end of my debate with Article 5, the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the provisions of Article 3(4) of Articles 19 and 24 shall cease to apply. Regulation on the health regularity of the subject-matter of the general consumption in the part in which they relate to cosmetics with a special purpose. These Chapter 4 border products between cosmetics and medical products, and Annex 12 to the authorisation of plant species for cosmetics with special purpose of the same Regulation. As regards financial resources, the implementation of the proposed Law will not require funding from the state budget. I will uphold this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50762	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50763	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the articles of general use are materials and objects that come in direct contact with food and articles of broad consumption. Materials and articles that come in direct contact with food, these are dishes, accessories, devices and packaging, and items of extensive consumption are therefore dishes, accessories and equipment for the production of cosmetic products such as children's toys, cleaning products in the household, tobacco, tobacco products, accessories for use and therefore cosmetics with special purpose and others not to mention everything. And it is certainly a very wide area that needs to be regulated, and that is why the 2006 law, as colleagues have said in order to protect the health of the public, has supervised the health of the goods, etc., but the legal gains of the European Union do not know this moment of health and safety, as the Secretary of State has said, and we must follow this chapter of freedom of movement, so we must make certain changes, although we have already made a certain change in cosmetics with a special purpose in 2009 and we see that it is still subject to this amendment, and it was quite questionable, that application at that time was the actual corticosteroids in cosmetics with special purpose. And in that sense, we come to that change, and then the Minister of Health and Social Care will issue a rule that will regulate the safety of detergents and children's toys, and of course there are cosmetics with special purpose and these border products between cosmetics and medical products. There is another point to be mentioned here that in the rules so far, I would say between the deterigene ministries, there was also a need to show the Minister of Environmental Protection, or, for example, children's toys, although this is a question of children's toys, in the last debate I remember very well, because it is a very important health correctness and if we go to that environment, because both children and these toys are put in their mouths, so for me it is a little questionable question, but in any case, therefore, about this harmonisation of the Treaty of 28, 299 and 30 regarding accession, so this chapter is what we need to do and I certainly believe that it will simplify and improve that area for that reason I will support the amendment of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50764	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50765	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, therefore, one of the detergents is probably the greatest risk of biodegradability in the environment and those known to be a very serious environmental polluter. Which, of course, should be checked by letting the detergents into the market. This shall be checked in trained laboratories accredited to international standards related to the operation and functioning of European accreditation according to krilatics has been tested once, if such detergent or product has been tested in another European Union country, it is then acceptable for the whole market. Also domestic detergents if their compliance with the requirements of European requirements is being examined in the Republic of Croatia, in the case of Croatian laboratories, the recent Croatian accreditation agency has passed the accreditation process itself with the European Accreditation Agency and the mutual agreement is under way. Therefore, any examination of Croatian laboratories conducted by Croatian laboratories has been accepted throughout the European Union. And that's exactly where we get the difficulty because you in your rules well imagined the whole operation if it wasn't for that but. In fact, with us, the Croatian Measurement Institute is simply not working, although we have committed ourselves to signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement as a mechanism for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. By unbundling from the National Bureau of Measurement, the Croatian Measurement Institute should have been established, it should have been allocated funds for normal work. But it wasn't done regardless of what was appointed director and what was appointed administrative council, but it was just an empty shell without a metric. Moreover, two national mass laboratories in density lost their traceability because the state did not or did not give them sufficient resources to measure their instruments, measure their weights. Therefore, they are no longer able to perform the function of measuring scales, weights, instruments from other test laboratories in the Republic of Croatia that have this need. And I would like to remind you that the accreditation of test and artificial laboratories, that is, those conformity testing bodies in the Republic of Croatia, is still going on an exponential curve. There are now around 170 which points to this quiet front of Croatian scientists, experts, engineers who recognize the need to import scientific-academic activities with the economy. However, measuring their instruments related to mass and density in Croatia can no longer be done, because two Croatian modes have lost traceability and now this is happening to Croatian laboratories and even laboratories from a wider environment, for example from Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we covered the entire Bosnian inspection in Croatia. It is no longer possible and is now being implemented in other countries, for example in Slovenia. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, you come from the Ministry of Health, so you probably don't know the fact that it costs 4000 800 euros to measure in Slovenia, unlike in Croatia, which costs 6 thousand kuna. And now we're losing that infrastructure. I ask the question, how will all these things that are beautifully drawn in our laws and our rules be respected, even in this regulation that you intend to rewrite within a year, even though it would be necessary to process faster because of the simplicity and inability to comply with certain provisions that are incorporated into it. The Republic of Croatia has one systemic problem, which is that we accept laws only seem to satisfy the form, in order to meet negotiations with the European Union. And when those laws need to be respected, then we're in bigger trouble. Such an approach we never have, but we will never close chapter 1. - Freedom of movement of goods, because even negotiators from the European Union are not naive to see what we are doing and that we are fictitiously adopting legislation that we do not respect at all. The National Measurement Institute was one of the criteria for the chapter Freedom of Movement of Goods as early as 2006. But now it's past 2006, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth still hasn't been put into operation as it is. Well, we were one of the special states in Europe that adopted the Convention on the Meter. Some measuring rules have not also been adopted because of our government’s trombones, so some provisions are in force that are no longer even scientifically justified. So these are just some small examples of system failure and that system that we're all looking forward to. State of knowledge, pervading with the scientific-academic community, creating some knowledge-based products. And here are the examples of practice, unfortunately, say that this is not so and that it goes very, very hard and slow and consequently. There is much, much work to be done to establish a functional system, and especially should be done by the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture to address these technical problems as soon as possible. And I think it would be very good, very smart for the Parliament to get a report on the speed and method of making the rules that we force the Government to pass by adopting our laws. And I know Mr. Secretary of State that these segments don't apply to the Ministry of Health, but try to do something to get rid of that part of your system without which your laws won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50766	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50767	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few indications regarding these amendments to the Law on General Uses which, in its scope, when we view these 6 articles as minor but in their own sense, certainly point to one basic point, which is that there is no closure of the chapters that we have opened and which are not fully in line with European legislation during the negotiations. In this case we are talking about cases of general application, tomorrow it will probably be the Aid Act which, until we agree with Europe, there is no closure of Chapter 11 on agriculture and rural development and normally all those open chapters. Therefore, opening a negotiating chapter does not mean that the negotiations on it are concluded. That is why I believe that this change has its meaning as well to close this chapter 1 and it is about freedom of movement of goods. The issue of freedom of movement of goods is certainly significant and this has been discussed in previous discussions. However, I think that for us, regardless of the law, it is significant how and in what way we will solve this problem and how and how we will protect citizens from bad or something that can endanger them from general use. Why is it special and important for us, and it is necessary to say this? Well, it's because we and the country where all kinds of goods and all kinds of items are being used in general because we're unfortunately a country that's more of an importer than an exporter. Our balance sheet is a negative ratio of imports of exports and in all this is also one of the items and significant items is both imports and detergents and toys and bohemians when we watch cosmetics because those of our many, those of our productions that we once had were Saponia etc. They are no longer as significant as they used to be and this cosmetics is one of the examples of imports. Why is that significant? Well, it's important that we have all kinds of products that are imported. For example, we had examples of toys that came and came in containers from overseas countries of the Far East where we also have problematic colors for children's health, toys from which the hairs fall off, toys played by our children are located in shops and that the safety of these toys is very important for the population of children or parents when buying toys to their children. Normally, it is often both insufficient and sanitary control at the border and border controls, research and laboratory tests that counterpart Franic was talking about. And that is why it is certain that this kind of change that speaks about the safety of the toy and not just health care, but if the toy is safe, then it must probably be medically correct. Therefore, in that part, I certainly believe that the safety rules of these toys that will be passed and that it will then be understood that this toy, if it is safe, must also be medically correct. It's also the same question as detergents, cosmetics. In many cases, they can at least cause certain allergies, not to say some weightier diseases in users and it is also important to ask that in the composition of such detergents, cosmetics have no ingredients that will pollute the environment by releasing through the unknown and by rejecting such cosmetics or such detergents in nature. That is why I believe that this amendment and this amendment to the law are in place and that they should be in a more secure position to use these items in general and I think that I also believe that these amendments to the Law on general application matters should be supported, but I also consider that there is one obligation to reduce the time of the adoption of the Regulation. Why is that necessary? Well, it's because often times and good laws if they don't have the necessary rules then often times and they're not being implemented, or there's a dead end, and that good idea doesn't work out as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50768	Thank you very much. There's no interest in the closing word. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide later. Third. Final proposal for a law amending the Law on general application matters. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 518. The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Zdenko Franic. I would like the Secretary of State of State, Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, to be shown on Mr. Zdenko Franic's submission to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50770	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. In the process and the process of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and with the acquis of the European Union, it is necessary to ensure the preconditions for the current harmonisation to be implemented, as well as for the system to which it relates to the smooth functioning and implementation of the regulations. According to the planned harmonisation of the proposed deadline of one year, we consider it appropriate and necessary for... the proceeds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50771	Thank you. Mr. Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50772	Mr. Secretary of State, sir, but this regulation in question contains certain provisions that are no longer possible to be complied with because in the meantime, it has changed the legislation, standards and norms and you are conditional upon this regulation that certain laboratories act in a way that I cannot act on. And it should, or at least bring in an amendment and an addition to that rule so that it still stands for a year or a whole new rulebook. But I think that within six months, especially since today we are going to pass this law that it is a perfectly appropriate time for both the rules in question and the consequences to be adopted and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50773	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on general application matters. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 108 votes for, nothing abstentions and 1 against. We're moving on to the next point. - Final draft law supplementing the 1996 Protocol Confirmation Act with the 1976 Convention on Minimum Standards of Commercial Ships, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 520 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Mario Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50775	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Since ancient sailboats, steamers and modern ships today are known to be the most crucial factor for safe sailing. According to the results of the International Maritime Organisation and national shipping security institutions, up to 75% of all maritime accidents have been found to be the result of human factors. For these reasons, the International Maritime Organisation and the International Labour Organisation pay particular attention to the human factor, primarily through the adoption of international instruments governing the social and working conditions on board ships. In maritime circles, the rule applies that only a highly educated seafarer, socially provided with appropriate working and living conditions on board, can be a guarantee of safe navigation and protection against sea and ocean pollution. The Republic of Croatia, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has consistently implemented this practice of the International Maritime Organisation and I would say from the beginning. In fact, the Ministry of Sea Schools has been a student of maritime schools since the 1st grade of the High Sea School. Here's a few days ago, after 101 years of sea schools, we donated our first school ship. We have implemented social reform and we can say as a result of these activities that today the ships of Croatia belong to so-called state. the white list of the Paris Memorial. So by quality, according to the results of inspections around the world, we finally found one of the most developed maritime states. At the same time, Croatian sailors' testimony is also on the International Maritime Organisation's white list. We think it's also the result of this systematic concern for the seamen. The adoption of this law supplementing the 1996 Protocol Confirmation Act at the International Convention on minimum standards on ships extends the circle, the number of inspections, the number of conventions that the ministry will implement on Croatian ships and which will oversee on foreign ships in Croatian ports. I must also say that the adoption of this law practically completes the procedure and procedures for the unification of Croatian laws in the maritime area, and we have also circled, we have completed the process of harmonising the law in the maritime area with the legal gains of the European Union. Following the delivered, respected MPs and MPs, we ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50776	Okay, thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50777	Dear President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 43rd session held on 18 March 2010 discussed the Proposal for a Law supplementing the 1996 Protocol Act with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of the '76. the year, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 520 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 11 March 2010. The Committee is the Proposal for a Law supplementing the 1996 Protocol Confirmation Act with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of '76. discusses as a home working body, in accordance with the provisions set out in Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a proposing representative who said this law complemented the '96 Protocol Confirmation Act. the years with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of '76. the date of entry into force of this Agreement; '96 Protocol. in a statement proposing ratification of the protocol in question, it states that it accepts the Convention on Workers' Representatives of '71. the years listed in Part B of the supplemental supplement. Without discussion, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the proposed law in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50778	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50779	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the 1996 Act on the Completion of the 1996 Protocol Act with the 1976 Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships. The HDZ Club will support the addition of this law, i.e. the adoption of this law, for the reason that this law is in fact another international instrument of maritime law that allows for improving the working and living conditions of Croatian sailors on Croatian ships. It is clear that, in addition to this Protocol, the Republic of Croatia has confirmed all relevant international conventions which contribute to the safety of navigation, which contribute to the safety of the marine environment, but which is no less important to contribute and improve the working and living conditions of seamen on commercial ships owned by the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, by adopting almost all international conventions, all international maritime instruments have led to the fact that Croatia's maritime legislation is almost fully in line with the acquis of the European Union, and, on the other hand, it is clear that maritime activities as one of the activities fully globalised and all of those international conventions adopted by the International Maritime Organisation because Croatian ships, because Croatian sailors also sail to the ports of the European Union, and certainly our ships sail to all ports around the world. For this reason, it is clear that sailors must also be properly trained and that Croatian ships must meet all the demanding standards prescribed by the International Maritime Organisation. As the State Secretary has already said in its introduction, Croatia has made a major step towards improving the quality of the Croatian fleet on the one hand, and on the other hand has contributed to its activities through the Croatian maritime administration that Croatian sailors are also implementing all the most international standards established by the international maritime organisation. It was through the accession process of Croatia to the European Union that Croatia's maritime legislation, as I have already said, was almost fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. However, in the process of negotiations through chapter 14 of the transport policy in the maritime section of Croatia, a criterion was given for closing this chapter in the maritime section, in a way that Croatia's maritime administration, Croatian shipowners were obliged to improve their status on the grey list of the Paris Memorandum on which the list of Croatian commercial fleets was located by the beginning of 2009. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted an action plan binding on one side of the port captainship, so the Ministry of Sea, Transport, Infrastructure. On the other hand, it obliges Croatian shipmen whose ships carry out a clear Croatian flag, and in a certain way, in this social dialogue and with sailors, we oblige sailors who make crews on Croatian ships to fully meet the very high criteria prescribed primarily in the ports of the countries that are members of the Paris Memorandum and in which ports of inspections carry out surveillance of the safety of our ships, whether they are well maintained on the one hand and controlled, supervised, controlled, checked, able of crews on those ships. How well an action plan has been implemented is the fact that during 2009, no Croatian ship has been stopped in any port of the European Union, in any port of the Member States of the Paris Memorandum, and in this way we can say that for the first time, the Croatian commercial fleet has entered among the 15th, 20th, highest quality, best world fleets and that they have made a clear contribution to this by Croatian sailors. So, therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club certainly supports this protocol, which is brought to the Convention on Minimum Standards of Commercial Ships, because we are sure that its implementation will increase the number of inspections on Croatian ships that sail to Croatian ports and thus contribute further to improving the trade fleet of Croatian ships, but on the other hand, to further contribute to the working and living conditions of Croatian sailors sailing on ships under the Croatian flag. Otherwise, in 2010 the International Maritime Organisation declared the day of the seamen wanting to send a message to worry, to take care of all world seamen and at this moment there are about 1 million and 500 thousand of them, while on the other hand the Republic of Croatia has a message to both the Croatian State and through the implementation of this Convention, and we will, with the adoption of this international maritime law instrument, be further involved in the marking of that year and send a message to our sailors that both the Croatian State and through the implementation of this Convention, namely this Protocol, care and care for Croatian seamen in particular in the light of the fact that, in recent times, life and the work of the seamen is becoming more and more clear when we know that pirate attacks on merchant ships are increasingly common, so in this sense, the fate of the seamen, their life, their work is becoming increasingly uncertain. And clearly, we also contribute to the further safety of Croatian sailors by means of such international instruments. Not to mention that by amending the Maritime Code and the social reform for Croatian seamen, we have allowed all Croatian sailors, regardless of what ships they sail on, on which the seas sail, that their benefits with the basis of the payment of pension and social insurance are identical to those of the seamen who are sailing in national navigation, who have significantly less wages for their work, and then clearly by contributing to their social security and that we want to bring to them, as soon as possible, all the sailors who have not been in working and social status in the Republic of Croatia into working and social status in the Republic of Croatia and thus contribute to the social security of them and their families. So let me get this straight. The Croatian Democratic Community Club estimates that this is one of the last international instruments that Croatia as a maritime state should implement in national legislation. Some of them have already implemented and will clearly bring this, even contribute to better quality conditions in the work of Croatian sailors. And in order to make it easier for young people to commit to this honorable but certainly difficult maritime calling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50780	On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50781	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that MPs and representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club will also support the addition of this law. The addition of this law is set out in a new article establishing that the Republic of Croatia will, in accordance with Article 3(1). '96 Protocol. the year in which the amendment on ratification of the Protocol in question will apply to the Convention on Workers' Representatives referred to in Part B of the Supplement. The Convention is, as we have already heard, talks on improving the working and living conditions of our seamen on merchant ships, and this is also a further harmonisation of our legal acts with the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50782	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Attorney Gary Cappelly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50783	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the '96 Protocol Confirmation Act. the year with the 1976 Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships. Therefore, we have before us a law that has highlighted that the confirmation of this Protocol is completeed by the whole of the so-called multilateral agreements which the Republic of Croatia must also confirm in the process of harmonising Croatian maritime legislation with the legal acquis of the European Union. Since by adopting today's proposal and supplementing the law, I am only extending the list of conventions that we are adopting, and we are also expressing our willingness to be bound by an already signed international treaty, so I see no reason why this law would not be passed by an urgent procedure. The Republic of Croatia back in '96. the years thus confirmed the Convention on Minimum Standards, on Commercial Ships, International Labour Organisations, which therefore required the adoption of a law or other regulations governing safety standards in its territory, including standards of authorisation, working time and the numerous condition of the crew, appropriate social security measures, conditions of working relationship on board and living conditions on board, and, in connection with those, exercise real control over ships registered in its territory. When we talk about these things, of course these days there are a lot of words about security, about possible disasters, pollutions that can happen, so just one piece of information that we know that practically 90 percent of the world's trade in goods is taking place that is ultimately one of the most environmentally acceptable forms of transport. In order to protect them, international and many regulations have been adopted, including the Adriatic Sea, of particular importance in these conventions on the protection of the marine environment and coastal areas of the Mediterranean, which is, for example, the Barcelona Convention of 1976 and its protocol on the cooperation and prevention of ship pollution. We are talking about the reason why the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development has constantly encouraged cooperation with neighbouring Adriatic states, in order to achieve optimal solutions for the Adriatic so as to enable the development of maritime transport, but with a high degree of protection of the Adriatic. Well, one piece of information, we say, is that the Adriatic is passing a circus of about 5,000 tankers a year, and by statistics, at least every thousand tankers happen to have at least some minor accident or hawari. There are also five times more maritime accidents in the Adriatic than on the world seas, and according to these surveys, the surface area of the Adriatic oil pollution is three times larger, so it is working on our largest island of Cres. If we add this data to the Adriatic Sea, it's about two and a half thousand tons a year... water, we understand why Croatia wants and participates in confirming all conventions that protect the Adriatic Sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia also gives a clear sign of its commitment to the development of maritime protection based on the social and labour rights of the seamen, which are part of the Conventions, as well as ensuring decent living and working conditions on board ships. It is also very important to equalise ourselves with all the countries of the European Union and the world, because we have information that 80 percent of sailors are sailing on foreign ships somewhere. So by adopting these conventions and confirming them, we will achieve the modernisation of a whole series of provisions contained in instruments adopted in the beginning or middle of the last century, which therefore no longer satisfy the modern development of technologies and living conditions on board ships. Therefore, this certificate and this law, in any case, Croatia, enters the order of all countries to which these conventions on minimum standards have been implemented in our legislation, otherwise also through the provisions of the maritime code, as well as by a number of regulations and regulations which ensure safe navigation. The law therefore proposes to confirm the '96 protocol. the years following the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of '76. to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore personally support the adoption of today's proposal to supplement the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50784	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Niko Rebic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50785	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the 1996 Act of Confirmation of the Protocol, together with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of 1976, complements the '96 Protocol Confirmation Act. A year. Since the Republic of Croatia confirmed the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships in 1996, thereby making a commitment in advance to adopt laws, as well as other regulations governing safety standards for ships registered in its area, social security measures, working conditions and life on board, as well as the exercise of real jurisdiction and control over ships registered in our area, all in order to increase safety and protection of both our seas and our sailors. The Protocol extends the list of conventions set out in the Appendix to the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships, including the Convention on the Accommodation of crew members on Ships, the Convention on Working Time and the number of crew members, the Convention on the Personal Corrections of Seamen, the Convention on Labour Representatives, the Convention on Health Protection and Medical Care, and the Convention on the Repatriation of Seamen. On 2 October 2009, the Croatian Parliament adopted this Protocol Confirmation Act, and now the proposal only complements it in the part of the Supplemental Supplement, by adding a new article establishing that, in accordance with Article 3(1) of the 1996 Protocol, it will be attached to the amendment to the ratification of the Protocol, it will indicate that it accepts the Convention on Workers' Representatives of 1971. So it's a supplement to the already adopted '96 Confirmation Act. In addition to the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships, which does not change but complements the protocol in question to create the conditions for this law to come into force as soon as possible, where Croatia is obliged to review and monitor not only on our ships, but also on foreign ships sailing in our waters when it comes to workers' representatives. This proposal for a law is in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU, but it is also in line with all the international maritime conventions so far. Of course, all of this in order, so more security and our seas and improving the conditions of sailors on board ships. That is why this proposal should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50786	Thank you. Mr. Zivko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50787	Your Honor, since everything has already been said because of the importance of this law for our sailors, I will only strengthen my support for this proposal with a few thoughts. So, this proposal complements the '96 Confirmation Act. the years with the Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships of '76. The Republic of Croatia declares that it accepts the 1971 Convention on Workers' Representatives. This allows for the entry into force of those '96 protocols. The year that the Croatian Parliament already brought in October 2009. But this would make his provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, nothing is changed in the already adopted Protocol Act but only allows for its entry into force. And since it is the regulation of minimum standards on commercial ships, and for the safety of seamen, working relationship conditions and appropriate social security measures, it is good that as soon as possible this law comes into force and therefore I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50788	Thank you. And Mr. Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50789	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. It is certainly necessary to support this law, noting that indeed the Ministry of Maritime Affairs has done everything and yet in continuity. From acquiring the independence of the Republic of Croatia to protecting the seamen on our and on foreign ships. It should be mentioned in this context that, if I am not mistaken, the ministry was also the first to receive ISO 9001 certificate in the Republic of Croatia for a quality management system, even during the coalition government of Prime Minister Racan. Because without that certificate, it would not be possible to recognise the status of Croatian sailors and on foreign ships. How fortunate that your ministry also looked up to the Ministry of Science, which was the second ministry, that other ministries had seen each other, and had introduced similar practices. So this is one of the conventions that should certainly be supported with the hope that it will significantly improve the position of our sailors both in the country and in the world. However, this may also be an opportunity to recall some of the conventions that the Republic of Croatia has also accepted, which relate to the sea, to the protection of the sea, which we also seem to have accepted only this form for the sake of, and we have not, in particular, or have not done all we can to respect it. For example, the Republic of Croatia also adopted the Convention on the Protection of Sea mammals, so dolphins, whales who know how to wander into the Adriatic Sea. And it's all nice and wonderful if it didn't say, for example, that they had to be rescheduled and all the open, sewers that dump waste into the Adriatic Sea. Like these, they open up the rainwaters to which many irresponsible individuals in the coastal cities join. So in some places on the Adriatic coast we have a terrible picture of everything from waste, garbage and feces coming out on the waterfront where we intend to develop tourism and so on. I'm just saying that when adopting the Law on the ratification of different conventions, we should also get feedback here in the Assembly on how to implement it. How the Republic of Croatia actually implements it and then implements it in practice. So it's not just a situation for us to accept it and then do little or almost nothing about implementation after accepting it. It is especially important for situations like this when protecting the rights of our seamen on both foreign and domestic ships. And I basically just used this one very, very positive situation to point out some other problems. And especially in the context of the protection of the Adriatic Sea as one of our most valuable resources the Republic of Croatia has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50790	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50791	My colleague Franić, I generally agree with your debate but what I think is not true, and it is not true that the Republic of Croatia did not respect anything in terms of the protection of mammals and the conservation of the Adriatic Sea, so let's say it is a long-term process, but here is the whole sewer system from Omis to Trogir, so with Split, it is a long-term process. To invest much is proof of the return of the Mediterranean bear to the Adriatic Sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50792	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide later. We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the 1996 Protocol Act with the 1976 Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 520. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the '96 Protocol. the years with the Convention and minimum standards, commercial ships from 1976. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by most votes, 107 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50795	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is the proposal to declare the Day of Remembrance for the prisoners of enemy camps during the Homeland War, the incentive to this proposal came from the Croatian Society of Campers of Serbian concentration camps, and I will remind only in the shortest lines that the reasons exist that August 14th is indeed declared the day of remembrance. During the 60 Serb concentration camps during the war period, a total of 7666 Croatian defenders and civilians, who were imprisoned in camps for a long time, for at least 3 or more days, and who have confirmed the status of prisoners under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The total number of persons in one form of enemy captivity is estimated at several tens of thousands. Of the 7666 of them, 219 were younger than 19 years and 424 older than 60. Among the prisoners were 932 women, the largest number of them held captive between one month and a year. According to data that are not complete, about 300 people in captivity are estimated to have lost their lives, and these data are not complete because one part of them is still missing today. The largest number of violently abducted ended up in camps and prisons in Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in formerly occupied areas of Croatia. On August 14th, the day the largest group of prisoners from the Serbian camps came out of the Serbian camps, 662 of them to most Croatian defenders, it is a famous exchange in Nemetivno on the principle of all. And next to all the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament on 14 August to declare "On the Day of Remembrance of Hostile Camps During the Homeland War" in order to give a worthy recognition of the victims and victims of all prisoners of the camp during the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50796	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's representatives want to take the floor? Yes, Mr. Ante Kotromanović, chairman of the War Veterans Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50797	Mr. President-in-Office, thank you very much, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 16th session held on 18 March 2010 discussed the proposal to declare the Day of Remembrance of Host Camps in the Homeland War, which was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 11 March 2010. The Committee considered the proposal for a decision as a parent body in accordance with the provisions of Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the discussion, the Committee members supported the proposal for a decision and stressed that this is a commendable initiative. The concern is expressed because we still do not have exact and accurate data on the number and structure of the prisoners. The need for sanctioning responsible persons has been highlighted, and it has been proposed that the Committee draws a conclusion that would request information and information from the competent authorities of the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Family, the defenders and the intergenerational solidarity, on the actions carried out on the processing and sanctioning of responsible persons and on the final establishment of records on the number and structure of the detained persons. She is concerned that other groups of defenders and victims, the non-permanent and deadly victims, would not report with their initiatives, leading us to another extreme. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision to declare the Day of Remembrance of the prisoners of enemy camps during the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50798	Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50799	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian society of Serbian concentration camps campers has been thinking for a long time that all campers have a day to remember not to forget. That day would be a working day, and the campers would mark it by laying the crowns and burning the candles on the mass graves of their loved ones and their comrades. On August 14th, it would be the day of all Croatian campers who accepted the Government of the Republic of Croatia with pleasure and placed the subject in the parliamentary procedure. On that day, 1992, the largest group of campers came out, namely 780 of us from Serbian concentration camps. And I left Srijem Mitrovica camp that day after a full nine months of horror and torture, that day is our second birthday. Still, we're all proud to be campers and we've had a little bit more luck than our friends, those who have succumbed to intense beatings and beatings. We are, however, a generation who was lucky to be the ones who created an independent, democratic and independent Republic of Croatia. Many have failed for centuries. Fortunately, we had a true leader who brought all Croatians together under a single flag of Croatian in the person of Dr Franjo Tudjman. For eight centuries, generations of Croats sought to have their own state. And we are the ones who created it a generation of Croatian defenders from 1991. All those who pawned their lives, body parts for our beautiful. 7 thousand 666 is the total number of persons who have reached the status of prisoners of enemy camps. They're the ones who spent three or more days in those camps. In the structure of this figure is 219 people under 18. About 30,000 people went through enemy camps, 932 women were captured, and 449 were over 60 years old. About 300 people died, or killed, and over 3,000 died from the consequences of captivity. In 60 camps, captured Croats were taken to the premises of the former Yugoslavia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina in occupied Croatian areas. We must not forget that during the war in Vukovar, 360 defenders and a thousand 500 civilians were killed to kill helpless defenders and civilians after the fall of Vukovar. So in the end, 921 defenders and 3,000 500 civilians were killed and killed. No one is responsible for that crime after the fall of Vukovar. In the camp, people were systematically tortured and killed for ethnic cleansing. That's when we realized that we're just a number that can and doesn't have to survive. Those responsible for the management and holding of Serbian concentration camps are a mixture of JNA, officers, soldiers, militias, SUP, militias of the SAO province, units of Serbian territorial defence and various paramilitary units. The prisoners were defenders, children, women and old men. In a situation of disenfranchisement and misdemeanor each camper initially senses a mixture of existential fear and anxiety before the upcoming. Logoras' psychic life after spending some time in the camp becomes completely different from the one before the camp. The surviving campers, after the camp, carry all that psychological drama with them. All their sufferings as well as the sufferings of those with whom they shared them become a component of their lives. That's why after the camp, they don't experience their social world the same way psychologically. It is not the most important fact that the perpetrators of the crime are the victims of the Croats and that the crime has indeed happened, that the criminals most of the victims are still alive and justice is not satisfied. All who have passed through Serbian concentration camps are a lot of destroyed health and most of them do not go to the doctor at all because they do not feel any major problems of all the torturers that have passed. Their health has been destroyed so much that they simply reconciled to fate and left slowly one by one. In Vukovar, every house, every building, every apartment has its own tragic story and tragic ending. We must mention those who did not welcome freedom and independent Croatia, all mothers and parents and families killed and taken to this day, there is no sign of them. It is our desire that all of us find their loved ones and that before death they may come to their child's grave, lay flowers and light a candle. So far, 3,000 people have been exhumed and about a thousand missing persons are still being led. And 400 missing persons are from the Vukovar area. For this reason, let us support the day of remembrance of the prisoners of enemy camps during the Homeland War. It's the least we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50800	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50801	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Secretary, fellow MPs. You heard a fellow Mlinarić talking about his own experiences he had experienced through one or more concentration camps where he was. So I absolutely support this initiative and incentives from the Association of Campers. And it is a pity that we have not marked one way before so that we have a day of memory of all the captive members of any civilian, whether members of the Croatian Army, or members of the MUP who have been through this force of concentration camps. And you saw there if you read the board's conclusions somewhere around 60 concentration camps were in the area of several states. That about 30 thousand people went through those camps. That's terrible data, very painful data. And when we see all this together that over 200 people were under the age of 10, 932 women went through the camps. I'm sorry there's so little to know about it, there's little to talk about. We don't know what condition these women are in in the state of these children in psychophysical, health care. Are we taking care of them enough, because they're really heavy and incredible traumas that these people have been through. And we have this data that about 300 people were killed in those camps, and about 3,000 died from the consequences of captivity. Question, of course, all those people who have passed all these camps in what state are they in today? The question of which diseases do they die, what attacks them? We have one piece of information that I've dug up somewhere, that in Sarajevo, which has been completely surrounded by people who have defended Sarajevo that is an incredibly high number of tumors, attacks tumors on these people who have been in the environment, because man is not an animal, of course can't incessantly in these animal conditions and have this instinct and a sense of fighting for survival as animals do in nature. So I think we have to give a lot of attention here, too, to this, to the health care of the defenders, to the health care of all those who went through various camps, who went through various traumas. And that's why I'm going to stand up and we're going to propose here in the Parliament to discuss a resolution on the health care of the defense attorneys. And I've done it before to suggest that it would be good and smart to have a big rehabilitation center. I mentioned Duilova as an example for which it is a great position, which is owned by the state, and can carry four ministries that can provide certain means to have a rehabilitation centre for defenders and all other people in the territory of the Republic of Croatia where rehabilitation would be done classically. Because we don't have enough room in these centers right now. Where they would do preventive checks for those people who were defenders of all types, so to speak, where they would record in depth what state they were in and what health is now like for people who were in the Homeland War. I have information that last year 364 people died in Zagreb from 42 to 47 years and they were defenders without us knowing what they died of. And that's serious data. I think it would be a good idea for all of us to make a good meeting together and think about it and that in that space or any other space, it doesn't matter, we do something called a rehabilitation centre where we would allow this better health care counsel who is absolutely in a very difficult and questionable state. We had a committee because we really unanimously supported it and there was nothing to add to what the secretary of state said and unprincipledly obliged the State's Attorney's Office to report on the number of criminal charges filed against the perpetrators of the crimes against the prisoners of Serb conflict camps and their paramilitary troops in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. We also obliged the Ministry of Justice to report to the Committee on the number and structure of the judicial verdicts of the convicted and liberating against the perpetrators of the crimes against the prisoners of Serb concentration camps. We have also obliged the Ministry of Defence, family and intergenerational solidarity to report to the Committee on the possibility, manner and time of forming accurate records and that is what we now find a problem in the total number and structure of prisoners who have been in some form of hostile captivity. That's very important to us. I hope that all three ministries will provide some information in a very short time, a report to the board that we may further have steps that we have planned to take on this topic. Of course, the SDP club will support a day of memory of the prisoners of enemy camps and say that I said I have nothing special to add. And that's why I'm only going to say one more word in the end, so it's very important that we talk about it in the defense register. These people who have been through all this together and some have won the status of defenders, some may not but they are absolutely people who deserve to have their hat off for what they've done and for what they've been through. And that's why it's good to make this some kind of selection, to make a systematization by structural units, to see who exactly, where who was who and what he was doing, and to finally be satisfied. And that these people who have been in the Homeland War, that people who have been through all these things can have a peaceful life in peace and devote themselves to families and to things that are important and important to them alone. I'll finish my debate and, of course, say we'll support it. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50802	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50803	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Proposer's representative, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is only one formal proposal in front of us that, as far as this home is concerned, should complete one task so that we can both be a country and a people, and as representatives in the Croatian Parliament at least symbolically repay everyone who has passed the hell of the camp and thus assign the homeland. However, I would be unhappy personally if that was the only thing left to do because it would be the form that we are actually making in terms of some technical decisions. There's a curse on our premises, in the places where we've lived, in the state communities for at least 70, 80 years where every conflict has carried with it an incredible crime, the crime of collecting and detaining people who have not only taken away the right to be persons who have not only taken away freedom but rarely everything they have including life. I come from a national minority who, due to crimes committed during World War II, paid a collective price, the cost of collective guilt, among other things, by establishing more than 70 collective concentration camps for members of the German national minority in the area of the former Yugoslavia. It's been quiet for a long time, and that's what was going on because it was standard, it was the task of history, because it was known that by crossing the fate of some peoples or ethnic groups, it was actually the worst and most difficult blow to their existence. Coming from a national minority whose more than a hundred thousand members, members of the past hell of concentration camps from 1944 to 1948 with full rights, I would like to be appalled by this sick habit in the Balkans that every conflict is warranted by this worst crime, this inhuman procedure against a prisoner of war, against a civilian, according to a child, according to who is on the enemy side. And I'm sorry no one's left clean. I'm sorry we didn't stay clean on that, either. However, it should be said that this is an evil established by 60 different gathering concentration camps for mostly non-Serbs but also by many Serbs who did not want to agree to Milosevic's concept of great Serbia at all costs, at the cost of war and killing all those who do not think so is a crime that must never be forgotten. I remember like yesterday when my friends were happy that the others were coming back from Stajic's. It was a camp of infamous territories on the territory of the Vojvodina that established Serb military and paramilitary authorities under the patronage of politics to imprison, humiliate and kill if they needed all those they had captured as animals and taken into captivity. Head down, hands behind your back. It was a monstrosity sentence listened to by prisoners every day, living in inhumane conditions for former farms without doors and windows on bare concrete crushed like cattle. Taken to liquidations, humiliated in the worst possible ways, foretold, hanged, beaten. Vukovar unfortunately recruited the most prisoners of these camps in Vojvodina. It is a great wound both to Vukovar and to the entire eastern Slavonia and to the entire Podunavlja from which men like cattle were taken without any rights, many without any established or unfounded guilt and taken into the unknown of which many have not even returned. That's what Mania was like. That's what Clay was like. That's what Knin was like. How many, beaten to death in the exchanges of the house, lost their minds in the flower of youth, took their own lives, spent forever, killed from the inside, received a vassal wound both on the soul and on the body. Some of them couldn't stand it. They took their own lives. Some of them, because of post-traumatic syndrome, unfortunately, did not want to make life worse for themselves and for their families and for those who loved them and surrounded them, all because they had gone to hell because they had passed torture and the worst inhuman treatments. It was a war that unfortunately did not respect international law, an international war law in which a prisoner was treated not as a man but as someone to be destroyed. Those who survived say they are satisfied with the scope of the rights they have acquired, which they have been granted. They are not happy that politics still refuses to allow them to put the mention of the signs where they were killed. It's not easy for them either. The worst is for those who lost theirs right in those camps. But, unfortunately, it wasn't just there. We must remember today both the Elder and Laura, our wounds, our shame. Gok Vulovic, and all Gok Vulovic, who only because some of them were jealous of them, insolent, insolent, insolent, lost their lives at the hands of our boys. But there's no collective guilt, that's what the Germans learned very well, that's what the Croats learned and learned very well. There's no collective guilt with Serbs or anyone else. Every criminal has a name and a last name, and while he's alive, as long as he's well-known, he needs to be prosecuted and he doesn't need to stop. And the reconciliation process cannot and must not include those responsible for death and war crimes, it was about these or those victims. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, of course, we will support this proposal, because we want the sacrifice of all those who have passed through the camps to be memorialized, but here we say it is not good to talk about enemy camps because there are no friendly camps. They're prisoners of concentration camps. As we commemorate every victim, anyone who, in the name of the Croatian homeland, had to go through torture and Mitrovica and Stajica, Manjače, Gline, Iron, Knina, we must put our hands on the heart and say our condolences to all others who passed through the camps led by members of our army, led by members of the Croatian Council of Defense and for whom we were ashamed of ourselves to heaven. God, they've never been there. But we must be aware that our priority must go to all who are soulless, inhumanely humiliated, arrested, gathered, imprisoned, tortured, murdered, and some of them are fortunately survived and returned home. No friendly camps, none like that. All enemies to humanity, to man, to his dignity. Any imprisonment that has not been followed by a court procedure in which guilt will be proved is a imprisonment against man's freedom, against his dignity, and therefore we do not make a difference. Let's remember the ones closest to us, the ones we know best, but let's not forget the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50804	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50805	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Well, here's the theme, which is the proposal for a decision to declare the day of memory of the prisoners of enemy camps during the Homeland War, obviously in the speaker and before me is really one deep emotion, one compassion for people who have passed the horrors of camps where not only lives have been taken away. In that hell, first of all, there was an attack, that is, destroying both human dignity and human pride. Since I am quite a year old, and given this topic and the title that stands here, and the explanation on the last page of this proposal, I must remember the many prisoners I have known, I was on the exchange of prisoners in Dragalić near Slavonski Brod, near Nova Gradiška, pardon. Then, with my eyes, I saw prisoners or prisoners who were transported to Manjač by bus from Croatia. I saw their faces. I also remember the pictures from Nemetin during the exchange that is being discussed here, the biggest exchange for everyone that was made in Nemetin near Osijek on 14 August '92. But I remember then and the warm words of welcome and encouragement above all our General Branimir Glavas who was there at that time. And now when we speak as emotionally as our colleagues Beus about all the deaths of the people who have passed these camps and when we see the first sentence in the context of this proposal, which reads "Croatian society of Serb concentration camps campers has launched an initiative to declare 14 August on the day of all the camps of the Republic of Croatia concentration camps in memory of the release of the largest number of Croatian defenders and civilians from captivity." I wonder if this first line of reasoning is in correlation, in line with the very name of the proposal, so days of memories of the prisoners of enemy camps, although in the explanation it is exclusively stressed, so Serbian camps. Isn't this a formulation of enemy camps consistent with the formulations in our history textbooks in which I have often quoted it here when it comes to textbooks very often the reasons and causes of the defensive and liberating Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia are clouded. And now I'm asking myself and you whether these 7666 people who passed the camps are reading yesterday's press in which Croatia is still withdrawing the genocide suit. What do they think of that headline in yesterday's daily press? People who passed the camps, and I heard what was going on there, and many told me that they were treated at the Ship's Hospital without their diagnosis, as Kotromanovic said. So, people who are sick and diagnosed, even the most modern medicine can't find them. I heard confessions from the campers and from the Omars who were there. Where the priest Simic of Ljubija was killed, which was sprinkled with motor oil, burned by motor oil, and then exposed to the heat of the sun, not giving them a drop of water, so that in a few hours to say, they would be buried in the courtyard of the camp. Indeed, the methods applied there are, I would say, more inventive than those of Turkish methods and of the zoom that reigned in the Turkish Empire. Human cruelty and evil really worked so hard that it's amazing. The number of suicides of defenders and those imprisoned in Serbian concentration camps is approaching the number 1600s. So 1600 people took their own lives. What are they sick of? What caused the disturbance to tell my consciousness? So clearly, the stress or stressful situation has also caused what has been done, and what many have never told anyone, or even their immediate family, that has caused both suicides and all that is happening today in society with those people who have indeed been taken away from the most fundamental human dignity and pride. As a result, it's clear that the HDSSB club doesn't mind. In fact, to mark himself as therefore the Day of Remembrance of the prisoners of the camp of the Homeland War. But this formulation is indeed hostilely general and not sufficiently defined, and clearly in the explanation, so what remains and will never mostly be read as a proposal but only as a title is clearly said to suggest this day of memories is proposed by people who have passed Serbian concentration camps. Of course, drinking to all innocent people who have experienced the same needs to exist. That no one denies, and it is true that every crime has a name and a last name, but the number mentioned here by 7 thousand 666 people commits us, obliges us to give a special mark to them, precisely in the form of this day memories of prisoners of the camp during the Homeland War, only the question is whether it should be called a real name or otherwise. I think this name is too general and insufficient to detect and not sufficiently define where these people have been and what they've been through. Today, the media electronically and others still penetrate and bring us scary pictures from... ...from an Iraqi prison, or American prison in Baghdad, painting... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the rest of the camps are very few, but confessions, confessions of the people who wanted and we got the strength to talk about it are scarier than what the camera recorded there in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I'm saying I'm really saying that these people, here whose number is listed here, are looking right at yesterday's headlines of yesterday's press releases in which Croatia is saying here... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that a confession that it wasn't? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are we doing? Because it's contradictory. Today we all adopt a unanimous decision here to declare the Day of Remembrance of Prisoners, and yesterday Croatia withdraws the genocide suit. Thank you very much. It's up to you gentlemen to protest here. I'm for marking the Day of Remembrance of Prisoners.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50806	Thank you very much. We have two applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Kotromanović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50807	I'm a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50808	There's no replica on the clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50809	Okay, I mean that, but I can fix this incorrect quote about this unfortunate lawsuit. The government and the president of the state have not said that they will withdraw the lawsuit, it is a speculation of newspapers, and by the way, I will tell my colleague Grubisic who is a doctor and it is good that we have more doctors in the Parliament who will understand what I'm talking about, the past is behind us. Let's turn to the future, see how to help these people, how to help them have as much quality life as possible, the better life, how to allow them to have better and faster health care, not to wait for a medical examination of 6.7 months as in a camp, that's important and important to me in all of this, and I hope that we will discuss it in the Assembly, that, by modeling Israel, America and other countries, we will create a rehabilitation centre for defenders where we will provide them with quality, fast, accessible health care and it will be the best help for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50810	Thank you very much. It was a little bit, a little correction and a little replica. Boro, we must stick to the Rules of Procedure, but we also have the application of the correction of the alleged colleague Vidovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50811	Well, it's incorrect to bring into a direct relationship and in fact only the eye is in a relationship. One is a fact of oblivion or oblivion, in this case a request to determine the day of memory of the victims with one political initiative which, here we have heard is far from being realised, therefore withdrawing, the possible withdrawal of the genocide suit. They're completely different things. The memory is not, or the withdrawal of that lawsuit would in no way mean automatically, as a colleague implies in his quote, oblivion or in any way forgiveness from the prosecution of those who committed these crimes, but there is one temporal dimension, there is a future because we cannot and can not be hostages of the past, no matter how terrible or how good it is. The past is one dimension, the future, and the creation of a condition that never happens to anyone and nowhere else is something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50812	Thank you very much. I believe that what's open now is that it's one topic that we're going to specifically discuss, because it has to be and... Certainly through the different contexts of the initiative, and I suggest that we return to what is on the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the application for an individual hearing was filed by a respected counterpart, Petar Mlinaric. Here's your colleague, Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm just going to look back a little bit on things that the campers went through that why they were getting better later, why they were going one by one, the day we were trapped, we saw, I was surprised, they didn't look at the woman or the kids, they made us straight down the street, there they were waiting for a lot of famous people in military uniforms, they had hats tied five-pointed, they were wearing vests, and I just stopped when the military uniforms were dressed, I didn't think they were people who were there... worked with us, who played football with us, who hung out with us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was even harder if they knew you, if you were with them it was still good, my neighbor was 20 years old, one of his peers took him by the back like that and took him right into a group that doesn't even know about him today. I was also singled out by one I knew well, but fortunately, one of the thousands I managed to get back when he didn't, I simply took advantage of his attention, and I got back on the bus, and the one who had just singled me out, and today some counselors boasted that his friend, was sentenced to five years, but escaped to Banja Luka, there were more people, but we can't say that all the Serbs, there were decent people, there were people with us who were defending this country, today they're defenders of people, they're taking pensions, and there were a lot of Serbs who shared evil with us, and well, so the criminal is a criminal and we're not saying that all the Serbs are criminals, don't give God. So they were with us one part that felt like they were defending their country. We came and came out of the Commerca building that was already a gorilla. Some started suffocating, there were 100 wounded. In the field we went out, there were already teams of JNA, Novosad TV, Belgrade TV, buses and buses with us slowly on the buses. The first one was separation. That night from Commerco disappeared about 80 people, and there were 600 of them at Commerco. They were mahogany wounded, and only 28 of them were found here at the Ovcar hunting farm behind Borov Sela while we were still searching for others. We've come, we've been passing the Tropical Road. Our friends who worked with us yesterday, scratched on the bus, shouted, "Let us judge them." We came to Serbian Miletic in the evening. Then they were doing it, it was beating that we couldn't recognize each other. Some of them, if anyone went left and right, he was cut. And that's where they tied us to Sremska Mitrovica. The first thing that was a colleague was already simply a loss of consciousness, he spoke incoherently and they put him on the spot until the door opened had been killed and, of course, we had already seen that it was not going to be good. They took us to a playground in Mitrovica, handballed, and they put out loudspeakers where the shooting was heard, and they said, "Here comes your turn." I mean, it was psychologically simple harassment, and then all nine months away, there was torture. Then they drove us from Mitrovica to Nis, where they tied us with two-by-two wires where we had all our hands. And we came to Alexinac where, by chance, 27 years ago, we served an army, where I was captain of the football team. We were champions, they carried me on the hands of elders and soldiers, and then after 27 years I came to the same dorm room where they beat us and beat us all day. And when we went to Nis then those electric pens made us go to the bus. When we first came to Nis, a cop's asparagus was big with pens and everyone had to go through that asparagus. Here, let me not tell you what was inside when we came into the building. Every day, the team goes from room to room, pulls out 5.6. If I didn't talk when it was a confession, the international recognition of Croatia had been beating us all night, it wasn't, we had to lie down and bark on the ceiling and everything was. I mean, they really came to us, and that mattress we were eating, and those bags we had, they threw it all away. They were angry, we saw something good going on, but we didn't know, we just heard it later. And I say, in the very room one boy of the beating died, the other one went for questioning didn't come back. Third again, all they said was that his heart was gone and so on. Those tests were with the pendrels, it was very difficult. We had to be in solitary socks. We couldn't be in shoes. There was big snow, the window was open and so on. I mean, I'm saying that everything that's been through, but the hardest part is that we left one large part of our colleagues who are here are not, who have fallen short of beatings. I'm saying, all this stuff that's been there can't be forgotten. There's no one to take revenge on. There's a law. And I say it never happens again, that our children and all the other generations live in peace, that they live in love, that we don't hate each other. And I say, we have what we carry inside us, what we are, and we have faults of some. When we got out of camp, then we sat on a tram here, we kept thinking something, 3.4 stations passed, and then we just remembered that we were supposed to go out. We haven't come to our senses in six months. They put something in our food, we weren't simply able to rule a lot with ourselves. After six months, we just came to our senses. And here, that's my contribution and I want you to keep this day just confirm it for us. It's our day where we're in our minds and it's so much easier for us to sometimes apologize to each other, then it's easier for us not to wear all the scars we've gotten there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50814	Thank you, fellow Mlinaric. A colleague named Davor Huška signed up for the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, I will rely on this debate by my fellow Mlinaric, who has survived this Golgoto concentration camp. I also come from the city and from the battlefield of western Slavonia, from the area of the town of Pakrac where there was a large Serbian concentration camp known as the "Vučje" camp. Unfortunately, dozens and hundreds of prisoners have passed in that camp. Many among them have been killed, but also unfortunately for 21 people are still wanted. Among these 21 persons, Dr. Ivan Šretara, who was in the "Vucje" camp, who was tortured in the "Vucje" camp, allegedly killed and was declared dead afterwards, after being brought out of the "Vuče" camp. And his remains and the remains of 20 other prisoners of the Wolf camp are still being searched. We don't have any information where they are, we don't have a chance to light a candle, bring flowers to them on different occasions when we remember our dead and dead. So I ask the ministry, and I know that it works full-time to search for missing persons, to pay particular attention to the people who have disappeared from captivity from various Serb concentration camps. To get information as soon as possible where their remains are to bury them with dignity. I would especially like to point out here another conclusion of the War Veterans Committee, and I ask, indeed, the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Justice to inform us, both the board and the present parliamentary representatives of the number of criminal charges filed against the perpetrators of the crimes against the prisoners of Serb concentration camps. It also reports on the number and structure of the rightful verdicts brought against the perpetrators of the crimes against prisoners of Serb concentration camps. Unfortunately, we know that a large number of people who are guilty, who have never responded in camps, and the last chance is for them to see the face of justice and the face of justice and to answer for what they did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50816	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Mlinaric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just dropped something that all these crimes that were, it can't be solved by Savo Strbac, it needs to be solved by our judiciary, we have laws and everything, but we don't have to wait 20 years, because many parents won't wait, they won't know their children's fate, they don't know where they are, and many people are walking around today defiantly in our Croatia and say here we have done ours. Well, here, I ask that something be done to satisfy justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50818	Thank you. Col. Ivan Božović, next in line for the debate, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50819	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a decision to declare the day of remembrance of prisoners of enemy camps during the Homeland War. Since there have already been many exhibitions, I have been particularly shaken by the exposure of Mr Mlinarić, who unfortunately experienced these tortures as many others through enemy camps. I personally had the opportunity to attend an exchange and exactly what my colleague Mlinarić said were told by these people who were exchanged on that occasion, but still happy to see freedom and to come to the free part of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for this Decision gives recognition to the sufferings, casualties, and victims of all prisoners during the Homeland War, as said through 60 Serb concentration camps in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and in the temporarily occupied areas of the Republic of Croatia, it is assumed that some 30,000 prisoners, some 300 were killed in camps, and some 3,000 died from the consequences of imprisonment. We know 7666 people achieved the status of prisoners of enemy camps, spent in camps for 3 or more days, of which number 219 was under 18 years, 449 older persons of 60 years and 932 were women. Since I come from a region that also died in the Homeland War, it is the former municipality of Slunj, which today consists of the town of Slunj, the municipality of Cetingrad and Rakovica, 12 thousand 91 inhabitants of the non-Serb population were exiled, and we also gave a certain sacrifice in the creation of the Republic of Croatia, so I will only mention some figures. 258 dead defenders and civilians we had, 193 wounded defenders and civilians we had, 264 captured and imprisoned defenders and civilians, that's more than 2% of the total population and unfortunately 15 defenders and civilians are still missing. Of course, we will all agree that collective responsibilities are not available, but since most of those who committed crimes are not processed, and we have contributed to the fact that all those who committed crimes are recorded and recorded, and here is the book called "A crime without Penalty", which will see the light of the day during which 2 to 3 months will be recorded and justified all those documents that we collected about the events during the Homeland War in the area of the former Municipality of Slunj. So on August 14, 1992, the largest group of prisoners from the Serbian concentration camps emerged from the Serbian concentration camps, 662, most of Croatian defenders. Based on the exchange of all agreed in Budapest between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the then Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the exchange was made in Nemetin. All other exchanges have been negotiated and conducted in various places in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In memory of this great exchange and the deaths of prisoners in Serbian concentration camps, the Croatian Society of Campers of Serbian concentration camps marks the day as the day of all the camps of the Serbian concentration camps in the Republic of Croatia. The least we can do for those who have passed through enemy camps is declare on August 14th the day of memory of prisoners of enemy camps during the Homeland War and of course we support the adoption of this Decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50820	Thanks, buddy. A distinguished colleague colleague, Daniel Srb, also applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I want to say that I support the Decision on the Day of Remembrance of Host Camps, but I believe that the name should also be different, expressing above all the pitetism towards the victims, these camps, I believe that it should be called the Day of Remembrance of Victims, and also prisoners are victims, but also should have the same courage to say that it was Serbian concentration camps and, in line with the society of campers who are exactly that name and new and who today marks the Day of all the Serb concentration camps in the Republic of Croatia. So, with the support of this initiative, it should also be said today how all these victims of Serbian concentration camps can feel today when they have the opportunity to see and discuss what, for example, was led here in the Croatian Parliament yesterday about those economic operators representing the future of the Croatian State, in which they are lost and how in such conditions those who have passed through Serbian concentration camps have felt just because they were often other nationalities. But today we live in a time when, unfortunately, the money from the state budget is shared according to national membership, so we have cases that municipalities, for example, Borovo village, Trpinja, Markusica, Negoslavci or in southern Croatia, for example, civilians, Kistanje, Diocese etc., are particularly financed from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and that large money from the State budget is referred to municipalities in which the majority of the population is of the national minority, but in which the people who have been imprisoned do not receive money from the state budget. It's something that's both political and civilizationally unacceptable and what needs to be spoken of here openly. No wonder there are also many cases of extreme dissatisfaction, suicide, PTSD among the population who are victims of concentration camps. In all respect for all these victims, I would like to give this initiative support, as I believe it should be in Croatia one day, in which we will remember the victims of Serbian concentration camps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50822	Thank you very much, colleague. A respected colleague, Josip Djakic, applied for the debate next. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50823	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We have before us the initiative of the Croatian Society of Campers of Serbian concentration camps with a proposal for a decision on the day of the declaration of the day of the detention of non-friendly camps during the Homeland War. The initiative was translated into this proposal for a decision to mark and remember on 14 August all the horrors experienced by Croatian defenders and civilians through 60 Serb concentration camps in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and the occupied territory of the Republic of Croatia. About 30,000 Croatian citizens, most Croatian defenders, and then civilians, went through those camps, and 7 thousand 666 had three or more days under the law and reached the legal status of Croatian prisoners of enemy camps. The horrors they have spent and experienced from psychic to physical harassment, beatings, trampling and killings are certainly such that no man would wish for anyone. 300 of them ended up beating and beating in camps. And that clearly speaks of the goal and purpose that must have been genocide. The aim and purpose of those who commanded both in Mitrovica and Nis, and in Aleksinec, and in Stajic, and in Manjaca and in Morinj was certainly to wipe out the Croatian regiment, wipe out Croatian defenders. And that's why this proposal of the government's decision on the Day of Remembrance should certainly be and should be remembered and not be forgotten. Because whoever forgets history is forced to repeat. Repeating such horrors to the Croatian people is not necessary. The experience of such horrors is certainly not needed by any Croatian citizen or any other. All these things they've been through the times they've spent, tens of thousands of these people who've had their dignity, who've been humiliated and humiliated, beaten and trampled must remember. But we also need to know that the three thousand who came out... that day died of consequences. And it's even harder when we live with it today, to die because they were beaten, because they were crushed, because their dignity was taken away, because they had no legal rights. And we are wondering today how many of them are responsible, and today they are free to walk in Croatia. Although our laws say that they are not freed from the possibility of criminal persecution from the crimes committed, only because of participation in the enemy army and participation in the occupation, not because of the acts they have committed. And therefore, as a committee, we have asked and asked, and we will surely insist that all those who have committed their deeds, who have participated in them, who have commanded to be brought to justice, be punished righteously and be found guilty. 219 under 18 years of age spent in these camps, 444 older than 60, 932 women. All that says is that in all these and in Mitrovica, and in Nis, and in Aleksinc, and Stajic, and Manjachi, and Morinj, and in Butch, a genocide was certainly committed. Certainly an unprecedented genocide. All these numbers speak. And the definition of genocide is the following, as part of an act designed to destroy fully or partially, national, ethnic, racial or regional group, orders that members of the group are killed or seriously injured or severely disrupted by physical or mental health. The definition of genocide is clearly recorded in all these people who have lived through these camps and cannot be a settlement with anyone. Therefore, this day of memory of the prisoners of the enemy camps on August 14th when the largest group was exchanged in the "All for All" action will certainly be an additional incentive that genocide must be condemned and must be declared as such, because the same act as Bosnia and Herzegovina as Croatia are equal sides of the medals when it comes to Serb crimes committed in both countries. And so they are defined through the definition of genocide and so will be believed implemented. And criminals who enjoy freedom in the Republic of Croatia today, and I believe that the State's Attorney's Office and our law enforcement authorities know about them, we just need to encourage them to do their best to be brought to justice as soon as possible. I don't know if Veliko Djakula ordered Butch, but I know there are many casualties in Butch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50824	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just been joined at the gallery by members of the delegation of the Parliament of the Republic of Latvia who are staying for an official visit to the Parliament. I am pleased to welcome, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the delegation led by the President of the Parliament of the Republic of Latvia, his Excellency Mr Gundars Daudze. ... We have another debate on this agenda point, so please the clubs prepare to vote. [[Applause.]] Here's another debate, Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50825	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I had such a life that I was lucky or unhappy to be one of these seven thousand 666 imprisoned defenders. I was lucky or unhappy to be one of the 49 prisoners of the Serbian camp in Knin, which took place on the same date on August 14th, but one year earlier in Tepluh, so on August 14, 1991. I listened to this debate today, and in my mind I actually came back in some way at that time, at that time, at the time of the death of people who were not imprisoned because they committed some personal crime, so here they are now suffering because of it but simply being imprisoned for defending the attacked homeland. And I have to say that in some way here today I feel offended when people who haven't experienced that suffering, that torture, that breaking of limbs, harassing, accumulating electricity, and I don't know what we've been through today are using this good initiative to actually talk about daily politics, to maybe try to suggest that maybe we should even avenge ourselves, or that we shouldn't go over some things. What I can say is that I am proud that most of our campers returned later to the troops of the Croatian military and police and that none of us took revenge but we did our job as the profession required of us. We who returned on August 14th 91 from the Knin concentration camp to this day marked that day as our second birthday, so on August 14th we gathered and we spoke this is our second birthday and in fact it's kind of our semi-private party, we were celebrating our birthday. And I think it is precisely a well-elected date on August 14th to be the National Day of Remembrance of Enemies Camps exactly so that it would not be semi-private entertainment and marking but simply become something the Croatian state recognized and what they would appreciate. I also have to agree with my predecessors and say I'm sorry about one thing. I am personally sorry that Captain Dragan, who was the commander of that camp where people were tortured, in which some even died, is simply not available to the Croatian judiciary because I believe that all of us 49 who were in that camp until that moment have something to say to him, and as far as I've heard, we all still thank God alive, and we would have to bear witness because, as the initiative itself says, this is a day of remembrance, this is not a day of calling revenge. This is in line with the words of well-known politician Martin Luther King who said, "Forgiveting doesn't mean forgetting what happened but simply means that what happened is no longer an obstacle to building the future.". Here, with those words I'll finish my debate. I'm going to support this initiative, and I think praise is worth it. And once again I will appeal to my colleagues, let's not use other people's troubles for daily politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50826	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide later. We move on to the motion for a decision to declare the Day of Remembrance to prisoners of enemy camps during the Homeland War. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision declaring the Day of Remembrance of the prisoners of enemy camps during the Homeland War. Please, let's get involved and vote. What's the score? This decision, the motion for a decision, was adopted unanimously, with 110 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50829	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here at its 44th session, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs set out a unanimous proposal to elect Boris Šprem as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50830	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion to vote. Please raise your hands. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity with 107 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50831	Here at the same session was the unanimous proposal to elect Josip Leko as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50832	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Please raise your hands. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? In agreement with 107 votes, this proposal was accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50833	The same session unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to relieve the member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Nada Čavlović Smiljanec, and to be elected Vice-President Nada Čavlović Smiljanec and a member of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50834	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? A unanimously accepted proposal with 107 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50835	At the same session, the proposal was unanimously established to relieve members of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament Sonja Šimunović and to elect Silvano Hrelja as a member of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50836	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Please raise your hand. Against? Restraint? There isn't. The proposal was accepted by 107 votes, unanimously. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50837	At the same session, the proposal was unanimously set out to relieve members of the Croatian Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia Ivica Pančić and to elect Karolina Leaković as member of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50838	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity with 107 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50839	At the same meeting, the Committee adopted a proposal unanimously to resolve itself as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament Ivica Pančić and to elect Mario Habek as a member of the Environment Protection Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50840	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for the proposal? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? 107 votes, unanimous. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50841	The Committee also made a decision, in fact established a unanimous proposal to dismiss a member of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, Boris Šprem, and to elect Ivan Hanzek as a member of the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50842	The Committee also made a decision, in fact established a unanimous proposal to dismiss a member of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, Boris Šprem, and to elect Ivan Hanzek as a member of the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50843	The Committee unanimously set out the proposal to dismiss the duties of European Integration Committee member Branko Grčić and to elect Karolina Leakovic as a member of the European Integration Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50844	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for the proposal, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Score 107, unanimous, 107 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50845	The same session unanimously set out the proposal to relieve the member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, Antun Vujić, and to appoint the member of Karolina Leaković as a member of the Croatian Parliament in the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, and to be the deputy member of Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50846	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for this proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. A unanimous 107 vote. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50847	Here is a member of the Committee for decision-making on conflict of interest in the order of MPs, here is a proposal from the Committee to elect Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50848	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 106 votes in favour, one against and no abstentions. Based on the article, thank you very much. Do you have any more?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50849	Here at the same session was a unanimous proposal to dismiss a member of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives from the ranks of representatives of the multi-level union Krešimir Rogman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50850	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity accepted by 107 votes. Thank you, Mrs. Nevenki Majdenic. We move on to the proposal for a decision on the appointments of the Research Commission, and other appointments. I'd like the chairman of Mrs. Nevenko Majdenic's committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50852	Wait a minute. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At its 45th session held on 23 April 2009, the Election and Appointing Committee unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Research Commission to establish facts regarding the privatisation of INA Oil Industry d.d., and all contracts and supplements, contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner of the MOL. The INA Privatisation Commission of the Oil Industry d.d. and all contracts and supplements, contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Strategic Partner of MOL are named: For President Dragica Zgrebec, Vice-President Boris Kunst, Deputy Secretary Josip Salapić, and for members Ana Lovrin, Goran Marić, Zdravko Kelić, Zlatko Koračević, Josip Leko and Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50853	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The Commission's proposal was accepted by most 107 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50854	As a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee of the Union's High Level Representative, Marina Kasunić-Peris is named.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50855	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the argument. We can raise our hands. Who's for this proposal, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Score. This proposal was adopted unanimously with 114 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50856	Here is the Committee to propose the appointment of Krešimir Gulić to the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Assembly for a member.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50857	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50858	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Madam President of the Committee on Appointments, Elections and Administrative Affairs, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. The idea of outside board members is to be respected, public, scientific and professional staff who would assist us as representatives in the work of the board with their professional expertise, scientific expertise. THAT good idea has been completely compromised for the past six years and this is one pair of excellent examples of such compromise. What's the situation here? A fellow Gulić was our colleague until two months ago. It was obviously an internal agreement in HDZ that was replaced by Mrs. Djurdjica Sumrak, who instead became a representative in the Croatian Parliament and it is completely legitimate. The paradox arises in a situation where we now appoint our former colleague Krešimir Gulić as an external member of the Committee, from the ranks of public, scientific and professional staff for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, a man who is a graduate traffic engineer, who has never worked in agriculture, fishing or rural development. The idea of taking care of party people, on the burden of the budget, is further strengthened by the decision of this majority at the beginning of the term of office that the external board members receive compensation monthly for working on boards appeared or did not appear at committee meetings. And instead of having professional people, who help us in the work of the board, we get nothing but party care. This is the opposite of the idea that has been introduced, it is the opposite of the principles of good decision-making, and the damage to the state budget, and I will, not because of my fellow Gulic, but because of the principle that we are not actually doing what we should vote against this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50859	Thank you. I am closing the debate and voting on this proposal. Who's to be called Mr. Kresimir Gulic? Please count. Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 36 against and 1 abstention. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50860	For members of the University Council of the University of Zagreb, the Committee's proposal is to appoint academician Željko Reiner and professor of science Gvozden Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50861	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who would please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Score. This proposal was accepted by the majority of 113 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50862	The Committee's proposal is to dismiss a member of the Croatian Supervisory Board for Reconstruction and Development of Representatives Dragan Kovacevic and to appoint Nevenka Majdenic as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50863	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 114 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50864	Since the president and board members of the "Ivan Filipovic" award ended the term of office, the Minister of Science, Education and Sports sent the committee a proposal from the new president and members of the "Ivan Filipovic" award. The proposal is to appoint President Petar Selem in the Committee of the "Ivan Filipović" Award for members Mladen Boban, Josip Brana, Petar Mladenić, Nevenka Pašalic, Vlatko Previsic, Ružica Razum, Goran Sirovatka and Ivan Šutalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50865	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm in the middle of a debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please let him raise his hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The proposal was accepted unanimously by 114 votes. We move to the point of Elections and Appoints, please the chairman of the Committee, Ms. Nevenko Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50867	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament proposes that members of the National Committee of the Republic of Croatia, Hrvoje Cvitanović, and others be appointed representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mirjana Mladneo.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-03-26-0.u50868	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. For this Decision, most of the votes of 116 votes were cast in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
