ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61631	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Judicial Academy, which establishes the Judicial Academy as an independent and independent body that will carry out the permanent professional training of judicial officials, judicial advisers and trainees, and, in particular, at the State School for Judicial Officials, carry out the preparation and training of candidates for future judges, i.e. deputy state attorneys. This Law established the Judicial Academy as an independent institution in accordance with the Law on Institutions and was set aside from the Ministry of Justice. Amendments and additions to this Act propose that the Law on the Judicial Academy amend and supplement the provisions to extend the composition of the Governing Council from 9 members to 11 members. The Labour Act stipulates that at least 1 member of the Governing Council must be a representative of the employees. It is therefore proposed to extend the Council's composition in a way that is also made up of two representatives of the employees of the Judicial Academy. In accordance with the jurisdiction of the Administrative Board, the adoption of a Regulation on how to carry out and evaluate the written part of the examinations and the oral part of the admission exams to the State School for Judicial Officials referred to in Article 26(6) and Article 28(4) shall be subject to the adoption of a Regulation on how to carry out and evaluate the written part of the examinations and the oral part of the examinations for admission to the State School for Judicial Officials referred to in Article 26(6) and Article 28(4). The Law on the Judicial Academy proposes that the Administrative Council adopt those Regulations with the preliminary opinion of the State Judicial Council, i.e. the State Attorney's Council. The Law on the Judicial Academy stipulates that a competition for admission to the State School for Judicial Officials is to be opened on the basis of a plan, the number of judges and deputy state attorneys that the Ministry of Justice adopts for each calendar year. In view of the two-year duration of the State School of Judicial Officers, it was necessary to provide for Article 23(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law to amend and prescribe that the Ministry of Justice adopts a plan for two calendar years. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law prescribed that the invitation to tender at the state school would be opened according to the needs of the number of judges and deputy state attorneys for the area of one or more counties. It is now proposed that the state school competition be opened for the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, not for courts and state attorneys for the area of one or more counties. This Regulation shall enter into The Law on the Judicial Academy stipulates that the selection procedure of candidates for enrolment in a state school is carried out by the Committee for the Registration of Schools and the conduct of a final exam of 5 members. In view of the fact that the State Judicial Council, i.e. the State Attorney's Council, participates in the conduct of education at the State School of Judicial Officers and makes decisions on the appointment of Judges' Candidates, it is proposed that, instead of the current Committee, the selection procedure for Judges shall be carried out by the State Judicial Council and, for the Deputy State Lawyers, the State Attorney's Council. It is also proposed that final exams are not taken before the Committee but before the State Judicial Council, or the State Attorney's Council. This proposal also amends Article 30. A law stipulating that candidates admitted to public school become employees of courts or state lawyers. In order to determine more closely the status of candidates admitted to public school under the amended provision of Article 30, it is prescribed that candidates who are already advisors in courts and state attorneys and who are admitted to a state school have senior adviser status. The candidates who have been admitted to a state school and are not advisors to judicial bodies on the day of their admission to school shall establish a working relationship as senior advisers in courts or state attorneys where they are assigned by the State Judicial Council, or the State Attorney's Council. And the Proposer accepts the amendment of the Committee on Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61632	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, the chairman of the committee, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the 103rd session held on 20 October 2010, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy of course with the final proposal of the law. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. The following amendment shall be submitted to the text of the final draft law. The amendment, therefore, to Article 4, in the sense that Article 4 is amended and reads: "Article 25 is amended and reads as follows: The procedure for enrolment of candidates for judges in school is carried out by the State Judicial Council. And the process of enroling candidates for deputy state attorney in school is carried out by the State's Attorney's Council." Although these solutions are contained in the draft law in this way we think that in a better and better quality way, in fact, no-technically supplementing the expression itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61634	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61635	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here last year was passed a Law on the Judicial Academy, which, by way of a completely different law, we establish a way of choosing judges, state lawyers, or education, their education, preparation, I would say of the most important duties this society has entrusted them with, it is to judges and state lawyers, to those who decide the greatest human values, to their freedom, property, honor. We have also established this law on the judicial academy in essence and the way of promotion, because we see that both the State's Attorney's Council and the State's Judicial Council are engaged. But here's the law he hasn't even revived yet, he's just resuscitating, the academy has started working, he's got some rooms, he'd better have his own special property, he's got his own special building, so the ministry's thinking a little bit about giving both roles and significance to the judicial academy itself, not in someone's rented rooms. However, it is important and important and the most important is content itself. So this bill changes the composition of the Governing Council. Let's just remind ourselves who makes up the administrative council, and who are members of the board. The Administrative Council, to remind ourselves, has its permanent composition and those people who are appointed to a term of four years. So the permanent composition is the President of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice, the President of the State Judicial Council and the President of the State's Attorney's Council. Four members appointed on time of 4 years, one Supreme Court judge, a deputy chief state attorney and two representatives of university teachers of legal science. In practice, given this permanent composition, it is five people who decide at all who they will leave to have the possibility of schooling at the state school, they also assess, verify, and later, through the State Judicial Council or the State Attorney's Council, decide at all in the permanent service, as judges, or as state lawyers. Later on, when they become so, the State Attorney's Council, i.e. the State Judicial Council, also decides on their progress, i.e. their responsibilities. These are, of course, good models, because they absolutely leave all the powers to the judicial authority itself. The number is negligible and they can never be exceeded, nor can the minister of justice as a policy, nor can representatives of university teachers of legal sciences. It is practically in the hands of the judges themselves to decide who will come into their ranks, whom they will first of all educate, they judge them and this in all order that I have said. This bill changes this composition and adds to the employees, two employees, because we forgot about them. And it's not good that we forgot about employees, since the Labour Act says exactly that employees must also be members of the board. That's what I'm saying on the way because there are more important changes here than this one, and this one is also not only as a change significant, it should be found in basic law, the law when we've passed, because unfortunately here's the employee we just remember when we need to introduce a hack, when we need to introduce new taxes or raise taxes, or train discipline as taxpayers. It's become our habit and it needs to be changed. When they are given the legal opportunity to make decisions, it is forgotten regularly. So it's not a specific instrument of the Ministry of Justice, they're forgotten by the government as a whole. There's only so much about that change. But what seems to me to be significant changes, which is that the government is now suddenly giving up the competition for the state school, so for the candidates for the state school, it's staying under that programme, according to the programme of the need of judges and state lawyers, but in law so far it was, I think it was good, if necessary, for courts, for the area of one or more counties. This is perfectly normal, because if one judge is missing in the Zadar County Court, then why call and nowhere else is missing, then why call for an entire Croatian area? I don't know what it was going to do. Of course, whenever competitions are discussed, then there's always a need for more environments, but it can't just be the principle of economics here to be dominant. Secondly, the more important it seems to me, little by little by abolishing courts, by abolishing state lawyers, and now here by eliminating the need to assess needs in view of the needs of one or more counties we are conducting an absolute centralisation of everything and everything in Croatia. That's not allowed. Because at the end of the day, not all institutions exist for the sake of the state itself, but for the people and their needs. The need for one or more officials, and in this particular case of judicial officials, or those who have yet to become, because they are missing, so they need to be educated, so all these assumptions and previous actions must be created, the area, the territory, where people live. There you need to know how to respond to their needs. So it seems to me that this solution is a step back from a few more amendments to this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy. The reasons for the bill do not show what led the applicant to submit to this amendment. Furthermore, these amendments, by proposal for amendments to Art. 25. It is proposed to select more candidates for the State School, let's not think that these are some candidates who have a little more education, these are people who can and only be judges and state lawyers tomorrow. Which I think is good because it's taken care of from the very beginning. But precisely because we've already decided in the beginning that they're already candidates, they're tomorrow's judges and state lawyers, to make this procedure as transparent as possible. Such remarks and the SDP club had voiced one concern that the commission itself formed by this law would make an adequate and proper choice of candidates for judges. This role is now given to the State Judicial Council, or the State Attorney's Council. I think that's a good way to do it because it's usually people who, at later stages, can best evaluate these candidates. But here the question is once again, it's a unique system that we are introducing here with regard to the judicial authority, so we have no such authority that the state gives to a branch of government. So they're about to decide who they're going to choose as candidates, they're going to educate them, they're going to verify that knowledge, they're going to choose them, or they're going to name them as judges, or state lawyers, given that they have a dominant majority in the State Judicial Council, or the State Attorney's Council. They will also decide when to promote them and whether or not any of them will also decide on their strict responsibility. These are great tasks and great powers. Then there must be a great and greatest responsibility for these very people. And in order for their responsibility to really be adequate then there must be both the best possible and the best objective criteria. We've already established them in certain amendments to the law, to that package we've brought. But more important than all that is how it works in practice. How many of these people, above all, the judicial officials we are now giving the greatest possible authority, are bravely resisted by any kind of pressure. On paper and in this bill, it is hardly possible to object, but practice is something else. Unfortunately, there are advisers in Croatia, even 8 years of age, who have been advisors to this day. And who have all the best recommendations of those who follow them. So, the judge who practically works, the advisors are making decisions for the judge. They have all possible recommendations from the Judicial Council, the Judicial Council in those courts where they are employed. And the question arises how is it that they are not appointed to this day as judicial officials, or judges? It can't be. I can't be calculating that the bridge is stable, that it's standing, and in practice as soon as it's made it collapses. These are great injustices that we will not be silent about. And I'm asking, here's the secretary of state, to examine all the cases and to subscribe to the public, that's what we're going to look for through the board, and I think the Justice Committee has that kind of power to see what's going on because it's not an individual case. Now, what's going on with these amendments to the law? And we could react to that. It's not normal for a court counselor, here it's good to have their status, but only those who have been admitted to State School, but the number of those who can be admitted to State School is limited. What about those people who have worked for 7.8 years who are not judges but are running to join the State School as the most ordinary beginners, and the question of whether they will be chosen at all? So everything is nicely transparent, and the biggest injustices happen that may not have happened so far. It is good that these amendments to Article 30 are prescribed that advisers, to take care of advisors who are running for the State School and that they have the status of senior advisors, or those for the State's Attorney's Office, also have the status of senior advisor in the State's Attorney's Office. But it's not the same counsellor who's just been admitted, who's been working for a few months and who's been working for years, who can already be the judge of the County Court tomorrow, and he's got to go back to school and question whether he'll even be admitted. I ask the answers to these questions and these formally legal nature, but also essential. Here, and it all depends on whether the SDP club supports this bill. We support it in principle, however, if, despite the law passed, and even in these amendments, these things happen, we are looking for an explanation so that we can and then take our stand on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61636	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61637	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judicial Academy as it supported the adoption of the Law on the Judicial Academy last year, which came into force and the Judicial Academy began its work on 1.1 this year. The Republic of Croatia is aware that an independent, impartial and effective judiciary is important for the exercise of the principle and rule of law and the legal security of citizens. Also, trust in the judiciary and in the entire system of justice depends on how transparent it is and how clearly rules are laid down in advance for entering judicial duties as well as for their career progress. It is precisely by recognising all of this I must say that the amendments to the laws of many amendments to the laws, amendments, improvements for many years in this part of the law that achieve these criteria and this transparency, which is the Law on Courts, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the Law on the State's Judicial Council, and now the Law on the Judicial Academy are systematically improving these criteria in order to ultimately get what we really want, and these are quite clear criteria predetermined and measurable for entering judicial duties and for career advancement. In this context, it is absolutely necessary to establish objective standards of training for judicial officials to enable future young judges and state lawyers to obtain the necessary skills and skills. In fact, we are all witnesses and we have been watching this for many years that young lawyers who enter as trainees and who prepare for future judicial and state attorney duties have been going through it, I would say unfairly because their education and progress depended, in fact, on which court, where they got involved, how much the individual president of the court cared about, or how many mentors might have used them to say so for ground-hand things in the performances, the pounding of the stamps, etc. And they actually ignored their education system that they had to go through during training. So, we're going back to the law we're talking about today, and we're talking about amendments to the Law on the Judicial Academy that we recently passed, but the ministry is now proposing some further improvements to make the functioning of the Justice Academy truly impeccable. To remind you, the Judicial Academy is not the newspaper that was created this year. So, the Judicial Academy grew up from the Centre for Training of Judges and in 2004 the Judicial Academy was set up as the administration of the justice ministry system. From that fifth year to this day, up to its independence in a completely independent institution, it has made great progress in education and education, both as counselors and already appointed judges in their lifelong education. Let me just point out that from the very beginning when about a thousand students passed through the Justice Academy workshops since 2004. I have the latest data for 2006 when there were already 2,000 900 almost means more than the almost triple number of workshops has doubled. All of this has contributed to the fact that the Judicial Academy is actually empowering the stand in an independent institution. And this Law on the Judicial Academy all amendments to these Laws on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council are on the trail of strategic studies for the creation of unique, objective and transparent criteria for entering the judicial and state-level law profession and the establishment of a State School for Judicial Officials, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in December 2008 and respecting also the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the recommendations and suggestions of the EU. So, by this law today, we support the changes that are proposed. Some that we hold necessary, some minor but certainly changes that will contribute to further improving the work of the Judicial Academy. Here is the entry into the Administrative Council of Employees according to existing Croatian laws. We also believe that a good change in which the consent of the State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council is sought in the adoption of the rules in the way in which exams, written and oral examinations are conducted and evaluated. For the simple reason that these changes have been introduced as bodies that will also conduct the procedure for entering the state school and also final exams. There has been a talk about this change to advertise free spots for the entire Croatian area, and most of all for the area for one county or more counties. This is on the trail of European practice. There has been a lot of insistence to discuss national competitions, so on the occasion of an open tender, equal entry and valorisation of candidates from all over Croatia, and therefore the choice of places where those who have passed that valorisation will work to be the only criterion, the criterion of excellence, means those who are the best with the highest grades and features ended up in a judicial school to be the first on the list to choose a place where they will work of course from the free places. I also believe that it is good and I welcome this amendment at the HDZ Club in Article 25, that the registration procedure, as well as the final exams, is not carried out by the commission, but that it is in the jurisdiction of the State Judicial Council or the State Attorney's Council for the reasons that we have ensured with the final constitutional changes that these two bodies are indeed independent bodies for decision-making in the career of the judicial officer and for their progress. Therefore, we feel that it is good for those bodies to do so, and not for some other commissions that he will appoint, which no one will ever know about, in fact, who they are and who they correspond to. So, as far as the last amendments to this law are concerned, which is, I wouldn't say, changes but actually add up, or closer to determination, so that there are no doubts, in which position in the employment relationship is entered by persons admitted to the state school, so that they are guaranteed the status of senior advisor. I think that's good because in that status it's really going to be the best ones to pass the selection, and I think that Madam Secretary of State could say how much pressure it was to enroll in a state school and what percentage of it was received if they had passed. I'm not sure if the contest was closed, but certainly more candidates were free seats. So I really believe that they are the most excellent and that they deserve the status of senior advisor. Here, since it is a few improvements in the law that has recently entered into force and a law that governs the State School for Judges as one segment in the work of the Judiciary Academy, let's not forget that the Judicial Academy actually has three parts. It is the education of trainees, state school and the education of already judges and state lawyers who have already been elected judges, of course in terms of their complete education, thereby independence and impartiality and professionalism and career opportunities. Over the past few years, a system has been established through the laws and set up that even this advancement cannot happen without systematic education, so each education, each passing workshop brings points that are one of the criteria for progress in a judicial or state-level law career. This is why the Croatian Democratic Community club will support these changes, expecting the first members of the State School for Judges and State Lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61638	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61639	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy are consistent and necessary because of the harmonisation of this law to a package of laws that we have passed on to the State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council and the radical amendment of procedures, the criteria that will be used for the entry of new people into the state's attorney and judicial profession as well as for the advancement of people within the profession. We believe that this law that actually regulates the status of the law is originally the law, not in this amendment, which regulates the status of the State School for Judicial Officials, shows that sometimes with one small and at first glance, a major and root change can begin. This law is when it was passed in this Parliament regarding the State School for Judicial Officials in fact started this fundamental change of structure and building the foundation for the future of building an independent judiciary in Croatia. We supported this as a club of HNS and HSU, and we think it's really a positive shift. And from the perspective of what we usually consider to be the benefit that Croatia can benefit from the process of joining the European Union, this is, in the opinion of the HNS and HSU club, the absolute benefit we have so far from the process of joining the European Union, so from the very process where the ability we suspect would be based without it on a different judiciary and a different selection of people who are entering the profession and who are progressing in the profession. Therefore, that is what I would say to the entire topic which the HNS Club, HSU, supports and according to this and this harmonisation that is ahead of us, so the harmonisation of the Law on the Judicial Academy in this section relating to the State School for Judicial Officials with the laws of roofs that we have adopted in this House. One of the key things that we have done in these laws is objective criteria, therefore definition, so, if you want, perhaps in some ideal circumstances and too precise for the law to define the criteria, but obviously in the opinion of all of us, since we have brought this together, a necessary precise definition of the criteria for selecting and promoting people in the profession, as well as a new fully model based on which the State Judiciary Council and the State Attorney's Council will be elected. So, not like what is now in force, which is chosen by the policy or parliamentary majority, so politics, but a body that will not choose politics, but will choose a profession that gives opportunity and space to stand on its feet. In this context, it is logical that the State Judiciary Council and the State Attorney's Council also select people who are candidates to say so for entering the profession and pass through the State School for Judicial Officials so that they can even get into the profession. It is logical that these are the institutions that select these people, and no longer a special commission, because now both the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council will be chosen by these different criteria and by a different model than before, and then there is neither the danger of political influence nor political criteria. You remember that in the laws that we have passed, these roofs, and with which we are now harmonising this law that is before us today and some of the changes that are going towards reducing the influence of arbitral criteria. And anyone who has ever been in that situation knows that the oral part of the exam is always subject to the personal judgment of the interrogator more than the written part of the exam. Therefore, it is the written part of the examination that can be obtained from an insight, where it can be clearly verified and determined by the knowledge or quality of the answer. The oral part of the exams however perfect the interrogator always carries with him and that personal formula, so if you remember in those roof laws on state, State Judgment, the State Attorney's Council and the change in which the number of points on the oral exam is reduced in order to strengthen the impact of points on the written exam and those points obtained from the average rating that the candidate achieved or the candidate achieved on the law study. In this sense, as a HNS club, we propose to HSU here and one amendment, and that amendment may have been found, and if it is not on your benches and it refers to Article 7 in these amendments, i.e. Article 28 in the basic text of the law. Therefore, Article 28 of the basic text of the law states that the oral part of the examinations is called for by twice as many candidates as the number of candidates received at the State School for Judicial Officials, namely candidates who scored the most points on the judicial exam or on the written part of the examination. Our amendment goes in the next direction. We believe that if you call twice as many candidates, then the written part of the exam loses its impact, i.e. on the secretion. You remember that in the Law on the State Judicial Council, we wrote that only the candidates who achieved the best, so the highest results in the sum of the points of the written exam and the average of the grades in the study, go to the oral exam. Therefore, in order to reduce the possibility of arbitral influence which, by the logic of the matter, is such an oral part of the examination, we believe that in this Article 28., 50% more candidates are invited to attend the State School for Judicial Officials. Because if you call them twice as many, they're almost all of them, and in that case, it leaves a much bigger space for the influence of the oral part of the exam on the selection of people entering the State School for Judicial Officials. So in order to reconcile the spirit of this law and the logic of this procedure with the logic of the procedure that we have already defined and about which we have agreed in the Law on the State Judicial Council, we propose not to call on the oral part of the exam twice as many candidates, but to invite 50% more candidates. It still opens up quite a lot of space, but in our opinion it contributes to the accuracy of the criteria in the selection of people who will enter that State School for Judicial Officials, and of course it is not just one formal thing. They are actually people who are given a chance to get into that profession, that is, those professions. Because people who won't go through the State Justice School will not be able to get into those professions. So we think that this is very important to make the criteria more transparent and to put emphasis on what is verifiable, and these are the results of the written part of the test. Since this article is touched in these amendments and additions, then we propose an amendment to this article. We have as a club of HNS and HSU another remark. I'm going to bring it out here even though I can't formally do anything about it because it's an article that doesn't touch these changes and supplements. But I propose to the ministry to consider this possibility, given that it is a defacto merely to comply with what we have already decided and adopted in the Law on the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council. It is, in fact, an article in Article 29 of the original law that is not subject to this amendment here. So we don't have an amendment, because we can't. But we recommend it to your attention. If you remember in the Law on the State Judicial Council, we have defined that the ranking list published on the Internet of candidates with results that have been based on three criteria. So, a written exam, an average score and an oral exam of one hundred thirty, twenty points for the ranking list to be published on the Internet with a total number of points and a number of points each of these categories. So with the number of points, how many candidates has the total number of points and how many points he scored or scored on the written part of the exam, how many points he got from the average score and how many on the oral part of the exam. Here in Article 29, the list of championships is published on the Web pages of the Academy. We propose to the ministry to consider the possibility that the list of points can be published on the web pages of the academy, but to publish not only the aggregate total number of points, and according to this law 70% of points can be obtained from the written part of the exam, 30% from the oral one, but also to publish with the total number of points and the number of points that the candidate or candidate scored in the written part of the exam and the number of points that he scored on the oral part of the exam, that is no additional job, and the contribution to transparency of the whole procedure and the integrity of the insight that both candidates and all others who are interested in having in the whole process. Here is one in the form of an amendment, on Article 7 of the amendment and addition, that is, Article 28 of the original text of the law, because we believe that it is consistent and consistent with what we have already defined in other laws. This second HNS and HSU club recommends considering the ministry, to see if it can be agreed on. Thank you very much for this job, and the HNS and HSU club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61640	Thank you. We've finished discussing the clubs, we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61641	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Introductoryly, I would like to remind you that the Law on the Judicial Academy, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2009, has been established by the Judicial Academy as an independent body for the implementation of professional training of judicial officials, judicial advisers and trainees. While the State School for Judicial Officials is established to train candidates for future judges and state lawyers. This is one of the laws that the Republic of Croatia has passed in the process of harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy are in line with the Labour Act, the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office. The coordination is reflected in the following, the composition of the Governing Council is extended from 9 to 11 members, as the Labour Act provides for the participation of staff representatives in the work of the Council. In order to adopt a rule on how to conduct and evaluate the written part of the exams and the oral part of the exams for admission to the State School for Judicial Officials, the preliminary opinion of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council should be obtained. The plan for the required number of judges and state lawyers is also proposed for two years, not for one, as long as it is the duration of the school for judicial officials, while tendering is prescribed for the territory of Croatia as a whole. The proposal is further extended to the State Judicial Council and to the State's Attorney's Council for the registration of candidates to school, and final exams shall be held before those bodies. In view of the above, I support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy, in order to ensure that all assumptions are made for the opening of first-generation competitions for the members of the State School for Judicial Officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61642	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61643	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So before us is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy with the final proposal of the law, so the law is in an emergency procedure. This law proposes to amend and supplement certain provisions, which are in a certain part of the consequences, as already stated by the adoption of a novel of the Law on Courts and the Law on State Attorneys, and the adoption of the Law on the State Judicial Council, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 1 October of this year, or are therefore linked to the opening of tenders for the first generation of state school students for judicial officials, in accordance with the provisions of these laws again. According to these laws, only candidates who have completed a public school for judicial officials may be appointed as judge, i.e. deputy state attorney, as from 1 January 2013. It is therefore also the reason why this law is proposed by emergency procedure. The Law on the Judicial Academy, which entered into force on 1 January 2010, introduced a paper on the introduction of uniform, objective and transparent criteria for entering the profession of judges and state lawyers and their more systematic and quality education. The judicial academy therefore implements the initial education and training of candidates for the independent and impartial conduct of judicial duties, the judicial education of trainees and judicial advisers, and the continued training of judicial officials, so this is really about the lifelong education of judicial officials. The law also set up the Judicial Academy from the Ministry of Justice, and was founded as an independent and independent institution. It now has legal capacity, and the method of appointment, i.e. the composition of the body of the management of the academy, also confirms its real independence. As regards the proposed amendments and additions to this law, it is therefore proposed, as already stated and said, to the administrative board and representatives of the staff of the Academy, to adopt a rule on how to conduct and evaluate the written part of the examination and the oral part of the examinations for the admission to the State's school for judicial officials, with the preliminary opinion of the State Judicial Council and the State's Attorney's Council, which so far has not been, that the competition for the state school is being opened for the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia and not only for the courts and state attorneys for the areas of one or more counties, that the selection procedure for judges be conducted by the State Judiciary Council, and the Deputy State Attorney's Council, instead of the Commission, as it has been prescribed, that the final examination is to be passed before the State Judicial Council, i.e.e. the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice, etc. So there are other provisions that change. So given what I've said, given that there are further improvements to the Law on the Judicial Academy, I will support the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions to the urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61644	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Ana Lovrin, continues the individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to get involved very briefly in an individual debate, I was speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club about this law, so there is no point in repeating it, but only one problem that I personally want to present here as a representative, and that is the question that has been raised by my colleague Anticevic, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, is the question of advisers, existing advisers in courts. In fact, I have also proposed an amendment to the Law on Courts in that sense, it is not accepted, but here I would ask the Ministry indeed to reconsider the problem once more. In fact, it is about counselors like her colleague who have been court counselors for 7, 8 years, and this problem is exclusively in large courts. So, at the Zagreb court, the Split court has a large number of advisers. They are extremely useful in the work of the court. These are people who are already almost being tried completely and practically educated. According to the transitional provisions, it turns out that after 31.12.2012, when the first candidates from the Court School are expected they will never actually be appointed judges again. Of course, if they don't go back to Court school. As it comes to people who have really already been educated and through education and through the Judicial Academy, I really think you should consider that this deadline, we have time for another 2 years, may be extended and that one quota of these judicial posts may be left to allow these people to enter the judicial profession. In fact, smaller courts have no problem with this because mostly existing advisers are eventually appointed judges because the ratio of open court seats and advisers is correspondence. So, only in the event that their quality of work does not satisfy them will they be promoted, but here is now this new law to adopt predicts these advisory places indefinitely. Which means that if they don't pass the Court School, and they're almost 7 or 8 years old, they have experience and knowledge won't be able to be judges. They did not become judges because they were bad qualities because, or had they not met the criteria of some choice because I would not even mention it, they would rightly remain unnamed. But the rest are as simple as that because the counselor is a lot, and the venues didn't open that much during that time. Here's how I think it's about a number of people who would be precious to the courts and the Croatian judiciary because they already know how to work, they're already educated, of course they'll answer, I expect it to be an answer so I can apply for the Court School, but maybe it should be psychologically understood. These are people who have been through both the exercise and the judicial exam and all the education through the Justice Academy workshops for 7 or 8 years and now they really feel so little injury, so to speak, they're going back to the Court School with someone who's just finished and passed the internship. Here, therefore, I would ask the Ministry to take note of the objections of counterpart Anticevic not in the sense that some investigations should be carried out why someone failed to be appointed, someone is, it is neither our authority, but to try to consider extending the deadline perhaps for some time after 01.01.2013 for perhaps only one part of the free future judicial posts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61646	Thank you. And we have one replica, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I would like to replicate to an esteemed colleague in that sense or in that part of her debate when she spoke, and she was actually talking about the need to define the status of advisers in relation to the regulations we are making and in that segment would agree with her in the sense that we should define their status, elaborately elaborate on their status so that their multi-annual effort and work would not actually become one status that they are in an unequal position in relation to other candidates or that this unequal situation could indeed occur in terms of their future progress. As a rule, these are young, valuable and professional and capable people, and I think, in any case, that we should find all these opportunities and even in terms of accepting these proposals in order to make these things impossible, and the specific situations that can happen in life, that is, in courts, especially when it comes to large courts. And just one more thing, I'm not sure that we should accept the proposal that the Committee on Justice as the working body of the Croatian Parliament is based on what we've had to hear so far, so it actually turns into one body that solves complaints or suggestions from all those people who are in the judiciary, and they're unhappy about some things or because of the inability in this case of progress or their position in relation to other candidates. The Committee on Justice is the working body of the Croatian Parliament with all those powers established by the Rules of Procedure and I do not think that it should intervene in this respect and that it has its business position precise which should not be touched in that segment, but it is certainly necessary to consider once more the status of advisers especially those who carry out this in a quality way, for many years and allow them in this respect equal conditions for progress in the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61648	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61649	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with my colleague Tomljanovic absolutely with you in everything and according to these latest observations on the jurisdiction of the Justice Committee. And I really believe that these people, who end up towards a judicial career, the career of a judge and a state lawyer, should have entered into one condition, in all things met the conditions in force then, or even now in force, to advance the career, so to appoint a judge and a state attorney, that they would have to do so for another longer period. Don't be afraid of the fact that we're going to be disabling. Namely, the system we set out on transparency and clear criteria for choice for the simple reason that today the judicial advisers are already applying to the place of the judge and the state's attorney's office passing the exams. So today they are taking exams in front of the State Judicial and State Attorney's Council, written and oral talks with the candidates. So that choice is far more systematic and transparent than it was a few years ago. And that's why we don't have to be afraid of some kind of bias or intransparency if we can extend that deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61650	Thank you. And on the order of the individual debate, the esteemed representative of the Nenad Trail. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61651	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I reported that I would talk about this legislative proposal while I can speak at all in the House until the HDZ threat issued through the Constitution of Vice-President Vladimir Seks that SDP's work would be banned by law. I don't know when that threat will start to come true, but here's the thing, while I still have the chance until the SDP's work is banned, so any speech in this House might be one of the last opportunities to say something about this bill. The judiciary must be not only independent but also high-quality. There is no quality judiciary without high-quality judicial officials. The founding of the Judicial Academy was one of the most important events on the road. The founding of the Judicial Academy, we didn't think of it alone. We established a judicial academy because it is a request from the Council of Europe. I don't know what you're going to learn or what you learn at colleges at the Judicial Academy to get quality officials. But I'm sure if that college doesn't exist, we'll have to get him in there. College to discuss the Constitution, on the greatest constitutional values recorded in Article 3. The constitution, and one of these constitutional values is also a multi-party democratic system. These people who pass the exams and follow the colleges at the Judicial Academy will either have to determine from yesterday according to threats aimed at destroying these constitutional values, to ban a political party. So I recommend that those who lead this judicial academy to read carefully the statement of Vice-President of the Parliament of Seks, study the threat carefully and introduce candidates at their academy to the danger of such action in the Croatian Parliament. The appointment of judicial officials or their admission to the Judicial Academy must be subject to objective criteria. That's the Law of the Judicial Academy. It wasn't always like that. In the 1990s, the judge was appointed to the Croatian Assembly in the Committee on Elections and Appoints. And of course the chosen judges were subject to political pressure, because politics chose them, politics replaced them. In the 1990s, a huge number of judicial officials, high-quality, excellently educated, left the Croatian judiciary. They just left because of political pressure. All right, the laws have been amended in the meantime, it's secured, and every day these objective criteria for the election and education of officials are improved. Despite this promotion, we could hear here a few years ago that the genetic predisposition of a particular candidate is important in the appointment of a judicial duty. And such a statement was made here in the Assembly by elected deputies. So this college, too, may need to be introduced into the Judicial Academy on the fact that genetic material does not have to be ruled out when judicial officials are elected. So, I support the amendment and addition of this law. I will vote for this law. I commend the ministry and the government for proposing such a law, because it represents a promotion. I support this law in the end I want to say, not because of fear, that my different attitude could result in the SDP being abolished or the SDP being banned, but because I think that every promotion in the judiciary is welcome, that we need it and that it is useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61652	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations and two replicas. First, the correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So MP Stazic incorrectly speaks when he says he's using the last chance here in the Assembly to speak until he forbids someone from SDP. I warn Mr. MPs that he will speak freely in this Croatian Parliament as long as his parliamentary mandate is held regardless of what happens with the SDP. And what I also want to say is that no one will ban the SDP, and only the Constitutional Court can do so as long as the SDP programme is in accordance with the Constitution and the Croatian laws as our Constitution says. And Mr. Stazic can speak freely here as long as he has the mandate of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And another incorrect allegation, which is that the sentence about the genetic predisposition for the judge is spoken here in the Croatian Parliament. It is incorrect and false and no one has said it here from the MPs, but some MPs are very fond of boasting outside this House with their family pedigre.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61654	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Đurdjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A series of incorrect allegations as well as the usual representative of Kim Noble, pardon not Noble not him but Mr Stazic, he knows who is the gentleman who, with the voice of depression and so these world losers are just trying to incorrectly cite here and the allegations that colleague Lovrin said, and that someone in this House wants to abolish the SDP. That's not true, it's never spoken, and you can use Kim Noble's voice, if you don't know who it is, look, check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61656	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, a respected colleague, among other things, incorrectly said that a constitutional law college is yet to be introduced in a judicial academy, studying constitutional law in a specific and special way. That's not true, of course, because whoever comes to the Judicial Academy has passed through the College of Constitutional Law, so also at the Faculty of Law and later on. So it is impossible at all to get into that position without someone being familiar with all the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So in this sense, his concern for the fortification of any political party or party is absolutely unnecessary, and perhaps it is necessary to look into the light of respect for our duty to respect all decisions of the judicial authorities, in particular the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61658	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, quite certain that the establishment and work of the Judicial Academy will not solve all problems in the Croatian judiciary, and you well conclude that the least judicial academy will address the issue of democracy in the Croatian Parliament. If the academy could succeed and eliminate political influences, it would be huge progress, but I don't believe it. That is another, to say the least, establishing a commission when other means cannot address the issue of political influence on courts. And as far as I have entered the legal proposal of the Constitutional Court judge and will not go to the Judicial Academy, the Constitutional Court's trial will remain as it did in the assessment of the need or the need for a referendum. In such a situation, this is just another laboratory study which can be recommended from the European Union to Croatia to do so as to see if it has any effect. Unfortunately, I don't believe in that effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61660	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61661	Dear colleague Leko, you see, unlike you, I believe that even those who have graduated from the academy may be taught something, because this threat to the ban on a political party has been issued by a graduate lawyer, not anyone. This is not what counterpart Kunst or Matušić said, but said by a person with legal knowledge and a long-standing political experience, very influential. Therefore, I think that for such high-level lawyers as Mr. Seks should have introduced an additional college at the Judicial Academy or elsewhere to teach them what the highest values of the constitutional order mean and could mean in society the threat of abolishing the political party. What you're saying about the Constitutional Court is that, by doing so, it's more serious, it's more life-threatening, when we know that the Constitutional Court has crossed over the will of 700 thousand citizens in the matter of the referendum, so that it does not go beyond the will of 700, 800 thousand citizens who vote for the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61662	Thank you. Well, I have to intervene because this assembly says a lot of very difficult qualifications, words, insults, and the day before yesterday. Well, in that context, I don't think we should look back on that one statement because then we should practically discuss the debate in the Croatian Parliament. It was from your ranks so harshly offensive words at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Community that it was terrifying. However, I think that we should go back and thus argue that this should not be but rather make sure that such and similar statements do not come up in the future. And a replica, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61663	Dear fellow Members, as much as we are trying here today to correct our HDZ colleagues, you are really warning about a good thing, because it is bizarre that the vice-president of the Croatian Parliament and vice-president of the HDZ is telling us here today, I quote: "you could come under the law and ban the SDP political party", that in a situation when the vice-president and vice-president of the HDZ say so, while both the Prime Minister and the president of the HDZ are present in the Chamber and all the vice-presidents of the Assembly and the vice-presidents of the HDZ, saying that it is not an isolated incident but clearly designed party policy. From this party policy today, we are getting bill proposals that actually completely deny the true state of things that has been shown, Mr. Vice President, not in the heat of the debate. My colleague Lovrin here said you can talk here, and I quote, "No matter what happens with SDP" what to suggest that some SDP events will happen. So really bizarre, and some might say more optimistic, that some in the HDZ state obviously have a pretty good sense of humor and I have to admit that it reminds me a little that people are closed, they're being investigated because they've done their promotional activities for the anti-corruption campaign in a corrupt way. It's really bizarre.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61664	Thank you. I'll do it again. The answer, yes, yes, there is, there is, just to say. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please don't throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look, is it okay for us to discuss only one statement today, or will we open the agenda for debates in the Croatian Parliament? You know, please, I'm just setting it up as a topic. Is it to call that the top of HDZ is what Jovanovic said not to repeat, whether it's okay or not. Please. Let's move on. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61665	My colleague Lugaric, that's what I'm afraid of. You're right to warn. Neither the Prime Minister nor the Speaker of the Parliament, nor the HDZ, and a full councilwoman has responded to such a dangerous counter-constitutional statement by the vice-president of the parliament. Today we have confirmation of two statements again. Mrs. Lovrin says no matter what happens with the SDP, you will be able to speak to Stazic. SDP no, we'll ban it, no matter what happens with the Parliament. And the vice-president, the vice-president of the parliament, says difficult offensive words at the expense of the HDZ, must be justifying such a statement. So watch out SDP said you didn't want to repeat that sentence. The SDP said a political matter not only through the words of counterparts Jovanovic. It is the political position of the SDP, but it is also the opinion of a large majority of the country's citizens that the HDZ summit is a criminal organisation. Because of that statement, Vice President Shakespeare is threatening to ban the SDP. With that ban, you now find an excuse for this ban because there were difficult words, and Mrs. Lovrin says no matter what happens with the SDP that follows. The Prime Minister is silent, the President of the Parliament is silent, the entire HDZ is silent, you all agree. This is obviously HDZ policy, HDZ policy to ban SDP's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61666	Thank you very much. You might want to, but HDZ doesn't do it for sure, neither can this country do it, nor will it. You might want to, but it would be good if you also discussed these qualifications that are given here at the expense of the HDZ. Don't give me that. You can't throw it out of the bench. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 210 has been injured. I would like to say that the representatives of the SDP are discussing in three replicas not the agenda point of the Judicial Academy, but the statements about the statements given, and the performance in the Croatian Parliament, I just wanted to point out that the honorary duty of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament is ahead of the political party because it is a direct election and whether or not it is a ban, not of the SDP but of any political parties in this country can be exclusively decided by the Constitutional Court in accordance with Article 129 of the Croatian Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61668	Thank you very much. Look, the Rules of Procedure are not hurt by keeping the subject, because in the context of the topic you can speak and everyone is saying and using it. Unfortunately. That's right, but that's how we've now concluded individual debates and replicas and corrections. So the final secretary at the Ministry of Justice, the esteemed Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61669	Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. Thank you very much for all the comments and suggestions. I remained in charge of the answer and the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, and the esteemed representative Lovrin, related to the court advisers. Namely, it is true, the court advisers who are now in court as court advisors will compete for entering the Judicial Academy as well as all other candidates, with this very long-standing experience they have being one big plus in the competition and absolutely the result that will be obtained if it is really a quality, and it is a matter of quality and professional people that even this admission to the Judicial Academy can easily overcome and with their long-standing experience actually cross those steps that await them. That seems to work I won't say it unfairly, but perhaps even unfairly to people who have been working in courts for many years as advisers. Some of them may not even want to compete for judicial school attendance because we also have examples that simply want to remain court counselors and all those who want to become judges may now have a more transparent way. Because by entering a judicial school, they have a more transparent choice for judges. Here's so much for answering your question. And at the end of the day, the Proposer accepts the amendment of the HNS Club, HSU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61670	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met. Otherwise, when I say "voting," we'll vote at 12:00 p.m. on the points of the agenda,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61671	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 623. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HNS Legislative and Club Committee, HSU. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and clubs and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judicial Academy together with the amendments adopted. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 105 votes for, 4 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61672	And now we're going to the 11th point of the agenda. It is - Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, first reading, P.Z. No. 626. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was held: the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61673	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. According to the current Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, 55 municipal state-level lawyers and 21 County State's Attorney's Office have been established. Since the rationalisation of county and commercial courts is under way, and the proposal for a new Law on Areas and Seats of Courts is being prepared and a total of 15 county courts and 7 commercial courts are to be established, it is necessary to access the detailed rationalisation of the network of state attorneys that would be in line with the network of county courts in the Republic of Croatia. In the preparation of this draft law, an analysis has been carried out on the number of cases, the annual inflow of cases, the number of state lawyers and deputy state attorneys in the county state's attorneys' offices, and the areas and seats of the County State's attorneys' offices have been established in accordance with the areas and headquarters of the County State's courts as well as the areas and headquarters of the Municipal State's attorneys' offices. This law therefore establishes 15 County State Attorneys and determines the areas of jurisdiction and determines the seats in which they will operate as well as the Municipal State Attorney's Office under the jurisdiction of each County State Attorney's Office. It is proposed that the institutions of the following County State Attorney's Office and determine the areas of their jurisdiction as well as the seats: County State's Attorney's Office in Bjelovar, County State's Attorney's Office in Dubrovnik, County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek, County State's Attorney's Office in Pula or Poli, County State's Attorney's Office in Rijeka, County State's Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod, County State's Attorney's Office in Sisak, County State's Attorney's Office in Split, County State's Attorney's Office in Sibenik, County State's Attorney's Office in Varazdin, County State's Attorney's Office in Velika Gorica, County State's Attorney's Office in Vukovar, County State's Office in Zadar in Zadar, and the County's District Attorney's Office in Zagreb. According to the bill, the following county state attorneys of the County State Attorney's Office in Bjelovar will be joined by the County State Attorney's Office in Koprivnica and Virovitica, the County State's Attorney's Office in Karlovac, the County State's Attorney's Office in Gospić, the County's State's Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod, the County State's Attorney's Office in Požega, the County State's Attorney's Office in Varazdin, is joined by the County State's Attorney in Čakovec and Zlatar. The rationalisation of the network of county state attorneys will be implemented by 31 December 2019, as well as the rationalisation of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia, and in accordance with the decision on the dynamics of merger of state attorneys and ensuring the necessary conditions for work, technical equipment and provision of spatial conditions for the work of state lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61674	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Legislatives, the Honorable Representative Emil Tomljanovic, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the 103rd session held on 20 October 2010, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 30 September 2010. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law, and the text of the proposal makes a principle note that legal and nomotechnical expression should be completed when establishing the text of the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61676	Thank you. And I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club will not support this proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. During the SDP coalition's term of office, we opened it, not closed the judicial bodies. The question which, when such drafts of the law, were similar to that of the amendments to the Law on Areas and Courts, where a number of courts were abolished by a feather move. Rulers say they don't stop, they join together. But please, if, for example, the County State's Attorney's Office is abolished here, i.e. it connects in Chakovec and Zlatar and attaches it to Varazdin, then it no longer exists. We believe that rationalisation, which is the only argument here, so the question of rational treatment will not lead to efficiency, and the issue of the suspension of many agencies, numerous institutions, is the truth that many of them should not have been established, but this does not apply to courts, nor to state attorneys. We didn't get an explanation here that these are the funds that will be saved in the state budget. However, the main fact that these courts serve is not being taken into account here at all, but rather being served by the state itself as a state, but by the people, but by the citizens. If certain state attorneys are abolished as in Koprivnica, Virovitica, Gospić, Požega, Čakovec, Zlatar, there is a question of what will happen to these people, what will happen to not only employees, and state lawyers working in these state attorneys, what will cost. Therefore, abolishing courts and abolishing state attorneys means a permanent cost for the state budget, travel expenses, and travel expenses for citizens, whether they are suspects, whether the defendants, after the defendants, or witnesses. Often these smaller places are not well connected to these other places, this is not at all considered. So the institutions that have been established since 2001, and before the law were established, so we have one absurd 90-year pen move, have been established by many courts that shouldn't have been established and the state's attorneys have never worked. Now that they've come to life, when they're working, they need to be abolished. That's one absurd. It is an absurdity which therefore belongs to the absurdity that exists in Croatia to work and not get paid, or do not work and get paid. These state attorneys have achieved absolute urgency and now that something is good, they have achieved years since they started working, since they have been provided with all possible working conditions, and these conditions have not been easy to provide, the best example for you is the huge building in Zlatar, which began as a great knowledge to be built in the 1990s. And we had nowhere else to go, but to bring this building to an end and bring it to a point. That was a huge megalomaniac procedure. And now we end both the court and the state's attorney's office in Zlatar. It's the same in Gospić. If Zagreb had such conditions, the state lawyers and judges in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, where the files on the halls had such conditions, such as the building in Gospić and Zlatar. So the state spent huge, huge funds in the '90s and now needs to abolish the state's attorney's office in Gospić, Zlatar, Koprivnica, Virovitica, Čakovec. So where's the logic? You say it will be joined by the court, i.e. the State Attorney's Office in Bjelovar, Karlovac, Slavonski Brod and Varazdin. There's an emergency in those places. Absolute update has not yet been reached. So what happens when you attach items from Koprivnica and Virovitica to Bjelovar, from Gospić to Karlovac, from Požega to Slavonski Brod, from Čakovec and Zlatar to Varazdin? You will multiply the problems, and what was good will become numb and will become numb. That's not a good way. In addition, we must not and must not interfere with the idea that judicial institutions have their primary and sole task, so that they serve, or their task is to exercise judicial authority, that those in a broader and historical and cultural and sociological perspective also have a different meaning. They therefore mark the historical existence of these institutions and those environments. The needs of citizens should therefore be put first. It means cheaper for them life. This is also a blow to both citizens and their pockets. That's huge costs. It also prevents them from working regularly. Going to another place that is not good traffic often and connected means all day long to those people who have to appear in front of that judicial body. For these reasons, therefore, the SDP club will not support this proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers but rather protest that something that was open is being closed, which was revived, in which the state has given huge resources, where people who have shown absolute urgency in their work work work work work work work work are working. It is then also one message to people and institutions and to strengthen institutions, so we are abolishing institutions that have done a great job. That's a bad message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61678	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61679	Mr. Vice President, I will correct an incorrect quote by my colleague Antičević where she claimed that this merger of state attorneys would multiple problems and that it would be a pity for the citizens. Namely, to meet most of these state's attorneys is only on paper because they never revived and never work as they did in Virovitica, which only on paper exists County State's Attorney's Office, has never revived, but all of this is done by the County State's Attorney's Office in Bjelovar. So there is no harm and no possibility of multiplying the problem, but just erase what was administratively established and never revived.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61680	The injury of Businessmen, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61681	A colleague injures the provision of Article 209 of our Rules of Procedure and speaks very wrongly. It corrects me something that's true, which is verifiable. There are files, there are data, and a colleague like he fell from Mars.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61682	Please, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear MPs, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and second, don't sharpen it again, it fell from Mars. He didn't fall from Mars, he came from home. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Before you object to certain statements. You're now starting to sharpen the debate here again. Djakic, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61683	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 209 as well as Article 214 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague took your right to comment on whether I was correcting... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61684	Thank you. Leave the Martians alone, don't bring the Martians to the Parliament yet. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61685	Thank you very much. A colleague of Anticevic said several times and said that we were canceling something, so it's one of the corrections. We don't take out our colleagues very well you know how to connect. And my colleague Djakic gave you a partial answer. And the other false assumption is that this is a merger strike on the citizens and on their pockets. Well, that's simply not true because colleagues Marinovic-Anticevic because in most cases it's just about those people and those citizens who hit the pocket of the state. The ones that have to come to the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61686	Thank you, thank you very much. We're moving on with an individual discussion. ... No benching, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Clubs, sorry. It is next to the HDZ club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course, I'll point out in the introduction that the HDZ Representatives Club supports this bill. It is therefore a proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. However, whenever we discuss the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Office, their work, their structure, I think it is necessary and that, first of all, they should be highlighted in fact their constitutional position, i.e. the basis of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the State's attorney is an independent and independent judicial body that is authorised and obliged to act in the next three Constitution of the prescribed situation. So, first against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal acts. Secondly, to take legal action to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the rights. And the establishment, establishment, deliriousness and jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office is governed by law. That law is right here in front of us today. In this respect, the proposed law follows the logic of the rationalisation of the county seats, i.e. the headquarters of the County and Commercial Courts, and all in the sense of the newly proposed network with 15 county and 7 commercial courts. It was mentioned here in previous discussions that the proposed law was made without any criteria. However, this is not the case, because the reasons for the proposed law literally follows that the area and headquarters of the State's attorneys are established on the basis of uniform criteria. I repeat the uniform criteria and without these uniform criteria we could absolutely not discuss or discuss any rationalisation or rational criteria. So what are the criteria? I think it's necessary to list them all or mention them. First, it's an analysis of the number of cases, secondly it's an annual inflow of cases, and of course it's also the number of state attorneys and the number of deputy state attorneys. And on the basis of these very criteria, the criteria have also established the headquarters of the county's state's attorney's offices. When we are discussing concrete legal provisions, I think it is necessary to highlight or single out the provision of Article 6 which stipulates that the Ministry of Justice will provide for county state attorneys not only work space, so not only the space where they will carry out their work, but also technically equip them at their headquarters, which was created by mergers, therefore not by abolition, by merger and by 31 December 2019 at the latest. As regards this legislative provision, I think it is important to highlight the provision of Article 7 of the proposed law, which prescribes that the minister of justice will, after a preliminary opinion by the attorney general, determine the establishment of permanent services outside the county's district attorney's office. Therefore, there is, in this sense, a legal possibility that wherever there is a need and in terms of the application of a concrete law, the very activity of the state's attorneys in this way as prescribed in Article 7 may continue to take place. And in conclusion, this really represents rationalization. It's not about abolishing the state's attorney's office. It's about bringing the state's attorney's office together. In order for it to be properly implemented, it is necessary to pre-defined certain criteria as unique criteria of what is said for all, but not just that. This bill in every sense, and in terms of the functioning of the judicial institutions should be brought into line with all those institutes already adopted or discussed when we discussed areas and seats of both county and municipal courts. And all those solutions that would be past, against or outside those I say, the legal proposals would actually not be logical and this regulation that must follow that logic is followed, and all those situations that we have heard about here on behalf of the SDP Club would in fact not be logical, and let's, of course, say this 'can be corrected' or some irregularities or things in terms of the inability of the functioning of the state's attorney's office there is a legal basis, these are Articles 6 and 7 when, on the basis of the proposal of the Minister of State's Attorney General's Office, they can also establish permanent services in terms of the functioning and operation of the state's attorneys. It's final. It's not about the abolition, it's about the merger of judicial institutions, so the state's attorney's office. It is based on this draft law on objectively established criteria. I'm the one who got them all. And what I think is very important to mention, this law, in terms of the functioning of the entire judicial system, must necessarily follow the logic of the laws already passed, and I have already adopted them. Because if they were with some other legal solutions, they would actually deviate from the system and actually the system in its entirety in its full could not function. In line with all the above, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this bill, noting that this law is in the first reading, so there is the possibility that, until the second reading, especially the things we have warned about, and this is also about nomotechnical harmonisation and in compliance with these other regulations, so they can still be completed. And in that sense legal text improves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61688	Thank you. HNS representative club, HSU's Mrs. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. The legislator says that an analysis of the number of cases, the annual inflow of cases, the number of state lawyers and deputy state attorneys, in the county’s state’s attorneys’ offices, and the areas and seats of the county’s state’s attorneys’ offices in accordance with the district’s courts’ offices as well as the areas and seats of municipal state’s attorneys’ offices has been drawn up in the preparation of this bill. For us at HNS and HSU, it would be good for me to say and necessarily, that the analysis of which was presented to us also to the parliamentary representatives. That didn't happen. So according to this proposal, 15 county state attorneys and 55 municipal state lawyers are being established. From the example in my Krapina-Zagorje County, it is obviously very bright when it was already used in the previous debate it is obvious that it is not a rationalisation, and even less about wanting to save something. According to the proposal of this law, the County State Attorney's Office in Varazdin joins the County State in Čakovec and Zlatar. The bill further says that the rationalisation of the county state attorney's network will be implemented by 31 December 2019 and is planned to spend just over 42 million kuna. Everything we said in our first reading of the Law on County Courts' headquarters is also valid here for this law, but I will repeat some facts. First of all, I have to say that citizens are extremely dissatisfied, especially from those areas whose centers are attached, so that there is no correction of incorrect allegations, and in fact for users they are abolishing existing courts because because of the reorganisation they will have to travel and cross a lot more miles in a much longer time with much more spent their own money. When it comes to us Zagorjes, here is to be very visible in this example, Varazdin is over 150 kilometers away, for example our Zagorje villages 152 kilometers away from the center of Varazdin. For that journey it is necessary to transport if personal transport is used to spend more than three hours in one direction or two hours, and if it is going by public transport then it is almost necessary to spend the whole day. Costs go up to a few hundred kunas, so it's not negligible. And Zagreb is like the center of "more and more" because of traffic congestion. It was already about that, but I will repeat, in the building and equipment of the gold court over 70 million kunas of taxpayers were recently invested. Wasn't there really a way to use the invested in a way to keep the seat in Zlatar and to be attached to the court in Zapresic, which works together with Zlatar one geographical unit, primarily when viewing the traffic connection. Under the proposal of this law, and even earlier laws that treat the judiciary, we do not have a valid and transparent analysis that will first say how much savings are expected by this rationalization. There's no such analysis anywhere. Second and no less important, how many people will lose their jobs and how they will be taken care of. I hope and believe that judges and lawyers will not lose their jobs, but in these institutions not only are judges and lawyers, and institutions have staff in the administration, staff in the maintenance of the plant. What about the director's staff, will the new seats need three janitors and all those people who work in maintenance? I don't think so. So we don't have an analysis of what's going to happen to any extra people who are going to lose their jobs that way. So, according to the already adopted two laws of municipal and criminal courts in the proposal of this fourth law, because the third one is expected in the second reading, the government is passing the savings on to a large number, I would say over 1 million citizens, potential court users, first of all I mean witnesses. This was also a replica of something that did not stand because it is primarily about witnesses who, in such a way, enter into an unequal position with those whose courts' seats have not changed, or which courts’ seats they have in their cities or municipalities. For these reasons, we from the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61690	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61691	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I think this is the last thing to say is the reorganisation or rationalisation of court cases in the Republic of Croatia that came to the benches of the Croatian Parliament in front of MPs. I've discussed the so-called so-called. a little bit of irrational rationalization, and in terms of so-called Dislocation of cases, court cases and cases which are only for example when it comes to municipal courts and county courts where it is, for example, The municipal court in Pakrac is attached or connected, according to Mr Tomljanovic, the Municipality court in Daruvar, and further jurisdiction is the County Court in Bjelovar. In this so-called. The rationalisation of state attorneys in the Republic of Croatia and in which, as well as in the county, it is related to the rationalisation of county and commercial courts where 15 county courts and 7 commercial courts are established, it is said that there will also be 15 county attorneys. In any case, since it is the jurisdiction in which the county borders are deleted then it is not actually the county state's attorney's office anymore, then it is the two-counter state's attorney's office in some cases, and in some it remains only the county state's attorney's office in the county, which covers the administrative and administrative structure of the Republic of Croatia. For example. County State Attorney's Office in Split for Split-Dalmatia County, Sisak for Sisak-Moslavina County, Osijek for Osijek-Baranja County. But here are the cases where one court covers three counties and one state's attorney's office, which is the County State's Attorney's Office in Bjelovar. Namely, the County State Attorney's Office in Bjelovar is responsible for the Koprivnica-Krisjevac County and the Virovitičko-Podravna County and for the clear Bjelovar-Bjelovar County. The three counties are covered by the work of the County State's Attorney's Office in Bjelovar. So now gentlemen from the government or from the ministry, I ask you how far it is and do you know how far away it is from one Sopia or from the easternmost parts of the Orahovica municipality to which it belongs, for example, Nova Bukovica? Exactly how many miles to the County State's Attorney's Office in Bjelovar? It's close to 80 miles, straight. It's about a hundred miles away. Here's Mr. Djakic, he knows better, now it's about his county, not to say literally. When we look at the schedule or the network of county attorneys, then we see that here in our region is Slavonia and Baranja the remaining three county attorneys. One is in Osijek for Osijek-Baranja County and courts in, therefore, the state's attorneys in the County of Osijek-Baranja. The second is the County State's Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod, which is attached to the County State's Attorney's Office of Požega. And the third is in Vukovar with clear Vinkovci and Mayor. So when we say the number of 15, then we're some kind of 3 county state's attorney's office still there and kind of when we're looking at percentages that versus 15 is exactly 20%, which is kind of satisfactory. But I must point out here and the problem, although I am personally from Slavonski Brod that the County Court of Požega is also attached to the County Court of Slavonski Brod, that the Pakrac Municipal Court, to say, flew away, sailed towards Daruvar even though it is Požeko-Slavon County, and later it is a secondary court in Bjelovar. So, for cases from Pacrac and Lipik and their surroundings. I must also point out that, in addition to those criteria stated by Mr Tomljanovic, the number of cases and the number of state lawyers is not always respected in this rationalisation of the network of courts. However, it must be said that one particular policy is agreed and interference and policies in the rationalisation of the network of courts, and the basic assumption is the availability of courts, hence the availability of courts to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, even if he is either the defendant or in the capacity of the defendant. And now that we are fighting and we are proving that we will act in accordance with Chapter 23 on the accession of the European Union, then so many affairs, corruption, are opening up. I'm not going to go in at all when you look at it from the parties' colors of corruption, crime and everything else here's the thing, and obviously there's going to be more and more then we have this rationalization with one example that I've cited, for example, that Nova Bukovica, so Orahovica, Slatini end or some kind of Sopje, Duzluk etc. a distance of up to 130 km from the competent County State Attorney's Office in Bjelovar. So it's interesting that it went very well in the distribution and trade courts of Bjelovar, Mrs Adlesic, if so. So, the Trade Court in Bjelovar has remained, in Slavonski Brod it was abolished, although these criteria were spoken of by Mr. Tomljanovic and are not exactly such that they should have been abolished. Of these 7 commercial courts, only one is in the five Slavonian-Baranja County area. So, only the one in Osijek. I say in this case we've been better off, although when I started talking about Požega, then I have to go on, that since the Turkish times in Požega it's been to say cadiya, that in Požega there was the seat of the Sanjaks, and then in Austro-Hungarian one very, very well known to say the court seat and tradition, one tradition of the judiciary in the city of Požega. Now Požega has lost her property and in, I speak also in the case of the county court, and here is the case of the county state's attorney's office. Furthermore, this court before it was so attached to Slavonski Brod was in charge of both Pakrac and Lipi, and they are to be associated with Daruvar, or Bjelovar. So, it must be pointed out and said because it is indeed an example where, when we talk about rationalising the network of courts and state attorneys, I asked about half a year or a year ago how many Croatian state and citizens, taxpayers single out funds for the management of dislocated court cases and court cases in other cities. I received an answer written that these are multimillion-dollar amounts which, therefore, the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice, therefore singles out for example the conduct of a court case let's say from Slavonski Brod in Djakov or Požega who were less burdened than the court in Slavonski Brod. But at the same time, many or some cases from the Municipal Court in Zagreb ended up at the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod. So, one won't be using ugly formulas again that crazy, confused, normal. So, the overloaded court in Slavonski Brod sends or dislocates the case to Đakovo or Požeg, and the municipal court in Zagreb sends him cases in Slavonski Brod for overloading the court in Zagreb. So, the criteria that Mr Tomljanovic spoke of at the time, so the number of cases, the number of state lawyers in certain district attorney offices, but these same criteria also applied in the case of commercial courts, municipal and county courts. Obviously and the availability of the court to parties and lawyers and to all those involved in the work of courts and their actions are not in the correlation. Therefore, these criteria and the fact that they are also sought in the European Union Directives are therefore not in the proper or complete correlation of the availability of courts. So they're incomplete when it comes to seats and county courts, municipal courts, commercial courts, and here's the county state's attorney's office. Troupian or as is the case in Slavonski Brod and Požega two-counter state attorney's office for the County of Požeko-Slavonska and Brod-Posavina. And in the case of Bjelovar for three counties, so Koprivnica-križevska, Virovička-podravska and Bjelovarsko-Biogorska. So I have to point out, I have to say here, so who's angry, and who's not in this division or rationalising the network of courts, I'd say a little bit and irrational, and then the state's attorneys profited certain to say cities, or areas that are certain political agreements between parties or persons who are in the government and in the ruling coalition, so some of them are, not respecting what Mr. Tomljanovic claims, which is the number of cases and so the number of state lawyers in certain seats. Here's another example, so on a 150km move, I'm talking about the Split-Sibenik-Zadar move, so as far as I know, that's 150 kilometers, there are three state's attorneys, right? So in Sibenik, in Split and Zadar. Here is another example in which this case is as it is, and this one is indeed one example where Bjelovar is up to 130 kilometers from certain areas in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County. So when we look at this 20% average and three state attorneys in the Slavonia and Baranja area, we could be satisfied in some way, but I have to say that we are also saddened by the fact that such a court seat, I can say court seat in all segments such as Požega has lost significantly, and there is tradition, there is also quality in the judiciary, and even in the matter of the work of the state attorney's office. We know there's a prison in Pozega, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61692	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61693	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'll correct the inaccuracies of colleagues where he claimed that mileage from Orahovica or... or Nova Bukovica to Bjelovar will have a significant impact on the work of the state's attorney's office in Bjelovar, on the accessibility of citizens, etc. [[You don't understand.]] Namely, the Belarusian State Attorney's Office has yet to observe the territory of the County of Viritarian-Podravska, and there have been no problems. If they knew, and you don't know, the truth of the will has never brought back the state's attorney's office in Virovitica, to the county of the Virovitica, to the area of the county of Virovitica, and the whole time the jurisdiction was in Bjelovar. This fictionally on paper means that you speak constantly without arguments, and I have been obliged to correct your incorrect allegations, since you have no idea that in Virovitica the county's state's attorney's office has never lived, but the jurisdiction has been in Bjelovar all along and will remain so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61694	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61695	Mr. Vice President, you should make this correction to an incorrect quote actually correct, not me, because it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, this is a replica. And therefore, according to Article 209, you only confirmed to Mr Djakic what I said in the debate, nothing else. That stays the same distance, right? You could have gone to Osijek, not Bjelovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61696	Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61697	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to remind myself that the legislative changes of the Croatian Parliament carried out the rationalisation of the network of municipal and criminal courts, that the rationalisation of county and commercial courts is under way, and that the reform of the administrative trial is under way. All these activities because judicial reform procedures are a condition for adapting our legislation and achieving the objective of entering the European Union. In order to align the network of county courts in the Republic of Croatia with the network of state attorneys, this legislative proposal establishes the county and municipal state attorney's offices, and determines their areas of action and headquarters, in such a way that instead of the current 21 county state's attorney's office and 55 municipal state attorney's offices, 15 county attorneys and 55 municipal state lawyers are proposed. As many rationalisation procedures fall within the unpopular measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in certain areas cause reactions, I find it important to point out that the proposal for this law was based on an analysis of the number of cases and the annual inflow of cases, an analysis of the number of state lawyers and deputy state lawyers. The rationalisation of state lawyers proposed by this law is necessary for the rationalisation of the network of courts, in particular county courts, and a logical proposal is that the rationalisation of the network of state attorneys will be implemented by 31 December 2019, which is also a deadline for the rationalisation of the network of courts, and according to the decision on the dynamics of merger of state lawyers, ensuring the necessary working conditions, technical equipment, and ensuring spatial conditions. In view of the above, I am of the opinion that the proposed law should be supported, as well as all those quality remarks and proposals made in the debate, and in order to implement reform of the judicial system and in the context of the same rationalisation of the network of courts and state attorneys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61698	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61699	Well, here you should answer the question, and that's what you do in your discussion when you speak and what your predecessors said, so they don't stop, but they join. We've never received an answer here, and I think that would be very important, whether these state's attorneys are being abolished, whether they're putting the key in the lock or just changing the board. It is known that all of these state's attorneys have begun their work, they have created material personnel and all the other conditions to start working, to unload larger centres. Is it because during the SDP coalition this state's attorney's office was founded, and only because there is no other reason, because there are only higher costs for participants, and for those who work at the State's Attorney's Office, and that is precisely because during the SDP coalition these state attorneys are now to be abolished. And as the founders have already been announced, we heard yesterday, the day before yesterday, that the founders should also be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61700	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61701	Dear colleagues, you've been working all along with the term of termination, termination. First of all, it's not an termination. It's a merger. Secondly, it is not proposed by these laws that, from 1 January 2011, any work of the attorney's office will cease, as a rule, until 31 December 2019. And what is very important, practically this proposal of the Law on Areas and Courts, is closely related to the rationalization of the network of courts. I also stressed especially with a network of county courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61702	Mr. Representative Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to start all of this somehow differently in my debate. I think that these past months we have passed a series of laws under the jurisdiction of the judiciary which are primarily aimed at making our judiciary more effective, more rational. We hold the resolution of the remaining cases we have seen for years that there is a major problem in the burden of the Croatian judiciary and that everything we have done would be in vain if we came to the Croatian Parliament today and suggested that there is a law on the seat of the courts and today, when it comes to the State's Attorney's Office, that we cancel something, and with such decisions we slow down the Croatian judiciary and question the general functioning of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. I think the intention of this bill as well as the proposal of the Law on Courts is exactly the opposite. Today we are on track for the conclusion of the negotiations of Chapter 23, today we lack a large number of professional and educated personnel who will always, in general, be able to understand EU policy and all that the EU will require of us as one legal, modern state, new future EU member states. I don't think anyone in this country would have thought of making decisions that would just slow down the judiciary and put our system at risk when it comes to the most important area, which is the protection of the law, the protection of rights, and in the extreme line and the protection of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This isn't about abolishing, it's not about rationalizing that we're taking the board off the building so that the building becomes something other than objects, efficiency when it comes to decisions made in cases. When you consider rationalization, no one in this case will lose their job. However, people will keep their jobs only have different work obligations and different powers so far. It was precisely that old system that existed so far in the Republic of Croatia that was ineffective and a large number of cases, it is not normal for the courts to be 100% of the efficiency of the courts because they have 20% of the burden of judges, and in the other area we have 30% of the effectiveness because the judges simply don't get to do their job. In this case, the president of the court will no longer be president of the court, but he will continue to be judge. It will continue to work on cases, will continue to make judgments in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. No court employee will lose his job, however, we saw in the State's Attorney's report last year, and I think it is also this year that the State's Attorney's Office lacks personnel and that we will need to hire at least 70 more people in the State's Attorney's Office to put a stop to the challenges and times and objects that appear in them. Here, we were somewhere before, and Mrs. Anticevic and I, at the State Attorney's Council, had the opportunity to get to know four young people who speak several foreign languages, who have passed some experience in education when it comes to the judiciary, who unfortunately do not have a job. And in the same case, one of the items in Vukovar, the gentleman is 62, 63 years old, and he himself is unable to bear the burden of what is being placed on him, which is efficiency in the work of an investigation in one case at the State's Attorney's Office. We've listened to these three young people, escorted them home because there's just no job for them at that point. Our tasks should be, both the judiciary and the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, an opportunity to give these young people who have learned something, not only in Croatia, but beyond our borders. Because once we join the EU, it will no longer be just the yard of the Republic of Croatia, but it will be the courtyard of the entire EU. If we make this step that people who have been educated in this country have learned what it means to protect rights and justice, who speak foreign languages, who should be the pride of the Republic of Croatia today, and who do not get to do their jobs in cases because courts are different and the state's attorneys are burdened differently. I said, it's not normal to praise someone because they're 100% effective, and they have 20 objects, and someone's bad because they have triple, five times as much. It is precisely these laws that aim not to remove something but to attach something, to join, to specialize and to be not only a matter of buildings but also an issue of efficiency, a question of objects and a question of what is asked of us, which is perfection when it comes to protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. And today's first point at the hearing of the Judicial Academy, it is precisely the aim of the Judicial Academy to make perfection when it comes to the education of young people and to give opportunity to those people and those young people who need to live for this country, and also if they have chosen their own specialization in this area, their educational age to be a judiciary, so let us give them the opportunity to show what they have learned in the protection of the interests of law and justice in the Republic of Croatia. As with these courts, so do the state's attorneys. We don't stop anything these days. We want to make the State Attorney's Office more effective, we want to give opportunity to those who have a job to dissipate, to be fairer in their work, and to those who have had less obligation to show in their work that they can contribute to those who work more. And all together it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest of our citizens, and all those who have given us opportunities in the Parliament, and we as representatives have given the State's Attorney's office to work in the interest of the Republic of Croatia above all. We have seen the problems of human beings, we have also seen that we have potential in people who are being educated, we have given an opportunity through the Judicial Academy, we have given an opportunity through the State School for Judicial Officials, and this is another important and major step forward for both state attorneys and courts in the Republic of Croatia to make a big step towards our country's path to the EU, and the judiciary is one of the key foundations. That's why I fully support this bill, and I'm also supporting all those young people at home who are waiting today and all those young girls we've been listening to there and all their resumes we've read, it's sad to sit at home. Let us give them the opportunity to contribute, in the interest of our countries, to the development of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61704	Thank you very much. Ms. Secretary of State Tatjana Vučetic will finalise, speak briefly. I hope so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61705	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what I want to thank all the esteemed MPs and MPs and those who criticized the law and those who commended him. As for first reading, there is certainly still time and opportunity for all remarks and quality proposals to be considered in the new text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61706	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move to the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. That was the first reading, P.Z. No. 622. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers is hereby adopted. Second. Any objections to the proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. 626 is the number of laws. Therefore, repairs in that sense. The result? The bill was adopted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, no abstentions and 32 against. This proposal concludes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61709	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 51st session held on 29 October, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to resolve the Vice-President of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Željana Podrug and the proposal to elect Sunčana Glavak as Vice-President of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61710	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Or we could vote by raising our hands. Who's gonna raise a hand for this committee proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. It's unanimous with 116 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61711	It is proposed that a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy be dismissed and Vesna Buterin be elected as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61712	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? There isn't. It's unanimous with 116 votes. Let's move on. It is proposed that a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports be dismissed Sunčana Glavak and that Ivan Bagarić be elected as a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Who would please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? A unanimous with 116 votes has accepted this proposal. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61714	It is proposed that a member of the Committee on Gender Equality be resolved by Željana Podrug and Đurđica Sumrak be elected as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61715	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for this proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. A unanimous with 116 votes has accepted this proposal. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61716	The proposal is for the Committee to discharge, in the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, the member of the Zeljana Podrug, the member of the Deputy Member Carmela Caparin and to be appointed to the post of member Carmela Caparin and member Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61717	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. It's unanimous with 116 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61718	The Committee's proposal is to relieve the deputy member of the Croatian Assembly Assembly in the Assembly of the Western European Union of Zeljana Podruga and to appoint Đurđica Sumrak as the deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Assembly of the Western European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61719	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The committee's proposal was adopted unanimously with 116 votes and we move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61720	The proposal is to dismiss a member of the National Committee, Ivan Cehok, and to elect Đurđa Adlešić as a member of the National Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61721	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for this proposal please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you very much, Madam President. Restraint? It's unanimous with 116 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, as I announced on Wednesday, at 9.30 p.m., we continue the session with the agenda item Final proposal for a law amending the Act on Conduct and Construction Conditions to boost investment. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 629. Have a nice vacation and I'll see you Wednesday. Thank you very much. We move on to the proposals of the Committee on Designation, Selection and Administrative Affairs, so I ask Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic to suggest what she has.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61723	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 52nd session held on 25 November 2010 unanimously established a proposal for a decision to appoint Neven Mimica and Frano Matušić to the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61724	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's be clear about the committee's proposal. Turn yourself in and vote. The result? This proposal by the Election and Appointing Committee was accepted by the majority 93 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61725	The same session set out a proposal for a decision to dismiss members of the National Committee of Ana Knezevic and to appoint Diana Shobot as a member of the National Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61726	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please engage and let's vote. Thank you. The result? This proposal was adopted unanimously by 88 votes. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, the continuation of the session on Wednesday 1st December at 9.30pm with the agenda, the Annual Report on FINA's 2009 business. I wish everyone a good weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61727	Choices of appointments and resolutions. The chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, Ms. Nevenko Majdenic. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61728	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 53rd session held on 9 December unanimously established the proposal for a Decision: a member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament Antun Kvorusec and a member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament are hereby elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61729	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. Score. With 89 votes for, 2 abstentions, 3 against the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61730	At the same session, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs set out the proposal: a member of the Committee on Local, and the regional self-government of the Croatian Parliament, Antun Korusec, and a member of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament are elected Đurđa Adlešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61731	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's get on with the vote. Score. With 93 votes in favour, one abstention of the proposed decision. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61732	At the same session of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision: First, the duties of Chief State Auditor Šima Krasic are resolved due to the end of the term of office. And secondly, the main state auditor is called Ivan Klešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61733	I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The SDP representative club opposes this proposal for principle reasons. Let me explain, the State Review is one of the pillars of society, if you lose confidence in the State Audit then it doesn't make any sense. We have one expense and we don't trust the citizens that this State Audit is working independently, that it works impartially and that it works in quality. We were in the last part of Mrs. Šime Krasic's term of office, unfortunately we were able to convince ourselves what happens when trust is lost. Ms. Šima Krasic sent the short minutes of her full report to the Assembly's investigation committee and thus put the representatives in... They didn't have the complete information they were supposed to have from such an important institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This has given rise to confidence in this institution and in the person of the main state auditor. For which I note that before that she had the trust of all members of Parliament. She has been elected unanimously on re-determined duty. It is now proposed to appoint a party person here. The State Auditor must also revise the business of political parties. By the logic of things, it should be a non-partisan person. In the case of this proposal, that's not the case. If the HDZ Representatives' Club had proposed a non-partisan figure of reputation that we can trust, we might not have objected to this choice. However, we are in a situation where, in the agenda of this session, there is also a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Audit. And we believe that this is a great opportunity to introduce another amendment in the amendments to the law that have already been proposed, and that is how the main state auditor is elected. After this case, if the club of representatives proposes one of its members, we would like to insist, when amending that law, that the main state auditor is elected by public tender, a public tender, and to introduce a possible restriction that candidates cannot be party members. We consider this necessary in order to restore confidence in this important social institution. We think it would be wise not to declare this today, to stop this procedure, to discuss it first, and we can do so on Monday when we are supposed to continue this session, to discuss this proposal of the State Audit Act, to bring about this necessary amendment, so that when the auditor Šima Krasic has been performing this duty for 8 months after the end of the term to wait for the next few days until Wednesday, until we discuss this law, we do not issue a public call or open a public tender for the selection of the main state auditor. So that would be reasonable. If you decide not to accept this appeal that would restore the trust of society in the institutions of the system, and we are all witnessing that this trust is unfortunately collapsing in all segments, you will choose your majority of your party man, and the public will need to trust that when he audits the business of the HDZ, at the exact time when the bags of illegal money are mentioned, that his findings will be correct and that anyone will trust him. We find that dangerous. You know the situation isn't like that, if we were living in a quiet time without a bag of party money, maybe we wouldn't object to this. But I think it's a matter of common sense and responsibility for us as representatives of citizens of elected citizens, to try to restore that trust at least where we can. In this case, we can. It's up to you, it's your responsibility to accept this reasonable appeal or continue as you've been going so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61735	A colleague Grubisic should not only raise his hand, but also sign up. Just raise your hand and now that's it. Not Mr. Representative Stazic signed up neatly with a written application card. Okay. HDSSB club Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61736	Here's my apology. Let's say misrepresentation. But I won't be long though it's workday and we're working gentlemen. Don't be mad about it. The HDSSB Club therefore notes both the content of the observations and the procedural remarks. Let's start with this second one, and that's a procedural remark. The committee and representatives of the committee of presidents brought here to resolve the duties of Chief State Auditor Šima Krasic. The procedural mandate of the chief state auditor expired by law seven months ago. How can someone whose term of office has expired who is no longer a state auditor by law enforcement? The other thing is what my colleague Stazic was saying. The role of the state audit was precisely a different approach, giving greater importance, so the role or more active role could be achieved at a time when we swear to fight corruption, crime, etc., and the state audit was just a report, not to say a dead letter on paper that meant nothing to anyone. It should also be amended to strengthen the role of the state audit precisely in the fight against corruption and crime, both the position and the opposition. And as far as I'm saying it again, it's interesting how someone who's not at all and who has been suspended by law by the office of the state's chief auditor seven, eight months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61737	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that, with 71 votes for, one abstention and 27 against a decision taken that, due to the end of the term of office, Chief State Auditor Šima Krasic is relieved of his duties and is named Ivan Klesic as chief state auditor. Thank you very much. The president of the parliament scheduled a session, the continuation of the December 13th session at 10pm, with the beginning of the agenda with a debate on the 2011-2015 proposal for a judicial reform strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61738	I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Appointment of Ms. Nevenka Majdenić to explain her proposals to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61739	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 54th session held on 15 December 2010 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament Krešimir Ćosic is dismissed, and Josip Salapic is elected as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61740	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a proposal for a vote, please, and let us vote on the proposal for a decision. The result? This proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament was adopted by the majority of votes, 106 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61741	The same session set out a proposal to resolve a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security Krešimir Ćosic, and the proposal is to elect Krunoslav Markovovic as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61742	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Let's please get involved in the committee's proposal. The result? This proposal is unanimous with 98 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61743	The same session set out a proposal to resolve the head of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly Krešimir Ćosic and as head of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Marija Pejcinović-Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61744	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by most votes, 97 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61745	The next proposal is to dismiss a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union Krešimir Ćosic and to appoint Dubravka Šuica as a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-29-0.u61746	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. The result? This proposal for a decision was adopted unanimously by 97 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I wish everyone a happy and happy Christmas on the Gregorian and July calendar and happy and successful for all of New 2011. I want us to meet relaxed and restored energy in the next year when the Parliament's spring session begins, and it will begin in the second half of January. So, everyone's a good vacation and all the things you want for yourself. I wish you all an individual wish. Thank you very much and good luck. We continue with the session and agenda point - Final proposal for a law amending the Act of Conduct and construction conditions to encourage investment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 629 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
