ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56334	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. As you said in the introduction, this is a second reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of conflict of interest in the conduct of public duties. The government had announced that in its anti-corruption programme as one of the measures would also be the preparation of those laws that regulated membership in the supervisory boards of companies in which officials were often members of the duties being the basis of this or some specific law, since the announcement was that we would organise regulations that would make it impossible for all those officials who were members of the trading committees to act in a political capacity and that analogy could also be a member of the Supervisory Board, and we proposed that we would, by way of force of this law, turn out to be based on two laws, that all those officials who were members of the supervisory boards of companies would no longer be able to do so, by way of the law. After the first reading of the law, we received some suggestions in the discussion for the second reading, one of the major measures or more interventions was the Commission's proposals to decide on a conflict of interest, so we introduced their suggestions into this final bill, I would say what may be the difference between the solutions so far. The bill abolishes the possibility of a member of the supervisory, or management boards of companies, and proposes that members of the supervisory boards of companies in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority stake or majority share appoint a congregation of companies, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, following a public tender. So it would no longer be possible without a public tender to come to those positions. The law also provides for the Government to adopt a regulation to regulate the criteria and way of implementing a public tender, we thought that this was a more correct solution than to introduce this decision into this law, because this law is not, in its essence, the law in which the conditions of competition should be prescribed. The addendum to the text so far is that this law applies to members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure, since they are doing exactly a job that should prevent any form of convenience from being granted to others. We thought this law should be extended to members of the state commission. What is the difference and what was one of the proposals in the criteria for Chapter 23 is that this commission, which has been required so far, to verify the property situation of the officials before the entry into force and after the entry into service, may carry out a verification of the data from the property cards of the officials, and that this can also be done during the duration of their term of office, not only after the execution of that duty. One of the proposals was also that these members of the supervisory committees, which will be employed in the future on the basis of a public tender, regulate their status in such a way as to make their mandate available to all officials, so that for all officials we have established the same criteria, therefore, in the event of a change of government, all of them, whether they were members in another way or were elected through a public tender, make their mandate available to the owner, i.e. the Government. We have entered here and some I would say the conditions under which you can, or cannot receive compensation for the conduct of another public duty. It has not been implemented at the level of local self-government, because our obligation has been and we have made such a commitment that this law will apply primarily to the state level and to officials at the state level, and not to all those officials in the local self-government. I will also say that because there have already been questions on boards, one of the provisions that has been discussed, was a provision under which a company in which the official has 20% or more shares or shares cannot enter into a business relationship with the public authority in which he behaves. I must point out that this is a provision which has been transposed from other regulations, i.e. the Public Procurement Act, in particular, which is why this percentage is also retained in the proposal for this law. If it turns out that in some companies, and this was the debate, it may be too high this 20% percentage, I believe that we can still regulate this relationship in the parliamentary procedure. Finally, the bill also extends a range of sanctions that the commission can impose. The Commission may, as a sanction, also make a proposal for a discharge from public duty. It's a yen of sanctions that hasn't been known so far in this law. We think that this measure is good and that this measure can further strengthen the commitment that only professionals do these jobs without the influence of politics in their way of doing jobs. The proposal also provides for the possibility to impose a sanction on a person who does not submit a report on the property at the beginning of the term of office, as the applicable law provides for the possibility to impose sanctions on an official who does not submit a report on the property at the end of the term of office, i.e. upon termination of his or her duties. This expansion complements the gap, and we think that we have fully covered the position so that, recently said, the transparent performance of their business with this additional obligation that officials appointed by the competition would have. I think these are the most important changes in relation to the text that was in the first reading and here, the Government proposes that we bring this law to the Croatian Parliament in any case. This law, I was also saying at first reading, is the basis if the special laws established somewhere by the officials to be members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies and to amend these laws and to be all in the same way, therefore chosen through a public tender of all these supervisory authorities of companies. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56335	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56336	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I would say that the SDP club will support the adoption of this law, but at the same time, on behalf of the club, we would like to warn some, to say, the accumulation of certain tasks and functions of a body that does not have the necessary tools. In fact, in democratic systems and democratic systems in general, they operate successfully if all the institutions of a democratic society, a democratic state act. If some of the institutions do not act, then we have a problem and in such a situation various bodies and various powers are accumulated. It seems to me that it is in the Croatian system, so the Committee on Conflict of Interest is given the function of the repressive body. If the policy is the activity of managing public goods and public interests in the interests of the social community in which the policy operates, then the essence is that the control of the public action of politicians is carried out by state and social institutions, but also by the citizens of that community. And conflict of interest is not always a crime, or most often is not a crime, so it is also set out in a special category and in a special body. Therefore, the commission should be the eyes and ears of the democratic Croatian public whether the politician performs his duties in the social interest, in the interest of everyone or in the interest of his own private, associated persons, or in the interest of private groups or lobbys. For such an assessment, it is necessary to have people who, I say, have a sense of justice and morality in politics, not people who are willing to express measures and sanctions. There are plenty of people in society, if they do their job, they don't need help in this respect. It's the courts, it's the police, it's the state administration. For all that the Commission needs to be established and to impose sanctions or to instruct others to impose sanctions, there are other bodies. Why do I say that? In Article 4, we're actually going in a row. Article 4 The final bill provides for a solution to policy or business. So it brings that bodies of public authority with which an official behaves his duty cannot deal with companies in which the official has more than 20% of the stakes. I think it's a good measure. I don't even think we should do business where an official has any stakes. It's either 1 or 5 or 20%. Simple, or business, business or politics in the public interest. Second, Article 5. The government came with a proposal as a big invention that in the supervisory boards of companies where the Croatian state has a majority package will be selected through competitions. Well, that doesn't make any sense at all. Namely, the owner decides who will represent him on the supervisory board, and the public's request is that when someone represents the state of the supervisory board that the work is done properly and that he responds to the work done and the government is responsible for the one she has appointed. So, we are now avoiding the right responsibility in the work of the supervisory boards of state-owned companies, and now by hiding it, we are saying that we will choose these members of the supervisory boards on behalf of the Croatian State in a public tender. We're not getting anything. The owner's responsibility for the work of the Supervisory Board remains. And the government's responsibility remains. The next thing I think is unnecessary for the commission, Article 7, the Commission is checking the data from the reports submitted by the property officer. This is, in a certain way, the introduction of the origin of the property. Neither is the commission qualified to do so, nor is the law offering this, nor does it have the personnel to do so, nor does it need to be accumulated in it. Today, there is a solution in the Croatian legal system for such a check to be carried out by the IRS, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. And we need to build that system where it's trained. The Ministry of Finance and the IRS to perform a function that has been given her for a long time. And in the end, and yet I am troubled whether we want the commission to be moral, the court of the public of Croatia or the repressive body? Article 9 provides that the Commission may impose sanctions, i.e. a proposal for discharge from public duty. We have two problems here. The commission is controlled by representatives or citizens, i.e. representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The commission can't propose a resolution of a parliamentary representative to anyone. There's no such thing as an institution. At the same time, the Committee for Other Officials, who is concerned about whether they are in conflict of interest, can ask for it, so it can ask for the Minister's discharge in the Croatian Parliament. We have two categories of officials and the same obligations. It's not logical or necessary. Namely, if the Commission finds that it is in conflict of interest, it informs the body that it is a member, a member of the conflict of interest, and I guess the Croatian public must draw from that a conclusion suggesting what it is. Therefore, this is about the final bill, so I think that the Government should as a proposal check whether it is in the interest of Croatian society and the development of democracy to build up bodies with repressive power or to develop responsibility based on the influence of Croatian citizens and the Croatian public. I think it would be a good idea to particularly check Article 4 whether companies in which an official has shares can deal with the body in which he works, this is particularly important, and we stress this and ask the promoter to address it with his amendment and not to be able to deal with a company in which the official has any share, while in the conduct of public duty, in the public interest, the interest of all the social community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56337	Thank you, we have one correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56338	I thank Mr. President, although I agree with the good part of my colleague Lek's debate, I have to correct it in one piece, he said that the government is avoiding responsibility by introducing public tenders for members of the Supervisory Board. The government does not avoid responsibility because, ultimately, you yourself said that regardless of the government is responsible for the situation in these societies, the government is actually looking for the best possible way for all those who have knowledge and who want to participate in this process to report to the competition, thus offering an opportunity for many people who have the knowledge to participate in the work of the supervisory boards, to report to the competition and to choose really those who will best behave. So it's not working in any way to avoid responsibility from the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56339	Thank you. It's up to Club IDS and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56340	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. The law defines who these officials are in Croatia, there are 40 categories of the President of the Republic, through the President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs, ministers, directors of state administrations, state secretaries, director of the Deputy Director of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, etc., that I am not reading all of this now. On the basis of the same Act, which prohibits officials, that Article 6 is to accept or demand the benefit or promise of benefit for the purpose of carrying out their duties, to exercise or obtain the right in the event of infringement of the principle of equality before the law, to abuse the specific rights of officials arising from or necessary for the performance of their duties, to influence the performance of jobs, etc. However, the essence of this Act is expressed on this page 2 of Article 4 and Article 4 of Article 4 respectively, that officials can no longer be members of the management boards or boards of directors, management boards, etc., the exceptional officials say in paragraph 7 may be members of up to two boards of directors of an institution, i.e. supervisory committees of extra-financial funds which are of particular national interest, unless the special law provides that the official of the Management Board of the Institute or of the Supervisory Board of the Extra-Government Fund in a position such as health, pension, etc., the Employment Fund and the like, Croatian Water, highway roads and then this Article 5, which states members of the Supervisory Board of Commercial Companies in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority of shares, or majority, proposes to the General Assembly of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the previous public tender. Now the question arises whether this law will help, whether it will help, in principle should not be against but should speak openly about these offered solutions. Here, one Subravka, as you all know, was supervised by experts and barely this Podravka was saved, out of agony. Whether these names should now be listed, those experts who led Podravka and were authorities I dare say of national importance. The Orahovica Tablet Factory was also supervised by experts, and I will not speak of their names, and in the end almost everything went to hell. I don't know how I can list it all the time, but often these people are out of the politics of barbaricism, more greedy, more irresponsible than politicians, although in Croatia, it's a valid rule that there's no greater mafia than the people who deal with politics. Often these experts represent their own interests, they are often untouchable, I think that by the basis of this Law many can become almost absolutely untouchable, and therefore, when going towards a public competition, one of the mandatory clauses should be to open up their property cards as well so that we can see how one of them is, when he was coming and how he acquired his property. Whoever suggested another example, a whole series of laws that this House clearly adopts, so often what we like to call them, experts, whose reviews go through, through the government and so on, often or mostly experts, and this is now this Law that is before us, an act, that politics in some way is devoid of me would say a certain influence. Okay, I don't mind, but you know this law can or this law can all be and vice versa, that its influence over these people politics further strengthens. I'm afraid it could be before this second than the first, because whoever saw someone in power himself, so to speak, has disproved himself. Is such a law a pattern of behavior in some other countries, it's the same thing you should see. I don't have absolutely, once again, nothing against these proposed solutions, I'm not on any supervisory committee, but I'm afraid it could be worse than it's almost better. If the people in politics are irresponsible or the horror of those outside politics, which is put up by politics, I'm afraid they're absolutely irresponsible. If the people in politics are responsible for this economic reality, and we are in the plural, all to a greater or smaller extent, the big systems, too, should be fair and emphasized, led in general by experts and the horror of it failed. For Croatian shipbuilding, I argue, direct policy is not responsible. Politics is responsible for vacuuming billions of kunas that have failed, but who has run them through these systems, so they've been led by experts. One INA was also led by experts in this country. One of the Post Offices was run by experts. Politics is clearly responsible higher than the fact that these individuals place in these places. HEP, on the other hand, is responsible for policy because it dictated conditions, but on the grotesque economic system, politics actually had no impact. Of course I justify the help of shipbuilding policy, only a man asks himself a question as long as it happens. Of course I'm just saying that the policy in the budget is aimed at 15.2 million kuna and for pulse weight, absolutely yes, the owner is the government. But it should also be said that the company was run by experts, the supervisory boards were also unionists, they weren't people from local self-government whose windows were normally demonstrated, etc., etc. But why am I saying this? Because every example is simply a world to itself. I claim that by virtue of this law there will be good examples, but by virtue of this law, gentlemen, there will be bad examples. And then really a man asks himself how to write a law that could simply be such, flexible enough to avoid simply those bad examples. As far as this conflict of interest is concerned, I am convinced that even without speaking to the law, what is a conflict of interest, anyone who behaves any public function knows very well what is moral, which is not moral, and by the fact that conflict of interest is not a conflict of interest. I will never, ever say one more time, a legislator can't write down absolutely all those cases when someone is or is not in conflict of interest. Never can any such situation be simply normable. No situation is the same, as neither of us in this House nor in the country is the same. We are clearly in a business called politics, the Parliament, the executive power is clearly far more forced to make political, economic, economic decisions. It's equally true for the public, for the communal, I dare say business alike. In the country because of a series of arrests lately, I've talked about it on several occasions, some have spoken, I think Mr. Serb two, three days ago, almost life paralyzed and it's not good. The police, even dare say, have begun to exaggerate. Even in one case, one of our representatives, our colleague, suggests what the State's Attorney's office should do. It's just one thing, I dare say, worse than politics controlling the state's attorney's office or the judiciary, which is that the state's attorney's office or the judiciary is being controlled by the police, and in that second even more radical phase the next day, like in the case of South America or Africa, the military. Gentlemen, politics is certainly a business where people have to make decisions. I can understand that someone in politics is wrong, I understand that. We're just people, we're wrong, but I can't justify that anyone takes something for themselves or for their own, or sets up jobs, and that's actually the point. I can, I can make this glass fall and break and I can figure it out. But normally, neither I nor anyone else can just take that glass, and that's actually the point. I also claim that conflict of interest in this country is in everything, at all levels. He's got it in politics, he's got it in the executive office, he's got it in the judiciary, he's got it in the police department, he's got it in the media, he's got it on TV, he's got it in the economy. There are conflicts of interest in unions, there are associations. I said the last time I spoke to you from the budget, for example. organizations go to an annual level of 630 million kuna. If we add up another 200, 300, maybe 500 million kunas of local self-government, so big public systems turn around a billion, maybe a billion and 500 million kuna. Where is this greatest conflict of interest to me? In the dictation of executive power with this House. That they're MPs, for example. directly elected I claim that this dictatorship would certainly be less. Where do I see this conflict of interest? Well, you see, with almost half of our laws that we vote for or don't vote on, some group in this country is eligible. You can't please someone today through conversion, you can't please someone today through a position on a supervisory board in a company because they're all being monitored, supervised and so on. It's been a long time, but it can be a good time for a group, for example. If the Tourism Land Act is not passed, then we release the tycoons 10, 20 years of compensation for camps that they use and so on. You can't directly benefit someone from a company, but you can do it through, for example. Customs tariffs favour individuals etc., etc., now that I simply do not list them. One word 1001 conflicts of interest can be found right through legal standards. And this law we see mostly who it tangs? It's tanging officials, okay I say hello, there's no problem, but I also often repeat that the parties sometimes have far fewer budgets, for example. from individual associations, from individual unions. Associations often have bigger budgets than the biggest parties, about the capital not to talk, etc. However, with the executive power of power in this country at the moment are the media, it is also capital. And tomorrow, I'm afraid it might be even more pronounced and that it's precisely those relations that need to seek conflict of interest. God forbid real power in this country becomes police, based on some of the statements we've had recently followed. There's no problem at all. We will also support this law, but I repeat that there is a 1001 situation which is actually a different column and that sometimes people who are in politics are less expressed in this conflict of interest than those we often call experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56341	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56342	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's incorrect, colleague Caine, that in the case of one of our colleagues in the Parliament, as you said, the police tried to influence the attorney's office and tell him what to do. The police warned of something else, warned a possible coup because the person from the attorney general who was investigating the case was family members, members of the rope family, and the same person were employees, or subordinated to the person under investigation. Therefore, this may be about conflict of interest, and we may be able to talk about it, but there is no way that the police want to influence the attorney's office what needs to be done. I think you've made a complete mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56343	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56344	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. And here we are again at the conflict of interest, a little bit about the reports, a little bit about the law, and I think all these discussions will help make the commission work better. Normally, the commission contributes safely and to curb corruption in its own way, that all those property cards that are there are public, that everyone can look at them, that they can assess whether their neighbor has something more than he wrote, that they can also assess at the end of the mandate whether this difference has increased drastically or is there, somewhere in line with legal incomes. A little, here's the debate already started, I see on the boards, about the supervisory boards. Well, while politicians were on boards, mostly yes, clearly in companies that are of interest to Croatia, there were very many criticisms that politicians do so in their own way, so no one is still controlling them. Now that we're starting with a proposal to be members of the supervisory committees who are, so I can say now that they're already educated, prepared, and we're getting through a public tender, now it's no good. They'll turn out to be bigger sinners than they were politicians. So then I ask myself a question, and what's the whole story? Of course we won't all agree on this, but I think we're on the verge of the board of supervisors depoliticalizing and that the waist that's going to be inside is certainly taking his job very seriously. It's a good thing we made a really clear, loud, decided decision that there are no other salaries, no other income for officials other than travel expenses, and other than the costs associated here with staying somewhere. If there's a session somewhere else scheduled and something like that. I think that's how we cut pretty much it because there have been big cases of people getting in a few places, so I can say small wages, can't pay yet, but a small salary, and that's a lot of it. Here, when we talk a little bit about the commission, the fact is that we're running into countless different cases. Each case is, in its own way, specific and the commission is a lot of discussion, about any case, except those cases that are so quite clear that a decision can be made immediately and that's good. In fact, in the law itself, it is even envisaged that the commission initiates and amends laws which I do not think will be possible because amendments to the law are initiated either by representatives, clubs, government etc., but clearly that the commission can do so indirectly. For who else, if they will not look at the commission and see it, will see what needs to be changed in the law. Here's what the esteemed colleague Cain says has 1001 situations, right, different when we're looking for a conflict of interest somewhere or not, it's true. While here are the officials of the ruling coalition without a problem and I mean impartially and professionally, in all possible ways, the opposition officials are justified. I don't understand why, because the fact that there's a sure conflict of interest if a state attorney is running a case against you, and you hire her daughter, and suddenly the procedure is solved for you. I mean very handsome. It doesn't matter what the town of Koprivnica and my colleague Mršić is, but the fact that it is clear and loud is to say who is to blame and what is to blame. And who turns out to be guilty in the end? The secretary of police who reacts. So who's going to react at the end? We'll all keep quiet together, and corruption develops with full steam. We can, I can see that the colleagues in the opposition are getting a little louder. But the fact is we can also talk about that the president, here is the National Council for Combating Corruption, is also the Deputy Mayor of Rijeka. And on the big mouth defends us all, protects us all from corruption, while the city's Rijeka Sport company triples every investment, whether it's a pool or a sports hall. Well, then that's fine, but it's not God that someone who is one of our officials is anything wrong with his finger points to him and clearly condemns him in every way possible. Is the conflict of interest when, say, the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media spends two months with Sherbedji at sea, and does not call the Committee. What's the use? Some of it's worth it, definitely. Otherwise, he'd be here doing his duty properly. That's it, that's it. No, not in eighth. He didn't show up until 15.7.2 months last year, but he was getting a paycheck here as neatly as this year. My colleague Vidovic, please do not defend indefensibly, only if you do not intend to defend perhaps a colleague of Kotromanović who has received a salary in two places, I do not know which way from Kio Orahovica. Is that a conflict of interest? Well, anyway, I think you'd be able to talk about it. And I don't think all these examples I've set would go into a thousand and one different example of what my colleague Cain says, but a very, very narrow group that the commission should discuss. We're talking about repression. Well, the commission has some possibility of repressing two to 20,000 kunas. Mostly, those who have not given up or in time are punished for their property card and after warning. And in the end who they are, and what about what they didn't pass the old law card at all. Nothing happened to them. Under the new law, a resolution can be requested, but it really needs to be made clear and loud that it will be difficult to go with MPs. It will probably go with all those who can free the city, county or municipality. So, countless more likely cases are different. It is likely that this law will be amended in the coming years. Based on the example of some laws in the European Union, it is likely to serve and give to the Council and greater rights. But right now, I think that here's everything that's been done in this law that's going to contribute, very much contribute to the fact that the real commission is working with more authority and with more determination and even more concrete than it has done so far. And we've seen from the report that it's handled a large number of cases, significantly higher than ever before, and that people with confidence address the commission clearly whenever they're in a dilemma whether they're in conflict of interest or not. Normally, the Club of Representatives and representatives of the HDZ will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56345	Thank you. We've got corrections. Mr. Sima Luchin's first representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56346	Thank you very much. Here's what I'm going to focus on is just two incorrect allegations. The first incorrect assumption is that this law will contribute to the depoliticalisation of the supervisory boards and thus control the firm. In fact, you chose the Supervisory Board by competition or named it is never a problem on the Supervisory Board, it's always a problem with the owner. If the owner wants the company to be run professionally and if the assembly functions, then the supervisory boards will also function and be depolitised, or politicised. Another allegation is the role of police in Croatian society. Mr. Markovinović, read the Law on State's Attorney's Office and read the Law on Criminal Procedure, and you will see that it is unacceptable for the police to comment on the decisions of the State's Attorney's Office. The police, if they suspected something, were to launch an investigation and determine what it was, rather than publicly commenting on the investigation. And it was agreed whether you or not pressured the judiciary, or the State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56347	Thank you. Vice-President Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56348	Thank you very much. It is incorrect to quote counterpart Markovanovic that the opposition seeks to apply other criteria in determining possible conflict of interest when it comes to opposition MPs. Namely, the insinuation that the mayor of Koprivnica, who is otherwise the decision of the State's Attorney's Office whose indictment, or the police's application, is rejected, is that he hired the daughter of the state's attorney, does not stand. In such a case, it could be interpreted that each mayor is in conflict of interest in the case of any of his fellow citizens who decide on his or her possible responsibility. That's just funny. It's purely politicizing something that falls within the jurisdiction of either the police or the state's attorney's office inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56349	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56350	A colleague of Markovanovic, you are indeed politicizing the worst way of deciding on a conflict of interest, so you list examples of only opposition MPs. Given that the credibility of officials is the main starting point in determining conflicts of interest, I suggest that the Committee take into account the situation of the Prime Minister's, the driver of the minister and the interested persons. A statement by the police minister that the state's attorney's office is unworthy, a statement by the president of the Constitutional Court that the referendum under the old constitution has entered the conflict of interest twice. She presented herself as the Constitutional Court and gave an evaluation before her decision. You could and should have taken the commission into consideration. Is that what makes these officials credible or introduces them into conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56351	There's been a bit of an expansion of the subject around, not mentioned in the correction, because no one's ever talked about it. But we're just trying to say I'm correcting an incorrect quote, so then you say what you want. Just because it's heard that it's still correcting an incorrect quote, which then doesn't have to be fixed in speech, but it's important to keep a form. Let's move on, it's the club of representatives of HNS, HSU, and Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56352	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministry, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Unlike my colleague Cain, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners have no doubt whether this law is necessary or not to debate and bring it to the Croatian Parliament. Yes, it needs to be debated and brought, and not only today, but also in the coming years, because this law is certainly a contribution to the upgrade of the regulation in the matter of conflict of interest, and surely this final proposal will more precisely identify the area of prevention of conflicts of interest, and this will have to be continued for the coming years. I think that the time ahead, that at least once a year will have to be revised in some way by the solutions in this law and upgraded, because it's a matter that we're just sort of mastering. To remove any dilemma at the beginning, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired, although there are certain dilemmas I will talk about in the follow-up to my presentation, will support the adoption of this law, give strong support and participate in improving this regulation. What we are pleased with is that certain solutions that have been suggested by the committee have been incorporated into the final bill of law, certain solutions that have arisen from the debate in the first reading, so here in this assembly, and it makes this whole procedure quite correct and in some ways serious. I would like to draw some attention to something my colleague Markovanovic was saying here, this is not a commission law. These are, the commission will apply this law, but these are the rules of the game for all of us, for all public officials, and these are in some way the rules of the game in which all the behaviouralists, all the public officials of the public duties should adhere, and the aim is ultimately to prevent corruption or prevent the acquisition of illegal benefits. From, as a consequence of conflict of interest which may be. It may be acquiring illegal benefit on the one hand, or on the other hand damage to citizens. Both are long-term inadmissible. What I'd like to say is, if I could just look back on the law. We have in the new article, article 3, a terminology that is in some ways different from the terminology used by tax collectors in Croatian society or the Ministry of Finance. We're talking about getting a second salary, and the taxpayers are talking about a second income. So, in some ways, I suggest that I point to a discrepancy in this termology between the two ministries. Basically, I think it's right what the Ministry of Finance is using, all that's paid off in gross, and the official has a basic working relationship with another institution or another company, everything else that's paid off by another legal person is actually being treated as a second income. The second is the term used here in Article 3 and speaks, i.e. it is added to a provision which provides for officials of volunteers who are not paid to act as public office to determine the right to be treated as a public office. I think the term volunteer here has been used very Colloquially. At the time when we determine the right to receive the pay difference, so the other income is different from what is received by the company where he is employed, in what would belong to him in the conduct of a public office, he is no longer a volunteer. We use the term volunteer here very Colloquially, and it's not even the volunteer who, for example, is a volunteer. Deputy head of the municipality, who works in his office at the company, who receives a second income or receives a fee of a thousand and a half or two thousand kuna gross, or net, however, for the conduct of that public duty. So here's this term of volunteering I say used very Colloquially. What we have a dilemma in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners is that this law has not yet answered the question of the need for networking with other institutions of society in terms of the overall fight against corruption. This law has not yet answered whether the legislator did not have such ambitions or did not respect that need, is quite, quite another story, but what has to be said is realistic, when an assessment of one law is that the promoter did not foresee that position and that in networking with other institutions there is no speech here. What we are also having a problem with is Article 2 of the Law, i.e. Article 5 of the final proposal, which is complemented in a way that determines that the Government regulation prescribes the way in which the public tender is implemented and the conditions for the conduct of the duties of members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority package. We are aware, that is, that we must be aware that the government, such as the unit of local self-government, has been responsible for the appointment of officials to the supervisory boards and the board of directors and the boards of directors of companies and institutions so far. So we will have no appointment but will have a choice by public tender, however, responsibility remains either with the government or with the local self-government unit. I am afraid that something that is generally known in Croatian society will happen, that we will now set criteria and that certain groups of experts who have made certain certificates or programmes of education for people who will work on boards and supervisory boards will benefit from these amendments and amendments of the Law. The situation will not change significantly, some people will wear out because they will pay 1000 or 2000 euros to obtain the certificate that will ultimately not change the important quality of the work of the supervisory boards. In essence, by adopting these laws or by adopting a certain regulation, the Government may work for the benefit of those smaller groups that will be specialised in supplementary training or education of persons who will tomorrow be members of supervisory boards and boards of directors. Here one key question, appointed or selected by a person through a public tender in the Supervisory Board or the Administrative Board, is the key question whether that person acts in a way that the company or institution operates under the Law. If we don't have people like that inside, we can't get guarantees that they're going to do it that way, name them or choose them by public competition, and that's the key question. DO they argue that these companies will respect the Law or not, or we may continue to have the tolerance to pay the accounts of the PR agency which have never used any service, but were used by the mayors or mayors of the municipalities, and they have come to those duties anyway from some party lists or some party support. So, what I'm saying is that here is the key question of these people's responsibility for the common good, for social property to protect the interests of the state, not the individual. We could easily come up with a situation that is now no longer appointing but in another way that through a public tender we will also conduct political staffing only because we will eliminate people who will eventually not have the proper expertise which is good and that we will eventually eliminate some people who would eventually be prevented from running for office because they are in some way in criminal persecution. It's a high-quality shift anyway. However, political staffing can also be conducted through a public tender, because there will always be someone who will ultimately make decisions, who will be determined on the basis of a public tender in which firm. That's why I'm thinking that when we can conduct political staffing through a public tender, for the sake of more precise and direct determination of responsibility, it's better to remain appointing, because then we know the person responsible is the one who is appointed and can point out that he is responsible for what is happening in a particular commercial society, this way we'll hide behind possible expert cookries, behind possible certificates, we didn't know, and in essence we can decide again who will be sitting on exactly what supervisory board or board of directors. Regardless of these shortcomings that I was talking about, this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Public Dutys is a step forward, is a step towards improving the legal framework in which the Committee is acting, but in which all officials should act, this is an area and criteria for which officials should act. Therefore, this is a positive step forward and the People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in Public Dutys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56353	Thank you. We've got corrections. First, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56354	Yes, the correction of an incorrect quote. I'm not against this law, I'm that the more the situation is predicted, because life, you'll all agree with me here, is much more complex than it may seem, not all people in politics are thieves or all experts are honest. If material goods were to be put on the scale of us and them, you would see which side would simply prevail. It's just as much better to be in this country today to be a member of some company management than a parliamentary representative, so they've got a hundred times as many of us. But where I think there's a big problem here, a man in politics can always be monitored as the most powerful through the public, this other one can be monitored by politics, any such act will simply be portrayed as a political lynch. However, what this law should regulate is where I see the biggest conflict of interest, where former ministers, prime ministers, vice presidents, suddenly become members of the supervisory boards of large private societies at the end of the term of office. It would be far better if these people retired immediately than indirectly, through such a form, to suggest who they represented whose interests they defended through their mandates. However, once again, each case is specific and should be regulated in a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56355	Thank you. Vice-President Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56356	A colleague of Hrelj spoke of a possible conflict of interest in the case of members of the supervisory board of municipal companies and cited some examples. I'm saying that these examples are not potential conflicts of interest, but crimes, or simply robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56357	Thank you. And the HSS Club Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56358	Dear President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. As we know, one of the fundamental objectives of this government is the uncompromising fight against corruption at all levels, and not only because it stems from the pre-accession process as part of the preparation for membership in the European Union, but also because without eradicating this evil that is growing social tissue and is causing great damage, there is no progress in further developing the Republic of Croatia. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties has reduced the ability of officials to join administrations and supervisory committees of companies, in the administrative councils of institutions and extra-financial funds. The purpose of this is to eliminate a possible situation that would leave room for corruption. In other words, in advance, it avoids a situation where it is possible to put private interest ahead of both the public and the self or the close supply of certain benefits. Exceptionally, officials may be members of up to two supervisory boards of companies, institutions and extra-financial funds which are of particular national interest, except where a special law provides that an official is a member of the Supervisory Board in a position. The fact is that this law has so far had several amendments and additions and thus is being approached by this change, however, the process shows the development of knowledge about the potential to fight corruption. In particular, this legislative proposal is foreseen as one of the measures in the revised Action Plan in the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which provides for its amendments to prescribe that members of the company supervisory boards are elected on the basis of a public tender, as well as the introduction of an obligation to notify of the property, sources and the way in which they are acquired and for members of the State Commission for the control of the procurement process. In addition, the Commission's proposal to decide on a conflict of interest detailed the provisions of the law which led to certain concerns in practice and also to the legal gaps that it showed during its application. It also complements certain provisions aimed at improving and improving the effectiveness of the conflict of interest system, thus improving both the legal and institutional framework for the effective and systematic control of corruption. Unfortunately, I am afraid that the causes of these harmful phenomena will not be removed forever, nor will any other legal regulations, but in this way we narrow down the area for corruption and thus affect the reduction of its negative effects on the public interest or the general good. The selection of members of company supervisory boards in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority stake package or majority share based on a public tender will contribute to greater transparency of work, which is one of the preconditions in the fight against corruption. In this case, we also welcome the fact that this legislative proposal provides that its provisions apply to members of the State Commission for the control of the procurement process. We believe that it should be pointed out in particular that it is now more precise that officials are obliged to submit property cards at the beginning of each new mandate, as well as the authority of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for the verification of property card data by officials. The maximum transparency and greater control will also be ensured by the fact that data on the property of officials who submit their duties to the Commission at the end of their duties, as well as data on changes in assets during their duties will be public and can be published without the consent of the officials. In fact, according to the current law, only property data registered by the official at the beginning of the term of office are published, and this will change. It is also good that the law excludes the possibility for an official to enter into a business relationship with a public authority in which he behaves during his or her conduct and for a year after the conduct of his or her public duties, thereby preventing the possibility of entering business relations on the basis of the use of influence and familiarity. In addition, an official who, during the course of his or her duties, receives a salary other than other salaries shall not receive any compensation for other public duties, unless he carries out the activity permitted by this law. It is essential to increase the effectiveness of the Commission's work on conflict-of-interest decision-making is a clearer definition of the provisions to initiate the procedure before the Commission and to determine when it is mandatory to initiate the procedure and where a procedure for establishing conflicts of interest can be initiated. A deadline shall also be laid down for the disclosure of the officials of the application or decision. In particular, we consider extending the circle of sanctions that the Commission will be able to impose in the future, with the already existing three sanctions, to be able to impose a proposal for discharge from the public duties provided for in the most severe forms of violations of the law and in the event where the official deliberately conceals the property. Amendments to the sanctions shall also be made to suspend the payment of the net monthly salary of officials which so far has not been possible. Namely, it is prescribed from 10 thousand to 20 thousand kuna. It is not possible to implement such a provision in relation to a large number of officials acting on a voluntary basis and not receiving a salary for their work but only a fee, and this proposal reduces the payment of a net monthly salary of officials to an amount of 2 to 20 thousand kuna in order to comply with the real situation and can be implemented in reality. The possibility to impose sanctions on officials who do not submit to the Commission a report on the property at the beginning of the term of office is also provided for, which has not been the case so far, as there is only the possibility of giving a sanction to an official who does not submit a report on the property at the time of termination of his or her duties or the expiry of his or her term of office. This legislative proposal lays down that the Commission adopts a Regulation on the verification of the data and the report on the property of the officials and is authorised to verify the information contained in the debt cards of officials, which is not only the request of the European Commission, but also the legal solution has most of the countries in our environment. In particular, it is necessary to highlight a provision under which an official who has been relieved of public duties due to violations of this law cannot act in public service for a period of 2 to 5 years. The obligation of a part of the public authority is also established to verify, before the election or appointment of an official with the Commission for a decision on a conflict of interest, whether the proposed candidate has been relieved of his public duty over the last five years for breach of this law. All of these will certainly contribute to greater transparency, thus further narrowing down corruption space and also contributing to strengthening citizens' confidence in the system. From all of this, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56359	Thank you. At 11.13, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. I would like to inform you that the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic, has scheduled a session today at 1 2:30 p.m. in the Committee President's Office, room 244/II. I am also informing my colleagues and colleagues that in this time until the end, so by Thursday, we will be working without a break, without a break, and that we will try. We have 48 agenda points so far included here. There might be another one. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56360	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister. With the content of the proposal for this law, you have in some way forced me to support it as well, and it would be even better if the Legislative Committee had published the consolidated text of the law in view of the importance and frequent changes in order to understand the law. The consolidated texts are of great benefit, and in Croatia, somewhere along the way, at the speed of passing the law, we lost good practice to publish refined texts after the third amendment of the law. Finally, I have also experienced that members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures are covered by this law, because whenever it was on the agenda, the Commission's law never accepted my insistence that they be subject to this law. Because I think it's one of the state commissions with the highest possible entry into conflict of interest. And by including them, even though their home law says they're not officials, I think it's very good that you suggested it. The suggestion on Article 3 of the amendment and supplementation is about an official who does not work professionally, and the fee he would receive to the difference in wages he would make to work. In fact, officials who do not work professionally do not necessarily have to be employed and pay. What about a farmer, a craftsman or an unemployed citizen who performs some duty unprofessionally, who usually doesn't receive any pay. So this definition of volunteer and salary is not a good concept because it does not include those who are not in a working relationship and do not receive a classic salary, so I suggest that in Article 3 you rename this term "pays" to income, because income is made by farmers, craftsmen, craftsmen, so at least let us be clear and clear. As regards Article 4 and the restriction that a company in which an official has more than 20% cannot enter into a business relationship with a public authority. Seems to me that 20% is pretty high. I've been pushing for it to be a far lower limit. But apparently a consensus has been reached about it, or maybe a few amendments will fly in. I won't give it, but if I wrote it, I'd write 1%. I know you wouldn't accept that, but good. Article 5 of the amendment and addition, Minister, is that supposed to be in this law? He's talking about the election procedure and the appointment of supervisory committees. It seems to me that it's not the matter of this law, that it belongs to these provisions in some other law, not this one. But when you have already introduced provisions in the conflict of interest on how the Government will propose or select members of the Supervisory Board, then, by the way, only one example of how it takes care of the supervisory committees. On Friday, members of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's Supervisory Board voted on a proposal from the government. Four MPs, because that's what the law says. Three by duty, by function, because that's what the law says. So, the chairman of the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Tourism, as well as two independent experts. Are they going to the competition in the future? I doubt it, but the government has failed to explain the law to write that the Croatian Privatisation Fund has not had the Supervisory Board since 2007, since the disbanding of the previous assembly. It simply forgot to propose to the Parliament the appointment of members of the Privatisation Fund's Supervisory Board, so until now, by Friday, practically the Privatisation Fund had no supervisory board at all. And on the other hand, the whole story, all the movies, novels, press conferences, round tables and professional debates were organized about how the government must propose members of the Supervisory Board. And here we have a situation that three years has been missed by the government to propose to Parliament the election of members of the Supervisory Board. And final. Of course, I welcome the fact that you have accepted my proposal to bring into the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests a sanction for proposing a discharge from duty. It's actually the strongest sanction. But don't make a mistake. This sanction now imposed in this law can apply only to appointed officials, not elected in the elections, because the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has no one to propose the resolution of mayors, mayors, mayors, representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and perhaps, therefore, ministers and in Article 19a, therefore even in Article 9 of the amendment and supplement, or in the new Article 19a, for clarity, it should be said that this measure, a pardon, that this measure can be written... only with appointed officials, because if this is the only way to read it, there could be confusion. [[You don't understand.]] This would be possible if my draft law had been adopted, the amendment of the Law on the Election of Representatives, the election of municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors and members of the Government, the amendment of the Law on Government, where I had just proposed that conflict of interest and sanctions could be the end of the term of office. While it is the elected officials, it is only possible to automatism, not this institute to propose a resolution measure, because I say it is only possible for appointed officials. However, I welcome it, I accept that at least in the appointed officials, we have set out with the possibility of proposing or adopting a resolution measure in front of the body that appointed it. Finally, the same Article 9th paragraph speaks of sanctions to the official if he has given incorrect information on the property with the intention of concealing the property. How will the commission prove its intention? So he lied, he covered up some of the property, and now we need to prove to him that he was doing it with the intention of covering up the property. It's about people who are not without schools, who are not without experience, who, at the time of running, whether they have to know the rules for choice or appointments. They take oaths, more or less all of them, and the question of not reporting or misrepresenting the property data cannot be treated in a way that someone has mistakenly reported to the villa, because he forgot, not in order to cover it up. And that's exactly what this is about to cover up the property is going to be the hardest part of the evidence committee's work. Any incorrect application must be sanctioned. Why? After all, the commission has the right and opportunity to ask each official, and gives him a 30-day deadline to repair and remove a milder conflict of interest. To complete or modify incorrect data. And if, after that period of correction that the commission gave him, we still need to prove that he was intending to cover up the property, then it turns out that we trust him more than we trust ourselves. Delete this intention from the intentional article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56361	Thank you. It's our guest, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56362	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is certainly a step forward in the fight against corruption and as such a measure has been established, and this amendment and addition has been established by the action plan against corruption. So in this sense, I will absolutely support this amendment and addition proposal, primarily all its nomotechnical changes, i.e. changes to the nature that improve the legal text and allow for its clearer and unequivocal application, and this has been warned only by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, of all the indeterminateities encountered in the application of this law. First of all, I would say that it is good for the members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure to enter the circle of officials for the reasons that they are in some way these measures on the prevention of conflicts of interest are also in the very law which they have been established by the Union. Secondly, it is certainly well said that, in the case of reelection, the appointment of the same duty, the official must submit a report on his property and other duties, as well as a precise determination of what is all compensation. But the main reason, i.e. the main amendments to this law, are the changes that speak of officials not being members of the Supervisory Board of Commercial Companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, I absolutely support this provision as an anti-corruption measure, and I am more surprised by the SDP club that it is now expressing doubts about this intention, although we have listened here, so I would say a year and more about what officials in the supervisory committees are doing. Recently, a member of the SDP presented this to the experts of the European Commission as a longstanding complaint to the SDP why the officials are there, but we hear from some other opposition clubs that, despite this provision, there will be a possible political impact, and then I don't know what would be enough to say that the two-thirds majority in the Assembly are named by these members, and then it would be a political consensus. So I certainly politically support the amendments to this law, and now I will warn a few provisions that should be considered, and where a different expression should be made that the intention should be fully with this legal text and implemented. So, first of all, in Article 11 which states that members of the supervisory boards, boards of commercial companies in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority stake, or a majority stake, proposes to the main assembly, or to the general government, on the basis of the previously held tender, so we come to a situation where the text would remain this way, that if Croatia does not have a majority package, then the question of how the member of the Supervisory Board should then be appointed by the Government on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, so that it should then be chosen, and therefore should be replaced by the word that has shares or shares, because, as we know, the supervisory boards reflect the ownership structure as well as the assembly, so that it should include those cases where the Republic of Croatia does not have a majority package of shares and the majority share. Furthermore, the objections raised here in relation to the commission's going to be doing a data check I think this is corrupted well. It has been said that it will do so under the Data Verification Procedure, and this Regulation will be adopted with the previous consent of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, that regulation, I firmly believe, will not provide for the commission to become a new investigative body and that it will use all the institutions to obtain data and thus also verify that those who have submitted the report would also have a responsibility for what the report says. Furthermore, what I think is good, which is that there has been sanctions for not handing over the report and at the beginning of the term of office because so far has been only sanctions unless the report is submitted at the end of the term of office. It's good that this range of fines is extended, so it turns out that the reduced fine is good to be enforceable at all. Because compared to the provision that a third of the fee or salary could not be paid for more than 3 months then it turned out that this current legal minimum that could actually be said in practice was inconclusive. That's why it's good. Next, we heard a debate here that it might be believed that the commission would have the right to submit proposals for the resolution of directly appointed officials. Of course, this cannot be seen and this can be seen in the following article, 19a, but perhaps that it would be immediately unequivocal and clear should be stenciled in a way to say that the appointed official who, and I would also suggest that he also stands who does not submit a report or that untrue information in that Property Report, that the commission may impose sanctions on a proposal for discharge from public duty. So, to be clear, it is only a designated official that can then be resolved by the body. Why is it important to put and prevent punishment in this paragraph and for the intolerance of the report? I consider it because now, unless the official submits a report at the beginning of the term of office, he may be punished by some fine. If he has a small fee, that fine will be very small for him, and if he doesn't submit the report again, then what? Will he suddenly be punished with such fines? I therefore believe that this item could include a case, therefore, if the official does not submit a report, or if in that report that untrue information can also suffer this sanction. And I would also like to warn, I know, the minister said, that this provision of Article 11, which introduces a new paragraph 4, that a company in which an official has 20% or more stakes and shares cannot enter into a business relationship with a public authority in which the official is acting. It's taking over a percentage of the Public Procurement Act that says that. But personally, I think it's a pretty big percentage, and given the need to prevent conflict and interest, it might really be, it wouldn't be good if an official could do business with a firm that has, say, 19% stakes, if it's a big company, it's an extremely big deal. And something else that may not be, it doesn't apply to this law, but I suggest to the motionary as responsible for civil servants. By amending this 2006 law, therefore, one whole series of officials until then, and now high-ranking civil servants are no longer subject to, logically, this law because they are no longer officials. They're former assistant ministers as we know them, and now they're high-ranking civil servants. They are no longer subject to a new choice after the end of the term of office of a particular structure, but I suggest that in the Law on Civil Servants then consider the head who speaks of the conflict of interest in the conduct of the civil service, so that perhaps those officers who are very high-ranking and are in a position to hold public funds where conflict of interest is possible to determine the submission of some property card as provided for by the Law on Judges' Courts or State Lawyers, so it would not be impossible for that property for that category of civil servants to also be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56363	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First, the distinguished representative Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56364	Thank you very much. In her presentation, my colleague Lovrin has troubled the views of some of the MPs, under which even these proposed amendments to the Law of Conflict of Interest will not contribute to preventing or better quality the prevention of conflicts of interest. Well, with that attitude, I actually want to pollute. It is perfectly justified, fellow Lovrin, that many of us in this Assembly think that no changes and additions to this or other laws that should prevent any conflict of interest, as well as different abuses by political officials or by political officials appointed and appointed people, will not contribute to preventing abuses because even so far the provisions of the law or the law so far have not been simply respected, has not been applied. And so far the provisions could have prevented much. There was much to be done that there was the political will of the majority. But there was no political will of the majority. As a rule, it goes through announcements or warning that someone is breaking the law, that someone is not only in conflict of interest but in abuse of his position, and that leads him to conflict of interest and to conflict with the law. It is bad, and there is no indication that this will change when, by calling for a larger number of hands, the majority of votes received in the elections are tolerated and conflicts of interest and abuse of law and criminal offences.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56365	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56366	Thank you very much. counterpart Antunovic, the highlight of political will, is the adoption of the law. It is this current political majority in this Croatian assembly that has passed in the last six years a series of laws that abuse of position can also be processing. As far as we know some years ago, during the coalition of other SDP authorities, conflicts of interest have been identified in this Parliamentary Commission but have remained nowhere for a simple reason because there were no laws or institutions that would then further prosecute these conflicts of interest as criminal offences. Therefore, the political will has undoubtedly been demonstrated by the adoption of a package of legislation-enhancing institutions, which can then fine-tuning what starts as a conflict of interest which will be determined by the Commission and very often ends as a criminal act which is now possible and prosecuted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56367	Thank you. Another replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56368	Thank you very much. Your colleagues Lovrin pointed out a clearer statement of the article that provides for the tender process for the appointment of members of supervisory boards in companies where there is a majority share or majority package of shares in the Republic of Croatia. There is a need for the competition to be conducted in all those companies where there is no majority package where there are shares or shares because, for example, 10 or 15% of Podravka, HEP, HZ or Croatia airlines are worth significantly more than 100% of the stake in some companies. Experience teaches us that this is certainly the step you said because so far, in many cases, the managers were promoted beyond the limits of their competence. These competitions will certainly get more quality management, only to worry that we will not get one problematic situation to do everything to eliminate the full impact of various associations, from the employers' association, from the manager's association of licensed board members who have acquired licences over an hour, two gatherings, paying expensive and licensed members of the board of directors, that is to devaluation of professions, devaluation of education, that is to ignore knowledge, ignoring experience, and I believe that this competition process will certainly contribute to a more quality management of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56369	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course, fellow Maric, we have seen that, probably, many MPs have noticed that there is a lack in this text, and I hope that the Government will know that it will be the Regulation on competitions for members of the Supervisory Boards, and I would say that any good intention can be produced in its opposite, so that, in its own time, a provision arises in order for members of the Supervisory Board to have a license to act and then it is done in Dalmatia to say that it was done, that many companies have earned good money and we have many people who have this certificate, how much knowledge it is, but the government will certainly know what formal conditions are needed for membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56371	Thank you. Now it is up to the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56372	I agree, and I think it's a good thing that politicians can't be supervisory committees, so to remind myself of a drastic case it's a Brodosplit affair and then the Minister of Economy, Mr Vukelic, today's Defence Minister was the chairman of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board, then it turns out that politicians, the political majority is not ready to accept even the possibility of political responsibility as a form that would be appropriate to banalise one behaviour, which we said would be a lot of justification here, so it seems to me that fellow Hebrang has just said, so who would read so much material etc. Even if we do so that future members of the supervisory board, and especially their presidents, find time to read the material, it seems to be a huge leap, material for the meetings of the supervisory committees that they need to lead. But that is why my colleague Antunovic's reasonable suspicion, even when the laws exist that we are not willing to respect each other, is not well-respected when it comes to political heads, political powers and political electors.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56373	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56374	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Jurjevic, I hope that these amendments to this Law are on the trail of this, that future members of the Supervisory Board really commit themselves to their work, members of the Supervisory Board, and that they have time and time to read those materials that they need to read and do in accordance with the Law on Trade Companies that are in their jurisdiction. Whoever was reading, and who wasn't with this burden were carrying all the governments, so I remember so, we're gradually going, here's the amendment to the Law that the official can be on the top of two supervisory committees, so now we suggest he can't be at all, and you remember, and I remember some governments during Prime Minister Racan's time when the Deputy Prime Minister, I think, here he can deny me, but I think he was in some 20 supervisory committees that he had to think about which materials he had to read, whether he was able to read them, I don't believe it, but that's why we proposed amending the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56375	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The colleague rightly opened the controversy over Article 4 which says that the company in which the official has 20% more shares or shares cannot enter into a business relationship, she said it should be less. I don't think we should go in at all. If any percentage of the official has, in that company, that institution, the company, that company should in general conclude a contract with that body of public authority in which the official performs his duties. We had a situation that Minister Racanov Cacic made a contract, and his ministry concluded contracts with his companies worth more than 600 million kuna. Not that it's a conflict of interest, but it's for some other institutions. However, the same person who, of course, became president of the party, the president of the CNS, speaks publicly of the commission and its decisions as whatever, so these are some politicians who made decisions there, so that is this political structure in the Parliament, they have made nothing of it. Therefore, they do not recognise at all the results of the commission's work, so there is an impression that, of course, there is an obvious conflict of interest. If this were to happen today, of course, that the head of any official would immediately fly at any level, however, that person continues to behave in a very high duty. Today, it was also heard in the debate that the SDP defends what was happening in Koprivnica where there is a clear reading of the conflict of interest because the lawyer investigating the case, her husband is a member of the SDP, an employee of a city firm whose mayor, or mayor, is investigating what he was doing and how he worked. Really, I don't know if the SDP thinks the public is blind and doesn't see what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56377	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56378	Mr. Vice President. Well, yes, I agree with you fellow that this percentage should either be smaller or should not be at all. In this regard, the European Commission's experts also warned by looking at the proposal for this law and also the Public Procurement Act, Article 5c, which says that the client can't make deals if he owns more than 20%. So I'm pointing out that maybe even in this law, it would be a place to throw it out completely or completely down. And as for this official you were saying that the Commission of Conflict of Interest established a conflict of interest which then detested the findings of this commission, I was just talking about it. Of course, at that time, the governing structure had neither the institutions nor the laws that this conflict of interest to which such a blatant reaction was actually later processed because it would actually be a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56379	Thank you. And Shime Luchin, the esteemed representative, claims to have a correction to an incorrect assumption. I'll take it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct one false allegation. counterpart Lovrin said the SDP is against this law and against officials not sitting on boards. No, the SDP isn't against it, we're just saying this, this in itself won't solve the problem. You will now have a situation that, instead of ministers who have sat on boards so far, they will appoint some people to sit there. Explain to me how this will solve or regulate this problem. I believe that we will solve these problems the way in fact when this House first rejects the majority's proposal. And in the end, I expected you to be an excellent lawyer and former justice minister to comment on police involvement in the work of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56381	Thank you. We're moving forward with an individual debate. It's our guest, Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In fact, this law is one of the laws which, to a large extent, sets out the way in which the Commission acts and acts to decide on a conflict of interest. There is a lot of doubt in the Committee itself, which should be a key part of the conduct of the Commission's duties, the work of the Committee itself, because it must in no way be a substitute for both the police and the State's attorney's office, and the very applications that come to the Committee for a decision on conflict of interest refer to it, or require exactly such interventions from the Committee itself. Therefore, the position of the Croatian Party is the right that the judicial authorities which are to act must fulfil their obligations, and the Commission should only limit the choice of a conflict of interest to determine whether or not individual persons to whom the law itself applies and the possible conflict of interest in it. The truth is, this law further defines the obligations of the state officials to which this law applies on the one hand, but also as it is good, defines and resolves certain doubts which may not have been sufficiently clearly defined by the existing law, and through this there was a question when, at which point and how state officials should submit reports and how certain sanctions are brought. What I have been particularly reserved on is precisely this question defined here in this Article 5, which selects members of the supervisory board of commercial companies owned by a state by a public tender. Namely, it is as an idea placed, it appeared the moment when extremely large problems and dissatisfaction occurred in the functioning of large state-owned companies when numerous failures, criminal actions, etc. were identified, but my reserves refer to the fact that no matter what members of the boards of directors will be elected through the competition. This does not exclude political influence on the one hand, but on the other hand complicates the system and comes into a situation where we have a much more complex system in which one who makes decisions, and this is the Government once again able to choose members of supervisory committees according to certain preferences. No one has ever prevented the government from choosing as members of the expert committees, those they trust, those people they think will behave in the best possible way. The question is, in fact, whether the distance of state officials and ministers from the boards of directors and supervisory committees simplifies the way in which it manages or unnecessarily complicates it, whether we are actually going to be further denied, additionally slowed economic flows, and ultimately this is also a matter of responsibility. Those who have passed certain electoral procedures also bear political responsibility, as well as for the functioning of the largest state-owned companies regardless of which of them. So there's one political responsibility, there's political responsibility for the government. If it moves to public tenders as a way of selecting members of the Supervisory Board, the question is whether it will only lead to one new alibi, with unnecessary complexity of the whole process. I don't think that's necessary, that even so far and in the future government and without that provision, it can determine persons in supervisory committees who, with their expertise, can do so with their knowledge and experience in such a way that the Government can trust them. That's why I'm around this law. I'll be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56383	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56384	Well, you said a good colleague wouldn't stop this way either, political influence, but it's good to get into this. However, it is even less important. It is important to establish the responsibility of the people who work and who are members of the boards of directors and supervisors. In order to establish such a responsibility, it is necessary to integrate into the criminal legislation that we had in 2003 a criminal offence of the abuse of trust under which the criminal offence is the first to be called upon by members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards, where the sentence I did not know withdraws responsibility and means recognition as it is everywhere in, and not justification as is everywhere in Europe, including in America. So in their modern world, the first to be called on is members of the boards of directors and supervisors, because their wages and responsibility are precisely to know what is going on. Eventually, they can be exaggerated from responsibility if someone misjudged some documents and led them astray. But then there's a burden of proof on them. That is why it is completely incomprehensible why the government persistently rejects this criminal act, the crime designed to say precisely for members of the boards of directors and supervisors. Then there wouldn't be any fuss about membership on those boards of directors and supervisors, because it would be a great responsibility. After all, there's a lot of compensation for that job.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56385	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56386	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I fully agree that there must be a system of responsibility for the members of the Supervisory Board. The question is, in fact, how can he be implemented? But I want to warn this opportunity of another danger. In fact, over the last year because of the internal party conflicts, I'd say there's a so-called expansion. The fight against corruption that led to a complete blockage of decision-making in companies, state administration and ultimately slowed down economic flows, and that is one of the key reasons why we have this year, we will have a decline in gross social product. In fact, political decisions and business decisions which are within the scope of decision-making by the competent authorities must not be criminalised in any way. One such criminalisation has actually blocked Croatia and Croatia out of that decision-making blockade, and this has extremely severe consequences for the economy in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56387	Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Davorin Mlakar, Minister of Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56388	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Some, speaking on behalf of the clubs, have expressed their reservations that they will not vote for this law. Most of us may have understood that in the benches, it wasn't against the idea or this life of this idea. And I thank all those who took part in this debate. The government remained consistent with its idea of not wanting to exert political influence on the supervisory boards and boards of commercial companies in which it has ownership stakes, so as to demonstrate that it does not want to exercise political influence through people who may have been so perceived in the public that only because of their political duties were members of these supervisory boards, i.e. boards of companies. In order for that to not happen, we have proposed a law that will introduce a public tender, to choose in a public competition, if possible, whether it is best. The guarantee that you'll be better than the ones that were once on the board of directors is gone. But we believe that this has opened up the widest public possibility that those who meet the conditions are running for those places. Whether we will succeed for all state-owned companies gets the best people based on a public tender remains to be seen by carrying out these tenders. But we have opened up the possibility of professionalising these places in some way, so that no one else in their position will be a member of the board of directors, or board of directors, and we believe that this is an excellent measure in democratisation of those positions or places. And secondly, there have been many conversations in the debate about it, something has been resolved by this law. But perhaps those who criticized him failed to see it. Therefore, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest does not act alone. It may be used by other authorities under this law to obtain all the knowledge or knowledge that they can use to make their decisions. We talked in the introduction that they are now getting a new meaning by being able to propose some sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions of this law. And we think it's a quality framework based on which we can choose people in the supervisory boards of companies owned by a public tender. We also said the opening, and I believe that that is the opinion of everyone, and it was brought forward in the debate. 20% of the ownership that restricts business with state administration authorities, that is, private companies where someone would have more than 20% share is a norm that has been transferred from another law and does not mean that it must remain in this law as well. The government will be visible on these proposals until the time when they will vote on the bill. What I can say is we have here amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I believe we can cut this procedure short right now. It's about technical amendments. One is talking about the new Bologna process, so it's no longer a member of the lawyers, it's a master's of law by the new ones. And the second is what was also discussed that the Commission cannot have an initiative to propose legislation. We would accept, so it can become an integral part of the law of these amendments, and on all the other proposals tabled in the debate or amendments we will be shown in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56389	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56390	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. As we have announced now there will be a vote on the debated and closed agenda points, so after you are comfortable and comfortable we will start working. We are going to vote on the debated items of the agenda. Please engage to determine the quorum. Let's get on with it. Because of the slow-down of the red light, it's necessary to check every time if it's turned on where we want it to go. I repeat it a few times, but it happens. The result? Let's see. We've got 90 reported. We can start with a vote. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties. It was a second reading, P.Z. Number 499. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and joint representatives Ana Lovrin and Goran Maric. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown on the joint amendments of the two MPs, Mr. Pavle Maticic, State Secretary. Here you go. Amendment 1 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56391	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Government accepts the amendment in the formulation, which would read: Article 5 and Article 13 of the final proposal for a word, the majority of the shares or the majority share is replaced by the words of the shares or shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56392	Here you go. Mrs. Lovrin. He was accepted in a statement that the secretary of state read here. Amendment 2 to Article 9
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56393	Mr President, the Government also accepts the amended formulation as follows: in Article 9(3) of the final draft law, which adds a new paragraph 4, the words to the official, is replaced by the words referred to as the official in Article 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56394	Thank you. Mrs. Lovrin. That statement was accepted. Okay, speaking of how the secretary of state read it. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties, of course with these amendments adopted. Here you go. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of 112 votes in favour and one abstention, nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56395	We move to point 2 - - The 2009 Data Protection Agency report submitted its report on the basis of Article 31. The law on the protection of personal data. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information and Information and Media, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. And then I open up the debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning, I would like to say on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, that the SDP Representatives' Club will not support the 2009 Data Protection Agency's work report. The reasons why we will not support this agency's report are briefly because we believe that this agency is not independent, which proved that in 2008, pressure from the government changed its opinion on the publication of a register or part of the data from the Croatian defenders' register. As you know, this register, or one of its unofficial copies, has been published this year and has caused a major political and legal challenge in Croatia, however the reasons why the agency has therefore stated that it does not want to publish, or that these data should not be published in some other cases. The progress of technology especially on the Internet has also increased standards that this agency must implement and respect in the protection of personal data. So today it's very easy to get to many personal information about citizens, and the Agency's report mentions several cases of violations of the Internet protection law. We think, therefore, that, apart from this political dimension, which is quite enough that the MPs' club does not support this agency's report, so as long as it has a leadership that is prone to political pressures, it should also be said that some other legal provisions in some way define our position. In short, the government has also called on the agency to make the next report more complementary, to be something better. The report is very brief, it does not show the totality of the work, or the need for this mode of work of this agency and, therefore, once again, because we do not have confidence in the independence of this agency we cannot support its report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56397	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56398	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. The protection of personal data is a constitutional category and is guaranteed to every citizen in the context of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is therefore regulated by law that institutions which, for certain reasons such as the opening of accounts in a bank collect personal data from citizens must not use them except for the purpose for which they are collected. If a citizen considers that his rights have been violated, due to the illegal processing of personal data, he may contact the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, since everyone who owns and manages the personal data collection is obliged to report that collection to the Agency that runs the central register of personal data collections. It should be noted that the Republic of Croatia has established a legislative framework in the field of the protection of personal data which is broadly in line with the acquis of the European Union. According to the report, the agencies have actively participated in activities related to the accession of the European Union and the working bodies to Europe, thus ensuring the exchange of experience with other countries on the protection of personal data. As a result of the development of new technologies that enable the rapid exchange of information, the protection of identity and personal data becomes a growing challenge, not only in Croatia and the European Union, but throughout the world. Unfortunately, there have already been cases in Croatia where citizens, for example, had to pay off loans that they had not raised, but someone else took the money, and they left only payment. The data protection of patients is also a challenge, since not so long ago it was possible to read in the daily press whether or not it was hacked into the patient’s electronic charts. Thus, a director of the home health department reported leaks of classified data from patient electronic records, which claimed to have come into the hands of private insurance houses and polyclinics. According to the Agency's 2009 report, a total of 189 non-administrative cases were received, of which the share of the opinion was 88 and the share of the other items corresponded to the indications, the replies to the evidence were 101. All items are solved. In particular, it seems interesting to note that of these 189 cases, 77 of them were received by natural persons, while 112 cases were received by legal persons. This means that during 2009, 77 citizens addressed the agency with various questions, from what is considered personal data, whether these data can be collected, whether they can be... co-owners shall publish on the apartment building’s advertising board, to whether political parties may use citizens’ data for political marketing purposes. [[You don't understand.]] The number of these questions is not so great, but I fear that this shows always insufficient awareness of citizens' rights, as an interest in protecting their personal data. It also shows the number of claims for protection of the rights and complaints of citizens submitted in 2009 by 102, of which 93 were submitted by citizens, 6 unions and associations, and 3 media. 44 solutions have been adopted following the procedure, at the request of law enforcement, 37 of which respects the requirements for the protection of rights and the measures imposed for the prohibition of collection and further processing of personal data. Deleting measures and 7 solutions which have been rejected for the protection of rights. The Agency also wrote 52 replies, i.e. opinions on the requests submitted, 7 measures and warnings to the Head of the Collection concerning the establishment of irregularities in the procedure and 2 recommendations for improving the protection of personal data. The requirements concerned the unauthorised processing and use of personal data for marketing purposes, the unauthorised provision of personal data on the use of other users as well as the unauthorised public publication of personal data on the Internet. Citizens also complained about cases of excessive personal data collection. Unauthorized use of other persons' personal data in procedures of enforcement, processing of personal data for the purpose of collection and request by the processor, inadequate protection of personal data on accounts, and public publication of data on citizens' debt on the apartment building’s advertising board. How secure, however, the protection of the personal data of citizens who experience a car accident shows the example set out in this report, which I will refer to later as an illustration. The HSS Club will support this report, and we would like to point out that we still need to work systematically to strengthen citizens' awareness of the need to protect personal data in order to prevent abuses. We also believe that it is still necessary to systematically monitor entities that collect and process personal data in order to raise their protection to an adequate level of security because, as shown by the report, part of the supervised institutions, for example, in the healthcare and social care sector, did not adequately resolve that legal provision. We are positive about the fact that the supervision has shown that the state administration sector has taken the necessary steps to properly meet the requirements arising from the legal provisions, but on the other hand it concerns the fact that in the sector of local and regional self-government some cities have not done so and that personal data protection is still lacking, and there is a similar situation in the part of economic operators. However, it encourages that irregularities identified by the Agency's order have been removed. Positively, we keep surveillance findings in the financial sector, where some of the banks and insurance companies and pension funds are monitored, and in the field of information security and the implementation of technical safeguards, personal data in information systems, which has shown that a high level of information security has been achieved. However, it concerns the fact that surveillance in some cultural institutions, hotels, dormitories, homes for elderly and powerless persons, as well as tourist agencies, has not been established in the databases. We therefore believe that, with the strengthening of the Agency's capacity, it will contribute to increasing awareness of the importance of the protection of personal data. I will conclude that the agency carried out what it was obliged to do and that it increased cooperation with the other and was the Institute and other institutions, were citizens, and this must have contributed to the increase of awareness in its work. Therefore, the HSS Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56399	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56400	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorary representative of the agency, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support that annual work report for 2009 of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. Namely, we have before us an annual report from the agency to be delivered to the Croatian Assembly on the basis of the provision of Article. 31. The law on the protection of personal data. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Data Protection Act of the Data Protection Agency shall carry out the following tasks as public authorities: it shall monitor the implementation of the protection of personal data, indicate monetary abuses by collecting personal data, draw up a list of countries and international organisations that have adequate... personal data, resolves the submission of requests to determine infringements of the right guaranteed by law, maintains central registers that unite units in personal data collections supplied by collection managers in accordance with the law, as well as in accordance with Article 33 of the law, the Agency shall carry out other tasks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Agency’s working resources shall be provided by virtue of Article 6(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 28. Law on the protection of personal data from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The report adequately described cooperation with EU bodies on the EU accession process as well as the review of the conferences, a workshop attended by agency representatives. During 2009, surveillance was carried out in the following sectors: local and regional (regional) self-government, finance, economy, trade, culture, education, health care, social care, telecommunications and others. In addition to the above-mentioned controls during 2009, the Agency has also resolved a number of subjects covering the following areas: harmonisation of legislation, EU accession,... transfer of personal data, projects, internal acts, proposals, amendments to regulations, etc. The examinations of the above entities mainly referred to similar topics as in the previous reporting period, and the Agency adopted opinions, recommendations, instructions and answers from a number of areas. An analysis of the number of official controls carried out in certain sectors shows that the Agency paid particular attention in 2009 to the protection of personal health data because the previous reporting periods have identified violations of the law and inadequate technical protection of personal data on health institutions. In addition, according to its 2009 work conclusions, the Agency carried out all its obligations to give an opinion on the proposals of laws and sublegislative acts, made requested reports from its work area, processed and responded to all requests for protection of rights against privacy violations, and strengthened co-operation with all institutions and associations of citizens where there were needs and opportunities for joint action. However, as the report points out, all objectives and tasks have not been fully achieved. As it points out, raising citizens' awareness, increasing the responsibility of the obligation to protect application and privacy, increasing information security, education of young people on the importance of this area and good and effective action to fulfil their obligations as future EU members are the main and upcoming tasks in the coming period. It is evident from the above that the report for the previous year of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is complete and comprehensive and will be accepted as such by the HDZ club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56401	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56402	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the agency, colleagues and colleagues. The Agency shall be an independent control body in the field of the protection of personal data. The report shall cover the Agency’s work segments correctly and shall provide descriptions and numerical indicators of the Agency’s work in the fields of international activity, giving the Agency’s opinion on the laws and international contracts which treat or touch the protection of personal data, supervision of bodies participating in data processing segments or having records and personal data collections. The Agency shall act on a request for the protection of rights. We cannot apply here that only the report is structured in a similar manner to the report by the Ombudsman and has the ambition to present the agency as the guardian of a segment of human rights entrusted to it. The report shows that 26 people are doing this job and that in last 2009 they spent nearly 6 million kunas on their work and activities. The HNS Club understands that the next process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the subsequent commitments to bring the legislative framework and some other international obligations make it necessary to have an independent body of supervision in the field of the protection of personal data. However, after careful reading of this report, especially the parts describing the activities that the Agency has dealt with and the numerical indicators of the work done, it seems to us that we need to conclude a few things. The amount of work carried out by the Agency, the costs incurred in the budget, and the number of employees in the Agency suggest that the Agency is pre-named. Only the report relating to the scale of the Agency's work acts as a good example of metastasised bureaucracy. We think that the government should consider, as soon as possible, the internal structure of the Agency, the number of employees and the resources it allocates from the budget for these activities, and come up with a proposal to re-establish the Agency as one of the measures to reduce public spending in the economic recovery programme. For the above reasons, the HNS Club of HSU will be retained around this Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56403	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Franjo Lacko Director of the Agency, please choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56404	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I would briefly look back and thank you for the club presentations, but there's something I can agree on. As far as the SDP Club is concerned, the Agency is not independent. I have to say here that we simply wouldn't, so we're in the screening, watching the Union, we wouldn't have been admitted into any organization if we hadn't proved our independence. When it comes to that register, then I have to say it's still a legal question, when it comes to the Agency, Alija Rajko, therefore, in an informationer magazine where everyone was allowed and allowed to report whether something was wrong there, confirmed by the fact that the Agency had rightly given, and stated those opinions, so that it could not be done without a change of law. So I'm sorry that the Agency is not and can't decide if it's really going to be published. I would like to thank the representative of the HSS Club and I agree that it is an area in which we have not done everything we have to do, so it is our permanent task to increase citizens' awareness but I must say it is constantly in the upward trend and today when we take in 2005, it is rare who even knew that the agency was starting, so now it is known but I acknowledge the lack of awareness of citizens, we need to work on it more. And in the end, I would say, when it comes to the HNS's representative that you believe I wanted to present here to you, but in the end I had to give up, the company of the number of employees, in agencies, so to the offices, and so to protect Europe's data, because that's the only measure. Then I finally quit because the first and first things that they give me off the record, you go online, you can't get that data, so one Poland, is a big country, but 125 people, Czechoslovakia 104. This way by the number of employees, I claim there is one single country that I would admit is more rational than Croatia, which is Finland, however, none of the other by population is. We are at 5, 6 approximately equal, so Finland, I'm not going in as they could have been 17, and you know Macedonia already has as many Croatia without saying a number of others. Therefore, I think that the Agency must be subject to any verification, therefore the Government has the opportunity to see and, if anything can be added, rationalize, however, I am happy to point it out, always inserting the budget inside to see that from space, to the number of people, everything that really works out fine. There are no more officials who can't even drink coffee at the agency's expense, and with resources, we act as rationally as possible. From my own resources, I have singled out the part that Croatia should normally give from this big project, the biggest project that the Union has given to a country in the field of protection of personal data, is the project that Croatia has received. Refunds worth a million and 900 thousand euros. And Croatia is really a savings agency. But I don't think there's any reason to see it again and again. Dear MPs and MPs thank you for seeing, after all, the interest in following that report, someone even said that, compared it to the Attorney General's Report, believe that in this great grip to someone we have about the projects, I haven't seen at all. However, we are glad to be recognized. Yes, we must not hide the ambition to respond to everything in the field of personal data protection, but I admit we will have to explain more what we can do. So, if we were to conclude in this country that it means so much protection is needed to hire us even then we'll be able to talk about it in order to raise the identity theft and a number of other things to a higher level, but believe me, with the resources we've tried to respond to all the demands that stand before the Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56405	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56406	We are going to the 2009 Personal Data Protection Agency report. The applicant shall be the Personal Data Protection Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting in the conclusion that: a report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2009 is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 81 votes for, 8 abstentions and 29 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56407	We're moving to the third item of the agenda. This is - The proposal for a decision appointing members of the Water Services Council has been proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 217. Water law. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Krmek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, let me say a few words about the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Water Services Council. As is already known, at the end of 2009, we passed two very important laws for the water economy, the Water Law and the Water Economy Financing Act, and in these laws we defined that we would have an independent water service regulator in the form of a Water Services Council. What should also be said in particular, which is that this council is established to ensure legality in the area of the pricing of water services and also the fees for development and compensation for accession in the area of cities and municipalities and in the domain of decision-making by city or municipal councils. What should also be said is that the Water Services Council will also propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia sublaws which will define what is most important of all, which is the lowest basic price of water services and also all kinds of costs that can be covered from this price of water services. It is also important to point out that the Water Services Council will also propose sublegal acts defining the economic business criteria of those dealing with municipal activities within cities and municipalities. To be exact, these are urban waterways which will be here, together with city councils or municipal councils, also have to respect the operating standards that are important for the prices of water services to be based on criteria, so that citizens pay the price of water services under these sublegal acts to be passed. The Water Services Council will also have the possibility that if a city or municipality council makes an illegal decision that it will also be able to reach a solution to suspend such a decision. In the end, I also want to say that as far as the people themselves are concerned, who will be in this Water Services Council, we have made sure that these are people who have the necessary knowledge so that they can make these very, very important decisions. We also made sure that there were representatives of the government or the ministry responsible for water management. There is also a representative of environmental protection, a representative of the Ministry of Finance and what is also important, that there are representatives and associations of counties, associations of cities, and the same association of municipalities. There are also representatives of those who pay these fees, so the representatives of the economy, as well as the representatives of the water supply. And what I would like to say in the end, in particular, to point out that after your decision, this Water Services Council will also be obliged to submit a report on the work, because it will receive your mandate in the next four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56409	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56410	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The Water Act of last year, since 2009, which states that this Council should be established for the purpose of ensuring legality in the area of the pricing of water services and in the Water Law for Development and Association Compensation for the Law governing the financing of the water economy. We at the SDP club will not support this proposal, not because it is not based on the law, not because perhaps the people who are here are not professional enough, however, and who deserve to be in that council if they are necessary. The reason why we will not support the appointment of members of the Water Services Council is primarily a thrifty reason. If we listen to both the prime minister and the government's representatives these days that all areas must be spared, if we participate in and listen to the fact that spending in Croatia is extremely large and that there will have to be serious cuts if we think somewhere at the end of such consumption. It's obvious, then, that this is one of the Council of Orders that would deal with these affairs the way it says here at this point is really not necessary. If we hear that and regret that this has not already been done, cuts will be made and about the unnecessary agencies that we have a certain number, if these days we hear that we will have to fire or that 5% of the people in the state administration will be fired, then we feel it is unnecessary to set up a Water Services Council at this point. Why is that? Since members of that Council are appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament and the Council's work resources, I repeat the Council's work resources and the Council's professional support tasks shall be provided by the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. So when translated, then this means that these people, nine, will have some compensation for working in the Council, that professional support and professional work of the Council will be given by people from the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. If this were to be translated in my humble knowledge it would turn out that in the area of the legality of the pricing of water services, in the area of the accession fee from the Water Economy Financing Act, it would be done professionally, I repeat professional people in the ministry and then call on the Council to sit down and then this Council confirms that it is okay or that it is wrong. It really seems to me that at this moment when we are faced with serious problems and demands that serious cuts are made in Croatia that it is really unnecessary to name now another burden that we will again end up with if it turns out to be necessary and necessary to cut it. I repeat, this Council was to be established under the law. We're the law if I'm not mistaken, we passed last year. This is a little more than, less than a year when this Council should be established. And I haven't heard anywhere that there have been illegalities in the area of pricing water services, because it's obvious that then and only the ministry did their job properly. Because there's too many people out there. Then we don't need these people in the ministry, if we need a council to do this, then we don't need people in the ministry, especially if we appoint professional people on this proposal. In fact, we also appoint people who work in, both in this ministry and in some other ministries and in some other institutions and institutions. I'm afraid it's necessary from the word to interfere with actions, so that, finally, if the crisis is as it is, and it is, that we try to save at every step of the work, and not just on words. For this reason, we will not support the appointment of council members, I repeat not because they are not good, they are not professional, but because at this point it is unnecessary because we will face the fact that we will have to cut, repeat and fire those 5% or do not know how many more people in the state administration. Well, then, as all these professional jobs have done well so far, we think that should be the case. So you should be saving not only in words and action. It's been since I was a kid. So let's say Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, here's an example of how we can save in the Croatian Parliament even though it's not tied up, but let me say it. On Thursday, 08.07. at 17:30 and 9 p.m., we received this many papers, papers, probably all parliamentary representatives in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia informs us that instead of Prof. Dr. Ivan Šimonovic is to appoint new Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic as representative. Remember, we had that set of laws on amendments and additions to the Court Act. Here, it was perhaps necessary for you to tell us orally instead of one minister who left will be the second minister, not to print so many papers and not share 150 such papers by the benches of the Croatian Parliament. It would be a small contribution to begin and save on such things, and then people would realize that we are really going to save on every step in the Croatian Parliament and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and from little things it begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56411	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56412	We move on to a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Water Services Council. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Water Services Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal for appointing was accepted by the majority of votes, 85 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 31 against, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56413	Moving to point 4. This is - Statute of the Agency for Electronic Media Proposer: The electronic media agency Proposing the act is the Agency for Electronic Media on the basis of Article 66. The law on electronic media. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was held by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Does a government official want to explain the proposal? Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. First, the clubs are next and this is the HSS club, the distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56414	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, representatives of the Government and the Agency. The fact is that we in Croatia have had a long process of creating laws that will regulate media issues and now it seems that we are slowly finishing and approaching the goal. It shows that we have also achieved a certain level of democratic maturity as a society. The Council for Electronic Media was established by the Law on Electronic Media in 2003 as an independent and independent legal person with public authority. In 2007, there is an amendment to the Law on Electronic Media, where the Agency for Electronic Media is also established. At the end of last year, a new Law on Electronic Media has entered into force, which has given the Agency additional obligations and therefore requires strengthening of its capacities accordingly, the monitoring service has also been strengthened. The funds financed by the Agency's work are provided in accordance with the annual financial plan, up to 0.5% of the total annual gross income, which were achieved by electronic media publishers in the previous year by carrying out radio-television activities. Such funding enables the Agency to be independent, whose decisions are not affected by any other interests economically or politically. The media, through a picture that they provide, form a public opinion, except that they convey information, and therefore it is not a matter of who has access to this space, and whether that influence will benefit rather than the interest of Croatian citizens for their own material breakthrough or for the achievement of another goal. This is why we believe in the HSS club that it is extremely important to insist on the public ownership, and to monitor changes in ownership structure over radio stations and television stations. Today, media editors and journalists are increasingly under pressure from large-scale capital, and as their work provides marketing activities with revenue from sales of advertising space, the question is how much can they actually get rid of them. We know that journalists who have done the job of investigative journalism have been publicly told by the public, have been rewarded by firing. It should be taken into account when considering the allocation of funds for the programme content of the pluralism fund and the diversity of electronic media, on the programme content supported, as those software content that can seriously endanger the physical, mental or moral development of minors is rarely financed, which is unacceptable. It is particularly sensitive to the protection of children's identity, whether they are victims, whether they are perpetrators, and this is also required by the rules on how television broadcasters act in order to protect minors. However, as the practice shows, the identity of the child, especially when it comes to the smaller environment, is difficult to remain unknown, which also contributes to further victimization. During the debate on the report on the work of the Council and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2008 which was recently held in the Croatian Parliament, despite the adoption of a regulation on how television broadcasters act to protect minors, there is no indication of how much of its provisions are respected, or how they are violated. The fact is that violence, but also other children and young people, inappropriate content is what they want me to say from all sides. It is certainly difficult to monitor everything because it is also up to the publishers, not only to respect the law, but also elemental ethics, and there is a particular need to highlight Internet portals on which inappropriate content can hardly be avoided. Without questioning the freedom of the media, we believe that systematic monitoring is needed, because we would be sure that there are more warnings then, and thus such publishers would be more difficult to access by means of funds from the fund. On the other hand, because of the desire to communicate information as quickly as possible, and thus obtaining a better position related to marketing advertising, there is also a rough entry into the privacy of public persons, or of persons who have shown their work in a field. The worst is to publish incorrect, false information that violates the reputation and dignity of that person. I don't want to talk about names here, but somehow it seems to me that, to say the hunt for something that will question the public image of that person is stronger than the person the public has a positive picture of, because success has achieved by its own work, often with great denials and sacrifices. The complaint to which this person may react to the publication of such content is, however, too little satisfaction when it appears that because of the desire to be active, it is imperative to be the first person to publish the affected ethics of journalism as a profession, which nevertheless requires that some information be verified before it is published. It would be suggested that there are more emissions dealing with not only problems, but also positive examples of people with disabilities as well as those dealing with environmental protection, because sensitisation for others who are in need, as well as the need to change our relationship with nature and the environment, is an integral part of the education for sustainable development, which, as stated in the Sustainable Development Strategy, Croatia is seeking, and in which the role of the media is of great importance. The Croatian Peasant Party's club, along with these proposals and certain remarks, will support the report ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56415	It is next to the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. So here is the statute of the Electronic Media Agency, which was delivered to the Croatian Assembly by the Electronic Media Agency. And I must point out that we have received the first text of the statutes to which the Government has expressed certain objections, after which the Electronic Media Agency has brought the statutes into line with the Government's stated observations and thus amended, or a harmonised statute, to the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with that Statute, it therefore draws closer to it the name and headquarters of the Agency for Electronic Media, the Agency's bodies, their appointments and resolution, their powers, their work, the Agency's work, the Agency's professional services, their structure and other issues of importance for the Agency's work. The Agency is an independent and independent, independent legal person with public authority who must be registered in the Court of Justice of the Commercial Court, its founder is the Republic of Croatia, and the founding rights are exercised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so except in cases where they are exercised by the Croatian Parliament under the Law on Electronic Media and this Statute. The HDZ Club believes that such a harmonised statute is good with the government's remarks. The government has also given its opinion and has no objection to such a statute, so the Croatian Democratic Community club agrees with each statute and supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56417	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrades and colleagues, gentlemen of the Council of Electronic Media. I would like to say on behalf of the SDP Club that we support not only the adoption of this statute, but also your efforts, so your work through the Electronic Media Agency to sort of introduce order into the media space. Here someone said that unfortunately a large part of the media, and even television that is financed from the subscription is quite prone, so they are all somehow inclined to fight with all possible means for their viewers. Those who are commercially oriented, of course, for their incomes and for their earnings. However, the fact is that there must be some mechanisms in every society, including us, which will nevertheless be a little bit of a corrective factor and a little bit of a line when the desire for profit is stronger than the distortion of the interest of a particular population in society. So I may be more focused here on the issue of child and youth protection where the Council of Electronic Media has made great efforts and I think that this House has somehow recognized it because before, it seems to me, a month or two, a thematic joint session of two committees has been held. The Committee on Information and Media and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport where we discussed in fact how much TV in Croatia and in general the media protects the interests and rights of children and how they affect their development. The media has a terrible influence on the development of children. Children need a lot more energy, they say up to 3 times more energy, to accept negative content, violent content than to accept positive content. It should therefore be affected every time by these violent content as little as possible. We therefore support the provisions and behaviour of the Council for Electronic Media, which requires that the protected space for children be increased to 23 hours to protect children from violent content by that time. We also support the requirement that all emissions that are not suitable for children of a certain age should be marked with a age limit that may be seen and, therefore, this type of emissions and so that all emissions are adequately marked to be a sort of guide and children, as well as their parents. And finally, it should be said that this Council of Electronic Media has some mechanisms to force televisions to protect certain categories, here is primarily a word, or my emphasis on children. Therefore, from specific warnings to the possibility of taking them for a certain period of time and concessions. Here's a mechanism that can give some results and can really do a little bit of order. But, it should be said that today in our media space not only are movies aggressive, unfortunately all the information shows have become quite aggressive because when you have 3 contributions in one information show in a row that says that one was found here killed and another one was butchered, then the third one is further talked about how the body parts were cut off and so, indeed, the information emissions in its content have become often aggressive and violent and should be taken into account. I'm not sure that all this information to us right up to the details is of interest, and I don't know if we need all that information so vitally. Maybe there's a lot more information that citizens need to get through public information, than the details that we often get from information shows and even when it comes to car accidents, and then it's said that someone was being pulled out by firefighters, so here's a series of information that can really affect children and young people, and it seems to me sometimes a little bit to all of us. Therefore, the role of the Electronic Media Council is high, and for that reason, in all your actions, I think you have the support of the SDP club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56419	Thank you. It's next to the HNS-HSU club, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56420	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the agency, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a document that has experienced two editions. The first of the 04.03, which was withdrawn because of the shortcomings the Government has expressed in its opinion, and the second since 09.04, which also has some shortcomings, we will say something about it. A few words only about areas that are closer to this statute. Therefore, the name and head office of the Agency for Electronic Media, Agency bodies, their appointment and resolution, their powers, rights and obligations, the Agency's work, the Agency's professional service, its organisation and other issues of importance for the Agency's work. In the government's opinion, the agency has accepted some things, and some things have not. It seems to us that two important things are not accepted, so I'm going to say a few words about it today. But first I'm going to mention an article. 8. The statute where the provision is laid down that the director of the agency has a deputy. I'm surprised and I don't know why you didn't accept the government's position and opinion, and we agree that this matter should be formulated in the light of a special article. This has not happened, you do not even have a specific item in Article 8. What we think is much, much more important also stands. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Media shall be submitted to the Director of the Agency by the Annual Report on the Agency's work to the Croatian Parliament. In relation to that provision, it is not in accordance with the provisions of Article 8(2) of the Statute which prescribes that the Director proposes a report on the work of the Agency. We don't understand why you didn't adopt this attitude and the government's remarks? Furthermore, Article 8(2) does not specify the amount of the Director’s own financial resources by a particular business for the purposes of current business? I will ask you to answer these questions and according to these answers will also be the HNS-HSU's position on the statute of the Electronic Media Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56421	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one is a respected representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56422	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I will be very brief since, on behalf of the clubs, the colleagues have already said more or less what this refers to, so the proposed statute refers to the organisational structure of the agency, the way of management, the mechanisms of financing and others. The bodies of the Agency shall be: Director of the Agency and of the Council of Electronic Media, and the Director shall represent, represent the Agency and shall be responsible for the work of the Agency’s professional services. As far as the principal is concerned, something on the trail of what the colleague was saying, so among other things. The 30th Statute is regulated that the Agency may, by decision of the Director of the Agency, conclude legal work if the value of the transaction does not exceed 30 thousand kuna. Among other things, what is defined by the proposed Statute are the bodies of the Agency, the activity, the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, the Agency’s professional service, the property and financial operations of the Agency, then cooperation with trade unions, the public of work, which is of course extremely important. The Agency for Electronic Media began its work in 2008 as the first follower of the Council for Electronic Media and the first statute of the Agency is right here in the Croatian Parliament, confirmed on 14 March and 13 March 2008 the debate was held and the first Statute of the Agency was confirmed. Last December 29th, a new Law on Electronic Media entered into force, and in Article 87, he obliged the Electronic Media Agency to bring its Statute of the Agency into line with the provisions of the new Law, so here we are in the Croatian Parliament to confirm it. In any case, I would simply like to draw attention to Article 24 which is actually defined as other Council affairs, I think that this is extremely important, so the Council reports to the European Commission in accordance with the law and other regulations, encourages media literacy, organises public consultations and expert meetings, and conducts research on specific issues in the field of electronic media and decides on the complaints or complaints of the Agency’s staff to the Agency’s solutions to their rights and obligations and objections to members of the Council, non-determination of their rights of conduct. I think that all that was said and by colleagues who spoke before me, that can only direct us to what, that's what we want in the Croatian media space for the media to be independent but of course all that is prescribed by the law to be regulated and supervised by the Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56423	Thank you. Dear Representative Karolina Leaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56424	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Leviaq, in fact, for the support that has come so far from the ranks of parliamentary representatives, the work of the Council or the Electronic Media Agency, but I would also like to take this opportunity to ask you a few questions that I think really represent the interest of Croatian citizens, first of all, I would like to refer to the implementation of Article 23(7). The Law on Electronic Media which speaks of the programming basis of television or radio publishers on the basis of which the concession is given, as well as its amendments are therefore public and published on the website of the Council for Electronic Media, and since I have failed to find the programming bases, in particular television with a national concession, or... publishers with a national concession, I would ask you to answer my question whether these programming bases have been published and if they are not, why they are not, or when you will publish them. In particular, this is in relation to Article 15(8) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. The Statute of the Electronic Media Agency which speaks of the Council’s publication on its website of the information prescribed by law, the Report on its work, says it can publish other information and other acts. So, just when it comes to the award of the concession, here I mentioned television publishers with a national concession, I think that the procedure, or that the programme bases on which the concession was granted, would really have to be publicly known. I would also like to have a public debate on this, because until recently, a national concession TV reporter got a concession for 15 years, which we learned from the news on that television. The new Law on HRT, which we will discuss if not today, certainly these days to the Croatian Parliament, gives the Council of Electronic Media great powers and, for example, in Article 24 for which there is an alternative, the Council for Electronic Media prescribes that by its decision it determines the procedure, way of choice, and the appointment of representatives in the Council of the HRT appointed by two or more associations as well as the composition of the Committee for the Implementation of the Appointing Procedures, I believe that it is truly important if this course article is adopted here an extremely important provision and important, or an important part of the work of the Council for Electronic Media. I hope that the Council has the financial and personnel or any other potential to respond to the extremely important powers to which it prescribes and gives a new proposal or a new HRT law when it is adopted. I would also like to draw attention to Article 43 of this new Bill on HRT, which speaks of the implementation of the Council for Electronic Media, the implementation of the provisions of the Croatian Law on HRT and the contract between the Croatian Government, which includes the supervision of the implementation of the programme obligations which constitute the content of the public service of the HRT, the adoption of the Decision on the introduction of new audiovisual services and the subsequent authorisation of HRT to launch a new radio or television programme channel, i.e. to carry out the activities and provision of audio and audiovisual services on request, etc., and it is extremely important that the Council for Electronic Media conducts supervision of the use of monthly fees and other public revenues in accordance with the rules on state aid for public broadcasting services. All of this is about an extremely important role that the Electronic Media Council has to play and in this sense that, if sufficient funds or sufficient human resources are not already provided, it should certainly do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56425	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56426	4, we move to the Statute of the Electronic Media Agency. Proposer of the Electronic Media Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting to confirm the statutes of the Electronic Media Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This agency statute was adopted unanimously by 115 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56427	We're going to point 5. - Proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 41(1) of Article 42. Law on ownership and other real rights ("National Journal" No. 91/96, 68/98, 137/99, 22/., 73/00, 114/06, 146/08, 38/09. and 153/09.) Proposer: Legislative Committee. The Committee has proposed this Decision pursuant to Article 173(3). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail, the debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. No one's reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56428	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Laws on ownership and other real rights, National No. 91/96, 68/98, 137/99, 22, 63, 114/06. and 146/08,... Proposer of the Legislative Committee. [[You don't understand.]] The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision not to give a credible interpretation, as I have already read. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for a decision was accepted by a majority of 110 votes in favour, one abstention and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56429	Now we move to point 6, I suggest that point 6 and point 7 come together and we discuss them together. Doesn't God mind? There isn't. So we can discuss point 6 and point 7 together. So - Proposal for a law on Croatian Radio, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 586. - Proposal for a law amending the Law on Croatian Radio Television, first reading, P.Z. No. 559. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the materials by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Nina Obuljen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56430	Mr. Vice President, thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs. You have before you a draft bill on HRT. The creation of a new Law on HRT started at the end of 2009 by setting up a Working Group at the Ministry of Culture, and for the purpose of harmonising the applicable Law on HRT with the legal virtue of the European Union in the field of competition protection, in particular by harmonising with the provisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the publication of State aid rules for public broadcasting services. The basic objectives of adopting this new law can be summarised in several basic points. So, firstly, the goal is to maintain, strengthen and affirm HRT as an independent and stable public service which is important for cultural and media diversity, for pluralism and for democracy. Ensure the conditions in which HRT will perform its public function without at the same time disrupting the competition because this law affects both directly and indirectly not only the HRT but also the entire market for electronic media in the Republic of Croatia. Ensure responsible and stable management of HRT and financial stability of HRT in accordance with the Croatian tradition and recommendations of the European Union. The coordination is therefore carried out with the European Commission’s statement on the application of State aid rules for public broadcasting services, the European Commission’s Directive on the transparency of financial relations between Member States and public entrepreneurs, the Law on Electronic Media adopted by this Parliament at the end of last year, and the strategy for switching from analogue to digital broadcasting of television programmes in the Republic of Croatia. Let me explain in the opening very briefly what are the basic requirements for harmonisation, which concern the legal gains of the European Union in the field of competition. Therefore, as public television receiving the fee, HRT was entrusted with meeting the public service obligations which must be clearly determined by the State. Then, in advance, in an impartial and transparent manner, the criteria for calculating the amount of public service compensation, to address the issue of double-financing of HRT and to introduce supervision of the body controlled by HRT in carrying out the contractual commitments undertaken. On the draft Law on Croatian Radio Television, a working group was working on which representatives of associations and interested public were involved. The text put forward for a public debate in April this year is the result of a number of consultations and on a number of issues the representatives of the associations have reached consensus. I would like to stress here that the document announcing the public debate sets out exactly the issues that the working group did not reach a consensus on, some of which remained open after the public debate, so the government sent several articles to the Assembly in alternatives. The public hearing lasted a month. During the discussion, the Ministry of Culture received over 40 proposals and opinions on the text of the draft proposal, and a number of round tables were held on the subject. We have also received opinions from the central authorities of the state administration and other bodies on the draft bill, and we have all these opinions to the extent that we have tried to put into this proposal that is before you. Following the end of the public debate, the text has been revised in detail and addressed to the European Commission. In their opinions of 24 June this year, the General Directorate for Information Society and Media and the General Competition Administration gave a positive assessment of all several technical proposals to improve the text of the law which has been considered and incorporated into the proposal before you. The draft law regulates the status of HRT as a public institution which the Republic of Croatia undertakes to carry out the activities of providing public broadcasting services. The draft law does not regulate itself as the organisation of the HRT so far but in accordance with the practice in most European countries, but also in most public institutions, it leaves it to the Statute of the HRT. Article 3 defines public activity, and Article 2(2) of Article 3 provides for the launch of two new specialized television channels and, in accordance with the strategy of switching from analogue to digital broadcasting of television programmes in the Republic of Croatia. They are arranged much more precisely than they have ever been before and the launch of new services. What is important is that this proposal also defines the commercial activity as set out in Article 4 of the Law. Part of the law relating to the programming principles of relying on guidelines and ideas of the applicable law, with the new statement being improved and in line with some proposals from the public debate. The definition of the content and functions of public services is one of the central parts of this law. The draft law sets out the detailed arrangements for HRT services and provides for the conclusion of contracts between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will cover the programme commitments of the HRT in the five-year period, as well as the financial framework of its business. This precisely defined content of the public service is an obligation to comply with the law on state aid, but it will certainly allow for a much better quality of work by all HRT bodies, especially by programme and financial supervision bodies. The scope of the public function is significantly broader than the current law, and it is envisaged to carry out a public value test for all services provided by HRT. The treatment of the so-called so-called treatment is particularly arranged. premium sports or high commercial sports and conditions for the possible launch of specialized TV channels dedicated to sport. As regards Articles 10, 11 and 12, it is a matter of compliance with the Electronic Media Act. So these are articles that regulate quotas for Croatian audiovisual works, i.e. European works and works of independent producers. These issues are discussed in detail in the public debate and the proposal that is before you is a compromise, if I may say so, between HRT representatives and representatives of producer associations. The introduction of the contract is certainly one of the biggest newspapers of this law. We have relied on a European model such as many countries, most likely the BBC Charter, Belgium, Denmark, etc., and I must stress that there was no dispute on this issue within the working group. The contract defines the programme obligations of the HRT and the amount and source of funding for them, and the contract contains the type, scope and content of all public services provided by the HRT under this Act. It is signed by HRT and the Government with an important role of the programme council and mandatory public debate. The contract is scheduled to be signed for five years, with the first contract signed for three years, as we assume it would be very difficult to draw up the first draft contract. Furthermore, the text also includes a number of fuses in case the contract is not signed, in case it applies as only a regulatory act in the part in which it will not be contrary to the State aid rules. The existence of a contract will surely ensure that the Programme Council can perform its functions better because there will be a contract with certain clear criteria for fulfilling its public function. This should ensure better organisation and planning on HRT, more transparent spending on funding, but also the possibility that the public who makes HRT exist knows exactly what it pays and what service it can expect for those funds. HRT bodies shall be arranged and that is the part in which certain articles sent to the Parliament for first reading in alternatives. An administration with a president and two members shall be established to appoint a programme board and a supervisory board at a joint session as one body to a two-thirds majority on the basis of a public tender. The HRT administration manages and manages work and business and develops proposals for the work programme, the financial plan and others. The Croatian Supervisory Board has five members, of which four members are appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a public call for a proposal from the Government, and one member is appointed by the HRT Working Council. The HRT Supervisory Board shall have broad powers with regard to the control of financial operations by adopting a financial plan, approving general acts on financial operations, wages, material salaries and fees, approving the availability of HRT assets and giving prior consent to the conclusion of a loan or loan contract. The Programme Council shall have 15 members directly appointed by the institutions and civil society associations. An alternative is provided for the selection of the programme council, according to which the programme council has 11 members and is elected by the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a public call issued by the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. This is a solution found in the existing Law by improving the provisions on banning and preventing conflicts of interest and provisions governing that a certain number of members of the Programme Council must come from certain areas. The Programme Council shall monitor the implementation of the programming principles and obligations set out in the Law and the Treaty, and shall also appoint the editor-in-chiefs-in-chiefs on the proposal of the Administration after the tender procedure and the opinions of the editors and journalists obtained. As I have already pointed out on the committees the way in which the programme council was elected and the administration's appointments were the subject of which, during the public debate, raised the greatest interest but around which there was a lot of opposition. The government therefore accepted a proposal from the Ministry of Culture to send these articles in alternative to what we had committed during the debate, with this House of Higher Education giving its opinion on these proposed alternatives. If it decides on the direct choice model of civil society representatives, we will advocate and we will send such a proposal to another reading to keep the proposed model of the joint body. So, supervisory boards and program boards that would elect management. If the decision is to elect members of the programming council according to the current model with the already integrated improvements I mentioned, it will certainly be necessary to consider this model of the joint body which, in that case, loses its function. The proposal for a new Act regulates the resources for the work of both HRT and the exercise of supervision in such a way as to continue to benefit from both commercial revenues and advertising in order to carry out its activities. The fee shall be paid by anyone who has radio and television reception, i.e. another reception device for radio or audiovisual programmes in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and is obliged to pay HRT this fee except in cases provided for by the Law. The amount of the monthly fee shall be up to 1.5% of the average net monthly salary, based on the statistics for the previous year. The amount of the monthly fee for each year shall be determined by its decision of the HRT Supervisory Board, with the prior approval of the Electronic Media Council, that the fee is in accordance with the contract, i.e. in accordance with the rules on State aid. There was a lot of discussion on the issue of the tax in the media, but also on the committees, and in particular on the proposal to charge taxes in one part, which is part of the bond records that do not comply with their obligation to collect electricity. This is a model recommended in a document called the Law on Public Broadcasting Services, which can be found as information from the European Radio Diffusion Association. However, due to technological progress, it is increasingly difficult to maintain stable funding, relying solely on television and radio receptions, at a time when many other receivers especially computers, mobile phones, become devices on which they can monitor all programs and receive all services as well as classic televisions or radios. With regard to the observations that the fee will have to be paid by those who are unable to receive a signal whether digital or analogue, I stress that this will not be the case because the signing of a declaration for those who do not use these services is envisaged. As I said, there is anticipation of advertising in the time of 9 minutes, with it being on television channels, with the projected to limit advertising between 18 and 22 hours to 6 minutes in prime time. An alternative is also foreseen, which prohibits full advertising on specialized television channels. In order to exercise control over the use of public income, separate accounts for public revenues are introduced and the HRT prescribes that its commercial activity must be carried out in accordance with the rules on competition. HRT shall not use charges and other public revenues to finance the commercial activity of the so-called so-called business. cross-subsidisation, HRT may retain an annual excessive fee above the net cost of carrying out public service activities of up to 10% of the annual financial plan of recognised budgetary costs. These are all provisions directly related to compliance with competition rules. This also applies to external supervision of the implementation of this law, which is entrusted to the Council for Electronic Media, as an independent regulator and provides for the responsibilities of the HRT in breach of the legal provisions. Finally, let me take this opportunity to thank all individuals, experts, all representatives of associations who worked together with the Ministry of Culture on the draft of this text. We held a number of consultations and meetings, often in difficult conditions, in a heated atmosphere, with numerous accusations, but also many commendations. We tried to hear all the comments and suggestions. Of course, it is difficult to come up with a text that would satisfy all stakeholders, but you have before you a draft law that, with the positive opinion of the European Commission, has the largest support of associations and experts, and the proposals for a number of solutions that we propose have come precisely from these same associations and experts. The government points out this law in two readings, although it is a condition for the closure of Chapter 8 of the competition protection, because we expect that after the discussion, the text will be improved, and that after the second reading, the Parliament will pass a law that will ensure that HRT as an independent public media better fulfils its function, and the supervisory authorities both programme and financial according to clear parameters and criteria follow the work of HRT. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56431	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The information committee and A committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the distinguished representative of Roksandić. [[No, no. The Croatian Committee.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56432	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the Committee on the Croatians at its meeting to discuss this proposed law and we want to present some of our proposals regarding the law, so we have answered. In the discussion, the board members stressed the importance of Croatian broadcasting as a public service that has a legal obligation to connect the Republic of Croatia with Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. The board members also reminded of our thematic session that we had, and it was related to the position and monitoring of issues and lives of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. We also showed the expectation that this legislative proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in line with the constitutional obligation towards Croats in the world, will ensure changes in order to ensure that the programme content of HRT intended for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is more extensive, diverse and broadcast in better terms. Several additions to this law have also been proposed. It is proposed to supplement Article 5 in the programming principles in a way that the provision that Croatian broadcasting must satisfy the interests of the Croatian public for the life of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as an interest of Croats living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, on all important issues relating to the Republic of Croatia. Also in the definition of the content and functions of public services in Article 9, a supplement to the provision under which Croatia will, I quote, produce and perform programmes aimed at informing members of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia in a way that instead of the term of information, will use an appropriate term to oblige Croatia to produce a full programme, including information, for members of Croatian people and their descendants in the world, and to include a programme intended for the public in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, relating to life, problems, events of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. In the opinion of the largest number of board members, and with the aim of ensuring better public representation and the monitoring of the programme in Article 25 of the Programme Council, we propose to install a provision that can be appointed as one member of the Croatian Association of Returnees or Croatian Associations operating outside the Republic of Croatia. After a debate was held with the majority of votes, 6 for, one against and one abstention, it was proposed to the Croatian Assembly to draw conclusions: the proposal for a Law on Croatian Television is accepted, the proposals are mentioned, i.e. The amendments and additions to Articles 5, 9 and 24 presented in the Committee's debate shall be addressed to the applicant with a request to be included in the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56433	Thank you. Anyone else want any of the board? No, I don't. Oh, yes, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić, the Committee for Information, Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed the session, held at the 27th session held on 8 July 2010, of the Proposal for a Law on Croatian Radio Television, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 1 July 2010. The Committee considered that proposal to be a home working body. In the opening explanation of the proposing representatives, she pointed out that the proposed law will bring HRT's work and business into line with the new Law on Electronic Media, and the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the publication of rules on state aid for public... services. [[You don't understand.]] It was held a public debate and an alternative was given for some articles, so that the first reading debate could lead to a better solution. Among other things, it defines the commercial activity that HRT can carry out, establishes the content and function of the public services of HRT, regulates the content and procedure of establishing the contract for the programme obligations of HRT concluded between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The selection procedure and the part-rounding of the HRT body, the HRT administration, the Supervisory Board and the HRT Programme Council shall be regulated. The resources for the operation of the HRT, payment of the monthly fee are also arranged, the content of the statutes as a general act of the HRT is prescribed, and the supervision of the work of the HRT is regulated. The discussion on the board drew attention to Article 14(5), where the contract between the Croatian Croatian and Croatian Government would cut down the opportunities of the Croatian HRT, as it regulates the content on the Croatian web portal that can serve exclusively for information on HRT, its programme, and give an overview of daily news that cannot go beyond the scope of the short reviews published in the daily newspapers and other magazines. As far as the Supervisory Board is concerned, it has been pointed out that it has been given a number of functions that are manageable, not supervisory functions. It is also stated that they do not have the sense of a joint session of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board because this is about 2 different functions of these bodies. The debate on alternatives to the election of members of the HRT Programme Council held the opinion that both alternatives had already been tested in practice and both proved to have shortcomings. In particular, it is not a good direct choice of members of individual institutions and associations because they could act as delegates of those structures from which they are selected. The opinion was also given that the alternative to Article 24 is good with possible improvements. It is thus proposed to add in paragraph 8 that at least one member must be elected as an expert representative of persons with disabilities. The alternative to Article 26(2) provides for a similar solution, such as in the applicable law, which is not satisfactory that the procedure for the termination of the term of office of the HRT Council members shall be initiated by the Croatian Council or by the Supervisory Board. The opinion was also expressed that HRT would be under constant pressure because the decision on the level of the tax is taken by the Supervisory Board, which makes it 5 members of which are elected on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and 1 is a member of the Working Council of the HRT. Furthermore, attention is drawn to the obligation to pay both any natural and legal person owned by a radio or TV receiver or another radio or audiovisual programme reception device, which is an obligation to pay electricity. And it is forgotten that the signal does not fully cover the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. The question arises what happens to those who pay for electricity and have no signal? The opinion is pointed out that a service which is not supplied cannot be charged. It is proposed to reduce the fee for disabled persons and certain categories to be free of charge. Especially those living below the poverty line and having it regulated by law. Finally, praise was given because the bill passed a public debate and will be discussed in 2 readings. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes, 7 votes against and 3 votes against, to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament: a proposal for the Law on HRT, any objections, opinions and proposals submitted in the debate will be adopted to the applicant in order to take into account the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56435	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Madam Secretary of State and Associates. The change in the regulation on public television is highly sensitive from the perspective of further improving democratic standards and media freedoms in Croatia, with an emphasis on HRT autonomy which is firmly linked to the imperative of transparent financing and public income management aimed at providing public services, a series of public software content of HRT. The process of making laws led by the Ministry of Culture was complemented by a public debate at the request of stakeholders and associations, and all were able to submit their observations which increased the adoption of more quality, more feasible and than the public's better-accepted solutions, and this area of discussion is still open because the law is in the first reading. I must say that in the HSS, too, we feel that it is necessary to sit down and talk about certain proposals in this law once more, and it is good that we have that time ahead and we will support the reference of this law to another reading. The draft law regulates the status of HRT as a public institution which the Republic of Croatia undertakes to carry out the activity of providing public broadcasting services. The draft law does not regulate the internal structure of the HRT; this is left to the Statute of the HRT, in accordance with most European countries. The proposal for a law sets out in detail what public services HRT provides and provides for Article 13 of the Treaty between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will more closely regulate the programme obligations of the HRT during the 5-year period as well as the financial framework of its operations. It's not quite clear what that means. Does this mean that, in addition to the fee and marketing space that the Croatian Government has, Croatian Government will pay additionally for the public service obligations that HRT performs under this law which does not seem acceptable to us? The payment of the subscription is a fee to HRT for the provision of public services, and is paid by all taxpayers and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and HRT from the fee to collect 1.2 billion kuna per year. Therefore, we believe that the additional financial obligations paid by the Government for public services to HRT do not have the basis. This proposal found that, in order to carry out its activities, HRT could benefit from fees and commercial revenues, i.e. advertising. Advertising on radio channels is limited to 9 minutes. Advertising on television channels is limited to 9 minutes, with advertising between 18 and 22 hours limited to 6 minutes. An alternative has also been provided for prohibiting advertising on specialized television channels. In order to exercise control over the use of public income, separate accounts for public revenues are introduced and the HRT prescribes that its commercial activity must be carried out in accordance with the rules on competition. This means that it must not lower the price of advertising in the purchase of the right to transfer sporting events, but must not offer a price above the market. We were contacted by representatives of NOVE-TV, RTL, EPH, Radio Antene, Novi List, NCL, Voice of Slavonia, Adriatic Media, Anima Media Zagreb, and made comments on the new Law on HRT, seeking to eliminate advertising on HRT programmes or at least reduce the duration of advertising in the general TV programmes of HRT. They requested a clear definition of the public service of HRT and a strict distinction from commercial activities, a limitation of the number of specialized TV channels and commercial activities of HRT, and the prevention of favouring HRT in the digitalisation process. Their position, I quote, is that "all media are victims of uncontrolled commercial activities of public television leading to the destruction of the media market, and the proposed Law on HRT will further deepen the crisis in the media and seriously endanger media pluralism in Croatia. The end of the quote. There are other thoughts that have come to us, which is a suggestion that the marketing space on HRT must not be reduced, that it should be clearly regulated because independent production survives exclusively thanks to HRT. Many experts have pointed out that they are aware that HRT cannot be a BBC that has no marketing space at all, but in order to be able to look up to Scandinavian countries and clearly limit the ability to advertise only at the time of broadcasting some special emissions that have exceptional importance and of public interest, such as transfer from the Olympics or similar content. HRT doesn't need to be economically weakened, but the HRT needs to be put in order, and that's clear to everyone. Commercial televisions should be given room to breathe and should not be questioned. Then where's the golden middle? We should all find her together. The fact is that it was visible in the financial part of the report on HRT's business that we received in March, which refers to 2008, that the marketing part of the HRT was a grey business zone, that even the committees that discussed it here in the Croatian Parliament expressed doubts about its credibility, that the media reported that the HRT under the real price was selling marketing space, and even the conclusions that HRT's business was on the verge of failure and that it was not in line with the law. Therefore, it is no surprise that a new institution is being introduced to control the financial operations of HRT, which is the Supervisory Board and we in the HSS support that provision. The Croatian Supervisory Board has five members, of which 4 members are appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a public call for a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and one member is appointed by the HRT Working Council. The HRT Supervisory Board shall have broad powers when it comes to the control of the financial operations of the HRT, so as to adopt the financial plan of the HRT, approve general acts on the financial operations of the HRT, general acts on salaries and other material rights of the HRT workers and compensations for external associates. It approves the availability of HRT assets and gives prior consent to the conclusion of a loan or loan contract. The Supervisory Board shall determine the amount of the monthly fee with the agreement of the Electronic Media Council. The state of the HTV programme itself is alarming. Everything and anything that cannot possibly be a public interest is broadcast and is contrary to what most citizens consider acceptable for broadcasting on public television. Of course, it should not be surprising that the situation is neither better on commercial televisions, because thanks to the broadcasting of certain unacceptable content as the media conveys, 70% of girls aged up to 9 years from Zagreb elementary schools declare that when they grow up they want to be Simona Gotovina. So much for the values that are being promoted in our media. It is more important to make efforts to ensure that HRT is a public service in the service of protection of the interests of all citizens, and a key role should be played in this by the new law and the Programme Council. The Programme Council shall monitor the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law and contract between the HRT and the Government and the HRT. It also appoints editors-in-chiefs on the proposal of the HRT administration after the tender procedure and the opinions of editors and journalists or other staff who are creatively involved in the creation of a programme for which the editor-in-chief will be responsible. The HRT Programme Council shall have 15 members directly appointed by the institutions and civil society associations. For the selection of the programme council, there is also an alternative to which the Programme Council has 11 members, and they are selected and resolved by the Croatian Assembly on the basis of a public call issued by the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Proposals for candidates may be made to the Committee by institutions, associations and citizens, with at least one member of the Council to be selected according to the professional criteria, from the order of experts on the media, journalists' professions, national minorities, professional advocates of the rights and needs of children, audio-visual experts proposed by professional associations, music experts proposed by professional associations and defenders' associations. Production and sale of quality software content of public interest, and what makes HRT exist, and what makes HRT set up, and that is what mission and vision are to be achieved – to raise the quality of the program at all levels. So, more quality program, played, documentary, children's, educational. Each of these projects must in advance justify its purpose, so that it is competitive in the common European market. There are forces on HRT that can achieve this. There are smart heads that can make it as they've done before. There are a lot of figures that testify that the situation on HRT is not normal, but all of this needs to be well analysed and set goals where we are going and within which time. And then according to the goals to make a quality plan and realize it. The prerequisite for this is of course a quality law and, as I said, the Club of Representatives of the HSS will support this law in the first reading and its reference to the second reading. I will also say a few sentences on the amendment of the HRT Act, which is also in the procedure and the debate is united. These amendments reduce the amount of tax paid by citizens for public service from 1.5% to 1.125% of the average net salaries of employees in Croatia. The tax would thus amount to 60 instead of 80 kuna so far, and it is estimated that Croatia's revenue will be reduced by 25% on the basis of these fees while the total revenues will be reduced by 20%. With this decision, HRT will run out of about 300 million kuna per year. Last year, HRT made about $1.2 billion out of the fee. The current level of tax is a significant burden for citizens in view of the current economic situation, and our view is that the tax should be brought into line with the reduced payment power of citizens. Since the adoption of the Law on HRT 2003, significant changes have taken place to date in terms of content, public television functions, and technological developments that are imminent. Also, the Law on Electronic Media allows HRT to produce and broadcast a specialized radio and television programme in order to achieve its role as public television. There have been significant changes in the internal organisation of public television in Europe, and a more functional approach is required to carry out activities in the new market circumstances of an increased number of commercial publishers, with the obligation to comply with State aid rules, and given the way in which public television is financed through tax and commercial revenues. Article 2 is replaced by the following: The final draft law is prescribed to enter into force on 1 August 2010. The amendment submitted by the Government on 17 June was arranged for the law to enter into force on 1 November 2010 in order to develop a programme for the reconstruction of Croatian broadcasting and a plan for the settlement of outstanding obligations to the state and suppliers, which is acceptable for us in the HSS, and we will support these amendments and additions to the HRT Act. Let me also say one of our fundamental objections which goes to the expense of the president of the Assembly Committee on Media who has not called for months a session of the Committee, which, despite the fact that the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in Croatian Radio and Croatian Television programmes did not also come to that session until last week. So, for almost 4 months, we have waited as representatives to discuss the report and for more than a month it has been waiting to discuss this amendment and supplement the Law on HRT and the new Law on HRT which we think is unacceptable to obstruct the work of this Parliament and that it is not good on these topics, especially when it comes to the state of the HRT being politically competitive and trying to collect cheap political points. Because the situation on HRT should be our common interest, regardless of political membership, we must together pass as best laws as possible in order to allow HRT to be a public service. That's what our citizens from the aspect of the fee they pay, of course. And here, we at the HSS Club would pray that the future approaches are more responsible for the way we work when it comes to parent committees and that these situations that have been happening are no longer repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56437	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry. We have before us a new HRT Act that needs to fix everything that hasn't been right so far. I won't talk much about the law because the secretary of state was very exhaustive, I'll just say some remarks about our club. But first, I would say why this new law is needed, why it is necessary to bring it and what we expect of it. We expect him to solve two problems that are highlighted in public today, as far as HRT is concerned. One is a financial business that is outside all legal frameworks and another is the quality of the programme. First something about finance. The long-term management crisis is caused by the fact that there is no institution in the current law that will oversee the financial operations of HRT. The program council doesn't do that. Unfortunately, there is neither an external institution that would oversee it, and that is the only billion and 200 million kunas that fall from the sky, the contribution is from the sky, and no one is responsible and has no responsibility at all. The report mentioned by a colleague who was about to arrive in front of us for 2008 was the real idea. Incomes a billion 549 million kuna, spends a billion 545, gains 4 million 100 thousand kuna. Extraordinary, beautiful. However, we also read the newspaper. What do the papers say? VAT on foreign invoices is not paid, debt 74 million kuna to the state, interest on that 103 million kuna. For 2009, another 55 million, a total of 160 million kuna. We read further that the idyll is not exactly as shown in the HTV report, that the media reportedly says former director Vanja Sutlic is still receiving salary there, that officials have managerial contracts, so for example. one high-ranking accounting employee retired and received several hundred thousand kuna severance. The Batman was paid $250,000, the ratings were 4%. False fees, we read in the papers, which have never done anything, receive salaries between three and seven thousand kunas a month. It's supposed to be 26. So, what is even worse than all this is the uncontrolled procurement of external production without public procurement, and yet many private companies owned or co-owned directly or indirectly employed through which these foreign productions are obtained for large money. Well, then I'm not surprised that one of the former HTV officials told me when we talked about the state of HTV, there's no political currents. Only financial interest currents. According to these reports, and according to these results, man can truly believe it. Why is that so bad money management? In addition to a law that did not foresee the possibility of abuse at the time, we hope today by this law to correct it. This is also because the charges fall under state support. According to the interpretation of our Competition Protection Agency and Chapter 8. The European Union shall include all fees paid to the public media in the category of support. Therefore, they must be regulated within these frameworks. With us, the biggest support is received by those whose support and financial operations are well supervised and well controlled, except for HRT. I would just mention that HRT receives support of billions and 200 million kunas through the fee and that about 12% of the total support Croatia gives annually, that this is more than support to shipyards, that this is more than support to the total steel industry. So it's about very large funds that are not only out of control but as support affecting the competition. Because of these support in its market part of HTV, it can lower the prices of advertising minutes and advertising spaces, yet it prevents commercial televisions from developing and making what we call media pluralism, and media pluralism is the foundation of every democracy. Therefore, in this new law, we expect media pluralism to be placed within the frameworks set by the European Union. How much is this support compared to other countries? I will only mention one table issued by the European Union that speaks of what is part of the gross domestic product per capita. Like what? in Slovakia, that is 0.3% of the annual support paid by residents, 0.3% of GDP per capita. In Poland 0.4, Croatia 1.5. Three to four times that. Or in absolute values, the annual population of Slovakia pays their public television 40 euros per capita, Poland 45 euros, in Croatia 120 euros. And there should be some reasons why this law I hope is brought into legal frameworks like this I would say irresponsiblely available with that money. What's the consequence? The result is 3500 employees plus about 1000 fees. To produce a radio program that takes about a third of that money and two 24-hour programs. And when you figure out how much on a 24-hour waste programme, then it's a 24-hour program somewhere around 1100, 1200 employees. And you know how many for a 20-four-hour commercial television program? 4 to 5 times less, about 300 and some employees, 4 to 5 times less. So it's about me, I'm free to say now that I'm talking about a lowly attitude towards money falling from the sky, and that's something that this law needs to be corrected and brought under strict control. What should be mentioned in this presentation is the programme itself. We're passing a new law not only because of the finances, but also because of the program. The Programme has responsibility for the Programme Council, the programme council that is in crisis today and which I would say literally does not follow the HRT programme, does not follow it I dare say because it does not respond to it and we see by all the records that very rarely reacts. For example, it does not react to the most important or most important parts of public television information programme. What's the information program? I hope that under the new law, a new council will take control of that as well. The information program is an unobstructed programme and that is what public television must not tolerate. I'm going to quote the project Dr. Victoria Car from the Faculty of Political Sciences. In its scientific project, it analysed the content of information emissions from the point of view whether information is unilateral or is worth pluralism. HTV definitely failed. It turns out that the information emissions of HTV in 58% of their news that bring the news are processed unilaterally, so there is no pluralist democratic approach. And when you look at the HTV logs, you can also conclude that without great scientific analysis, when for example Mr. Zoran Spraitz is known for his comments on the news. Well, I'm not paying his fee to hear his comment. I pay to hear objective information. I don't pay Mr. Spray to laugh, to laugh, to laugh at the scene on the streets of Belgrade when a passerby drowns in a stream of water and fights for his own life, and Mr. Spritz commenting on it falls into laughter such that he couldn't speak any further. It's unserious for public television. Or when, for example, Mr Spreitz, in a recent interview with Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, appoints one large company of the great employer as the biggest debtor and the weakest one to pay. Well, if he'd done it in a real democratic legal state, he'd have paid such compensation for the damage done to that company, so he'd never play with that kind of data again. It's not public television. Public television must have objective information based on pluralism. Public television cannot be television by one party, one political view or even better by another financial group. It is often politicized with a program of particularly informative programs. For example, I am now reading these days that Mrs. Hlorka Novak Srzic was once again appointed to one of her duties as she belongs to HDZ, the HDZ has set her up. I, as vice president of the HDZ, can responsibly say that I absolutely don't consider it my own. First of all, it's not political, it's other interesting lobbys. I don't think of her as my own because she was my candidate for president, and then she was the editor of the information program only gave seventh place per minute in the election campaign, and I don't consider her God when I have to say that to the democratic option when she sits on the wing of Minister Shuker. This cannot be a member of the Christian option. It's rude to sit down with Minister Shuker on his lap and declare it a game of competition. If nothing else because of gender inequality, say I can't sit down with Minister Shuker on my lap. So there's no talking about an even match to the market. I don't think public television should be used for such pranks, but rather for its structure and for its management to be designed so that it doesn't happen again. And a few words specifically about the law itself. So, the law is set up to say so in two credentials. One that will oversee the financial and other programming and enforcement of this law. The first superintendent has a supervisory board and has a board of directors and that is what I think is a modern solution that is consistent with most very different solutions in the countries of the European Union. The Supervisory Board will be appointed to the government's proposal by the Parliament, which I think is very good. That administration will be appointed by the Supervisory Board by procedure which I think is well-hit. What's new and I think it's quality and where I see the biggest step of this law is a contract that the administration will sign with the government. It's a five-year contract. This is where public television has to be committed to public action. Here, its market must be reduced to the least possible measure, this is where the law provides for it to fully separate the financial records of the market share from the financial records of this part financed from the tax. So, out of the pockets of all our citizens. The separation of financial supervision from the programme section should be much more stringent than the law provided. That's why I think the Programme Council should and that's what our club thinks, should be responsible for the program, not the funding. It should be responsible for the election of editors, for the independent selection of editors because it is the policy of the programme. The programme's policy is being conducted through the editors, and this should be the function of an independent Programme Council. I therefore believe that Article 17 should avoid a combination in which the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board together adopt a financial plan. I don't think the Programme Council should go into the financial plan, but strictly maintain control of the programme itself. They also cannot agree that council members choose different associations, professional artists, actors' associations, civil, environmental initiatives because it is technically impossible. Who's gonna make them name their member? We will never reach such a Programme Council, so I believe that it should continue to be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the principles to be laid down by alternative Article 17 of this Law. And not in the end, it is questionable whether it is necessary to state the professions of future members of the council, because we can always ask ourselves, and why some professions are missing. I immediately ask why, for example, there is no healthcare expert. You will ask why there is no expert on the judiciary. The third will ask why there are no experts for some social categories, etc. I think it's sensitive to determine some professions and to throw others out of the structure of the future council. And let me get this straight. I believe that this law is absolutely welcome, that it is good quality with some of the changes that we have proposed and that, in the debate, it will certainly be crystallized until the second reading, that it will be a very good law that has two important tasks. He is one to clear HRT of the boastful behavior towards money paid by citizens and citizens of this country. Secondly, to introduce the gradual provision of pluralism and those houses that live on the market, which means that the marketing or market share of HTV needs to be gradually brought into regulation and relations with European Union customs. Under these two conditions, I suggest we pass this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56439	We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56440	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Hebrang said that in Slovakia, 0.3% of gross national product, 1 and a half percent, stands out in Slovakia for public television. This data is completely incorrect, because if you divide a billion and a half kuna of HTV revenue, divide by 250 billion gross domestic product, then you'll get at best 0.06% of gross domestic product, and not one and a half percent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56441	Thank you. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56442	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Let me first say something about this Croatian Radio Television Act, P.Z. Number 559, where the forecast or better put forward suggests a cut in the television subscription by that 25%. I absolutely agree that it is logical in this country to reduce parafiscal burdens. I didn't say once or twice that according to this state classification, we have 245 such parafiscals today, for those 245 parafiscals, these are the data from 2009, today we have maybe one or two more. So in 2002, for these 245 parafiscal donations, this country or various institutions were incometing 5.2 billion kuna, and last 2009 for these 245 donations, the state was incometing as much as $12.5 billion. So plus 7.3 billion kuna in seven years. Clearly, this is inadmissible, and one such giving is certainly the television fee. In 2008, as we heard from Mr. Hebrang, HRT's income was a billion 549 million kuna. On the TV fee, 68.8% of the total, with 22.2% of the sales revenue. Since the TV tax of 2008. HRT received one billion and 43 million kunas from TV promotions HRT and Croatian Radio together made 345 million kunas. About 523 million kuna goes to Croatian radio television, for material expenditures of 671 million kuna and therefore, I agree here, rarely but this opportunity with Mr Hebrang that HRT is equal to money. Why is he hitting the Parliament sometimes? Imagine that someone here in the Parliament has received the severance of 300, 400 thousand kuna as they receive in these institutions. So they would just tear us apart. It's our problem if someone gets a newspaper, or if you don't give God a parking lot, you can't get a parking lot, you can get a newspaper, so it's hitting on us. On Croatian radio, there are 3 thousand 629 people working on the radio, 721, 2 thousand 118 people working on TV, in the musical production of 178 people, on general business 614. That's what the introduction means. But what would it mean to me to apply this law? It means reducing that television fee by 25%, or from a million 43 million kuna to some 750 million kuna, as Mrs. Petir has previously noted. What would that mean for Croatian TV? I say if it were to happen, it would simply cause one general chaos. I am clearly opposed to having to say the same thing before I talk about it later, and I am also against anyone who now has a electricity connection paying Croatian TV television to pay a fee. I'm absolutely against it, I have two power connections and I think they've had enough of one television subscription, or why would I know my father because he has a connection in the stable for a couple of heroes also have to pay a television subscription or a fee. It just doesn't have to be made possible. And they're trying to get to about 600 thousand new users, and I think it's just an exaggeration. Understandably, there will also be a day on Croatia's radio television where expenditures will have to be reviewed. I am absolutely against reducing wages there, reducing jobs etc., and the fact that there are also likely to be extra employees in Croatia, no one should doubt that. That there are faceless abductions on Croatian television, and that's probably true, I don't know from outside production, etc. The fact that hundreds of people receive, for example, more salaries than ministers on Croatian television, that may be the least important. It's more important if there were much less employees in that media so that nothing really changed. However, I would also like to stress that I am against absolutely any layoff of people. I can also say it with the whole public administration. If the public administration had 20% or 30% less employees, I say absolutely nothing would have happened dramatically in this country. From 2003 to 2009, 85,000 new people were employed in Croatia, and in those or in those 85 thousand, 30 thousand were employed in the public sector, whether it was schools or hospitals, administration or elsewhere, in the president's office, in the offices of the Parliament, in the county, in municipal enterprises, etc., etc. But now to get to that political assessment, which is the point of this law, what do I call a 25% reduction in the subscription? I say the point is actually a political dictatorship. You will either be our service on Croatian Radio or you will be nobody's service, and you will not be a public service. And then the fact that such services might end up as Vjesnik, I think that someone who sends that message is actually not mostly, it doesn't matter because they go from principle all for power, power for nothing. When this decision was made, I'd say, about disciplining HRT with such a proposal? It was brought to the government's meeting after Mr. Hebrang had already mentioned it, and so did I, Mr. Spritz, openly in the journal, supported the union referendum. I claim that this Dnevnik was, in a way, gasoline, or rather, gasoline on fire, that the citizens simply set out to sign the petition afterwards. Looking at this Dnevnik and I thought to myself, so you won't be gentlemen on TV for long, and it really hasn't been 24 hours, and the answer immediately follows through the so-called. television subscription. However, once again I say television, there must be a lot of these dubiosises, but in this way no one can play with it. Understandably, any normal I would say in this country, is to pay a smaller television subscription or any tax to pay it less, not more. Only an abnormal man would probably agree to pay more if he could pay less, but I think this government approach is actually an attempt to master television itself. I repeat, once again I will say HRT must be restructured, and I can quote these texts that Mr. Hebrang mentions. Well, here, for example. And Mr. Yurdana writes in the Nationals that this amount of BBC program is working 600 people as much as it does here, I don't know 1500 or 2000, if it's true I don't know, but I dare say that in this country, HRT is still the best public service. And it's not like I'm hitting on someone, I'm licking myself because at the same time I have to blame myself on other national or commercial televisions, but I dare say that HRT is the most open TV. I say, unlike Mr. Hebrang, that they are the only ones who are correct, how correctly they have made the presidential elections, and I think that without HRT, it would be important, significantly different. Once again, absolutely, there is no dilemma, so clearly there are people on HRT who are servants of all governments, there is. There are those, it's true, who are also opposition-oriented, that's true. There are those who are also trying to do what I can to make a distinction between, overcoming or outreaching both power and opposition. There are those who are also there and it should be said prone to money, capital, etc., their influence, but once again I say HRT is the only medium about which here, here for the Assembly speaker, we can discuss it freely, and we only want to make it clear when this business comes to the agenda of HRT. HRT can also discuss us 24 hours a day, who defends her, let her do it. We talk about them 1, 2 or 3 times a year. About commercial televisions never and never let God think of someone because they're private, but why don't you tell them about their editor, what's called a concept. And let me also say that I don't forget, this Parliament of whatever it is, but I say it's a much better place than many, many media that are in some way a court of public. What I'm afraid of, however, is I call it the nebuloso that's being prepared, that all those who have no electricity or that count or whatever it's already called, means their home, the cottage, etc., for each such number have to pay for a TV subscription. I think it's enough for them to pay just one, not two or more if you have two of those numbers. I also think, to be open, it's absurd to pay these little merchants and things like that, craftsmen, caterers to ZAMP if they pay a TV subscription let that money somehow turn around through that form. I think it's absurd that every room in the hotel has to pay a TV subscription. So, if we want to regulate these issues then I am, but I'm against this kind of law trying to destroy HRT, and then buy it by transferring even higher costs to the entire population of the Republic of Croatia. The other thing I want to say when I'm talking about names, I personally don't have anything against anyone, not even Mrs. Hlorka. In fact, I'm saying there's been a lot of talk about her last week, that only HRT followed the presidential election honestly. That's what I'm willing to say, where Mrs. Hloverka was the lead actor. That's what to say. That's why I will always defend HRT as a public service. HRT is often a bad service, but it is still much better than many others. However, we all also know who has HRT in some way I dare say there is Croatia. HRT is not Croatia, but without HRT it would be harder, I would say, to the authorities. However, this 2010 or 2007 HRT we know is not won as the '90s Special Forces, Fires etc., it's taken over by political acquisitions, and I think the person I'm talking about is one of them. Well, whether she's a Christian or not. Equally, all political battles are being broken in some way in this country and in HRT. Equally without HRT, you simply can't change opportunities in society. I think of the period that will come after the next elections, and that is why I think that all personnel should put in place who thus came to their mandates and at their disposal. Therefore, it is not crucial that I say this Law on HRT whether the Parliament will have such or such an influence and that the English Parliament has an impact on the BBC, but that the departure of one team in power does not leave their half-trons in another, perhaps even more powerful institutions. I even dare say that the 3rd January government, in its well-being and even naivety, are somehow responsible for this state of Croatian broadcasting. It has been 7 years since the 3rd January government, clearly this government is not responsible for economic breakdown, for financial failure, perhaps in this particular case it is responsible for the state of the Croatian radio television and I will say once again, I turn red here, that the essence of this story about Croatian broadcasting is huge money. Everything else I think on Croatian radio is a second-rate issue, and when it will all be reflected normally, what kind of acquisitions they have come to see before the regular or extraordinary next parliamentary elections. And just two more sentences I think two points are connected, so if we had to talk 20 minutes, the external production without HRT can't exist, that's why all producers at this point are on the Croatian Radio Television side without HRT, and there are no Croatian film without HRT, and that's why if it's called directors on the Croatian RadioTelevision side, the possibility that everyone in the Assembly without HRT would not exist either, and that's why I'm absolutely for HRT. One election campaign without HRT you can't run, so I think it must really be a public service, not a party service, because in that way always small parties versus those who claim to act in power will lose. That's what I was gonna say, if there's more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56443	There's no time, colleague Cain, you can see that you've been blinking for the third time. Thank you very much. We have three applications for a correction of the quote, first of all distinguished colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In a series of inaccuracies that my colleague Cain said, I will only say one thing, which is that this proposal makes the law that first reads or tries to put pressure on Croatian television or you will either be ours or you will not be paid or have money. That's absolutely incorrect. Because it stands unequivocally in the general provisions of this Act in Article 1(4) in the pursuit of its activities, Croatian broadcasting is independent of any political influence or pressure by promoters of commercial interest. It is clearly and unequivocally said that it will continue to be a public service for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56445	Thank you. The second came to the correction by distinguished counterpart Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect for counterpart Cain to want to destroy Croatian broadcasting. This Law wants to introduce order among other things in the financial business of Croatian Radio Television. It is incorrect to bring any comment, anyone from Croatia with a reduction in the fee, it is simply incorrect. This part of the economic measures involving the reduction or release of parafiscal charges, including the fee for Croatian broadcasting. But unfortunately, your colleague Cain is no longer able to correct you because it really doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56447	Thank you. And distinguished colleague Susana Bilic Vardic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain said that if it did happen, I quote, "that television doesn't get that 300 million from the fee to cause all sorts of chaos.". A colleague of Cain's, first of all, that is not true, if we are going to have the right to do so if you do not think that on television and until this has come into effect this amendment and the addition of the Law of Government to which the programme council under the current Law has not been up to and cannot be resolved and therefore such proposals have been laid down in this Bill proposal. The other thing is, you said it's uncanny that the tax is paid according to the electricity connection. Well, dear fellow, that's what some other countries have and you could have been informed about, and very interesting when you're in favour of removing parafiscal charges, that's the only place you're defending and putting a fence when it comes to Croatian broadcasting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56449	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, esteemed colleague Antun Vujic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56450	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have a pooled reading of two bill proposals, one is a change and complementary, and the other is incomparably larger and more significant is the new Law on HRT. To not get too involved with each other right away, I'm just going to say a few words about what I mentioned first, so change of charge. It is not right and it seems completely unthinkable that at the same time two proposals are submitted to the Assembly which are mutually different one therefore realizes the fee at 1.5, and the other at 1.25, but even if it were a temporary measure, something and possible, and even if not too much..., I mean those who suggested it on the reduction of charges did not calculate a few elementary things. This tax reduction includes about 300 million kuna, 300 million kuna less in the business year, I don't know what that means and who's going to take on that responsibility. 100, a thousand salaries is about 100 million kuna, for how much funds are abolished and the possibility of public television operating should take responsibility for those who suggest it. Because it's one thing to be critical of public television, it's one thing to look for better solutions, it's one thing to criticise if there's a sharp solution and the other is the only public media that owns here public, ours as citizens, and it's not private, I'm talking about really... it's in a situation that it can't do business. We're vigorously pleading against this, and we're hoping it'll be smart enough for these kind of measures to be of fire nature and it's not going to work without effect and it's going to give up. However, it is not possible to talk about a new law on public television without saying a few things that make for the ecology of the adoption of this Law, which means general and political conditions in which it is adopted. So when we passed the law about 7, 8 years ago in 2003, this current public television thing. At that time, we recognized about one of the key ones, by quotes or without quotes of enemies, public television. And it was them and those structures and those thinking that wanted public television to be party television. And then we tried to at that time and on those occasions in two bill proposals, because the first one didn't have to go, and the second one we found some solutions that made it possible for seven years to stabilise public television and to those discussions that are now going on and up to this debate that is now happening there is, however, that television in general, and here it was heard from some who have been discussing, and that is how it is thought in European authorities, including European television common bodies, one of the best public televisions in this area and one of the serious flows of this public. Today, political relations with television and the protection of television are not only a problem but also of commercial interest. This is a newspaper where many debaters, and some of us here, we've been listening, interfered with two things. So by defending some political solutions, in fact, I don't know whether or not they purposely, maybe even accidentally advocate such commercial solutions that damage the interest of public television and that have nothing to do with any European authorities' demands, the European Commission, but it has to do with our ability to retaliate the kind of commercialisation against which all countries have succeeded. Some of the traditions they had, some of the standards they set, some of the laws they passed, and some of the public opinion that is immune to fill his head with those whose Big Brother is the only reality and actually even a desirable reality in society. So we have two environments to set up this law. And right away I'm going to say that there are a whole series of formulations and I'm glad to say that, which the Ministry of Culture did well and in many aspects of innovation these should have been done. The past law had to be amended, but in a way to maintain its direction, some institutional solutions had to be improved which proved insufficient. That's where it started, but unfortunately in the wrong direction according to the SDP club. Therefore, it started not to further protect public television, its social importance, its sociality, but to subsidise public television and to submit public television to appropriate political solutions. political institutions, or roughly speaking to political power. I don't know if you're thinking enough, if you think enough then I'll say, no matter what we expect from the next election, I don't want the public television to be SDP. And I hope that there could be so much brains on the other side so that if gentlemen were to say, regardless of the next election, I wouldn't want public television to be HDZ because public television can't be party, it can't be government either. The institutions that are now proposing necessarily bring her into that position. The Supervisory Board should indeed serve to protect those elements of financial operations and those of which are required in the new law to resolve themselves in relation to double accounting against those who, possibly as a programme council, have competences... That's what we suggested, that's what we're aware of, and if it were up to me, I'd suggest it, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I would not suggest that the Supervisory Board become a fact-finding governing body which, on the one hand, abolishs the autonomy of public television as public television, as a governing body and does not allow it to be appointed and who will represent, appoint and who will represent public television from third... I don't know what kind of cases, a whole series of things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That through public sessions, in fact, as a representative of the government, we can actually make majorisation and that we are actually losing this element of the programming council as what needs to protect the interests of the public. Of course, in the collapse of the programming council as it occurred, in the obstruction of the election of the 11th member of the programme council, in all the troubles we've had, in the current series of resignations, it's as if it's going to compromise that institution, which we'll find a smarter institution than that. We had, we heard, we had a direct pick so what was going on back then. Then they wanted to form a political party in the council, some who thought they were in charge of the programme there and end freedom of journalists because they would edit the journals. That's not good. And what's better than this, no. And did we try to maybe find better quality people when we choose, we didn't, because the parties choose and propose those who are obedient to them, not those who are of quality that they can be something. And when one of these is found, and eventually the associations support it, and it's mass, then it collapses. I don't want to go back to it, but we've created a very, very bad environment for the adoption of this law. It's not a service or a ministry, because in such an environment, we're actually starting to say again just politically, we're competing here, and we're not going to see real things. The second set, therefore, is a political problem and a political part of this aspect to which we see the negative trend opened by this law, perhaps not with desire, but via the facts will be so because the majorisation at the joint meetings of the programming board and the supervisory board, and even if we do not see that there is some solution in which it will not be the position of the Supervisory Board itself is such that it is factually majorizing. It also does not only have certain powers as I have said which are manageable, which I think establishes the entire line of decision, it establishes factors, it establishes human resources, etc. That can't possibly be. And the second line that's now going on this political inability to assess what we're not going to do is a commercial line. The question of what is a fee, whether it is a support or not, is really settled as it is now heard because someone is in Europe, but not for Europe itself because they know how to defend it, said no, no, they are all state support because it is so clearer and easier to account for. However, public support and public interest in public support is one thing, and state support in terms of shipyard is another. There is no people who cannot ensure to themselves in the field of information that they have public information. The people who would thus agree are immature as political people. And it must not be allowed, and this is allowed because the climate of the pseudo-liberal is created by which all public fees are public and we will now pursue public fees. The amount of subscription is as average as in other countries. On a list that I know well, I don't have it on me to wave with her, of course in the expected place, somewhere behind Slovenia and somewhere in front of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. However, what is now meant in Article 14 and paragraph 5 of this Law shows in another way where, in my opinion and in our opinion, it does not understand in what sense a struggle is being fought for the preservation of a large public media in Croatia. In Article 14, at the request of commercial televisions and commercial publishers, including newspaper publishers, a formulation arises in which, in fact, to simplify in the new media on the web portal, public television must not have a better portal than commercials or newspapers, but they may have such a review of daily news that cannot go beyond the scope of a short review published in the daily newspapers and other magazines. It's not the only place that's like that, but it's the most secluded. Why? Why can't a public portal, public television, be better than any other portal? What's that interest, I mean, that doesn't allow it? Interest of the Competition Protection Agency... I do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not true, because I will now read to you, because such things have been discussed, and among other things there has been debate in Denmark, so it is quite simply concluded there and now I quote the judgment of 22 October 2008: "The effect that public service can have on the commercial offer of rivals cannot be a criterion imposed by the European Competition Act in order to assess an area which includes the corresponding tasks." Therefore, it cannot be prescribed that public television should not have better news on the portals than commercial television or newspapers. I don't understand how these formulas can be found. I know there's a battle going on in this country, between neoliberal perceptions and other perceptions, between me thinking different interests, but let this battle be fought in terms of protecting competition. Is this a protection of competition or is this actually the liquidation of one public right? I think the answers are very simple and that this House cannot allow itself to be an instrument of private interest, and then those who interpret these private interests as European interests to us until they are not European interests in the meantime because they are not regulated in that way. There's a lot of things, and I'm gonna say a lot of things again and that's good. But unfortunately two key directions, the direction of this law was not only complemented by the repairs and improvements of the previous law but also went in the direction of statehood. This state of affairs will mean in the perspective of persuasion whoever is in that position that will mean, and that shouldn't mean it. And secondly, on the other hand, he actually accepted on the small door a dictatorship of commercial interests that sorry gentlemen didn't come here for public television to work. They didn't come here for any other reason than to make money. It's the interest of commercial television, to sell entertainment and that kind of entertainment they're gonna make money on. Will we now declare no interest in the fate of public television compared to one side of such commercial television and on the other hand whether we will be uninterested or so blind that we think if someone has power at some point, that they will keep it forever, that it will carry on a fight already won against the party's form of government over that public television, a new form of conflict in which short sleeves may remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56451	Thank you very much, colleague Vujic. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, distinguished colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56452	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The National Minority Club will also support the Croatian Radio Television Bill's proposal as an amendment to the existing law. However, we regret that we may not have discussed the report on the work of the Programme Council earlier, the report on the business of television itself, or that we have not figured out what is good, which is bad so that perhaps we can build this law on a healthier basis. Namely, I will remember the time exactly when we were in the beginning of the decade 2001, 2003, when this House was just dealing with how to transform Croatian television into a public service that was intended for the general public, controlled by the public, but certainly also financed by the public. At the time, we were already talking about a premise system of 3600 employees, the necessity of restructuring, the reorganisation and its efficient functioning. Meanwhile, transmitters and connections have been singled out, we've reduced by one program. The composition and way of electing the Programme Council has been amended in a way that removes politicians as the culprits for all. The subscription for use was renamed in a fee so that HRT would not have to pay VAT, etc. What we have today after eight years or eight years later. The same, if not a large number of employees, although already at the time experts warned us that behind the three programmes on HRT, for three radio programmes it is necessary to implement the restructuring process, and on that basis to define the number of employees required. Today we can compare that, and then we couldn't compare to commercial televisions where today two commercial programs have employed about 600 employees. Our TV, I say someone says 3600, someone says over 4,000. But obviously we haven't changed things for the better. It may be our great tax, too, because let us not forget that we pay 120 euros per year in Croatia on the basis of 11000 euros in gross domestic product per capital, and we are in charge of fees with Italy paying 106 euros per year, where gross domestic product per capita is almost 28000. Or one France that pays annual fees of 120 euros where gross domestic product is more than 30,000 euros per capital, not to list Belgium or any other developed country. And maybe it would be good if we were here today someone already mentioned Slovakia that has an annual subscription of 40 euros, and has a gross domestic product somewhere at our per capital product level, or even more. We have an unfulfilled 11,000. Slovakia has 12 and a half thousand. Or Poland which also pays only 45 euros. However, they have a much lower gross domestic product. One word our fee ranks the highest in Europe when the gross domestic product per capita is monitored. The waste on television, sucking money with various fictitious contracts, not caring about the collection of claims, has pushed Croatia's television into the field of indifference, and I have to say suspicious business and we have seen very often in the media how money was sucked out. Let us remember 37 phantom translators who have not translated a single word, and their fees have been paid. Or fictitious contracts for recording, editing and ine jobs. Or the musicians and their fees for an unplayed not a single note. You'll say it was published by the media, but if we trust all the media why don't we now, or maybe it'll be good for UskoK to give us an answer to this as well as to HRT. The HRT Programme Council shall implement the programme principles and shall monitor the implementation of obligations under the law. We have warned from the National Minorities Club on several occasions that the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, as well as the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages, has no programme on television in the languages of national minorities, and I will remind you of our obligations to broadcast emissions in Italian, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, Russian, Ukrainian and Serbian. There is insufficient representation of minority topics in information programmes of Croatian television, except for radio because there are a lot of emissions in minority languages, very often topics are processed if there are, they are processed sensationalistic, with lack of objectiveism, which certainly does not contribute to public sensitisation of the problems and interests of minorities, and let us not forget, however, it is a public television that forms public opinion. Minority emissions are classified as emissions that have nothing to do with minorities, enough to mention that there are Czechs or Hungarians in one Pilates Association, that the show is classified as a minority show. Croatia truly recognises a large number of minorities 22, but according to which the "My Kenyan Roots" emission criterion or "My Kenic Roots" shows about followers of the hara krišna has been classified as minority emissions, obviously not even the HRT knows. Trying to warn against the non-execution of the role of the public media, warning of the non-implementation of the HRT Act, we have often been accused of interfering not only with editorial policy but also of violating the freedom of the media and freedom of the journalistic profession. It would be interesting to hear what firing means to journalists in the principle of silence or dismissal, just because they had their opinions or made it public. The impression is that HRT was ruled as if it were private property, not public service, not a service financed by citizens and in the service of citizens, or something else that was talked about by counterpart Vujic. Free society and free media are inseparable, without timely truth and quality information it is impossible to make any quality decisions. Freedom and pluralism of the public media are determined to create democracy, but also to protect it. The more information, both true and objective, is the possibility of balancing the opinion of objectifying events. If we maintain media pluralism with the normal maintenance of commercial televisions, or if we lead to the absurdities of the North Korean model, the model only with the state media, certainly depends on us and how we regulate the media market, the media will behave. In fact, I think the three fundamental things that are important to set quality, which is media advertising, is the level of the fee as a support system and a little vague funding from the state budget where Articles 9, 10, 11 and 12 are mentioned, where it is imposed on how much the Croatian programme, Croatian music, the European programme, continues to talk about signing a contract between the Government and television, which I would like to ask the secretary to explain a little bit more, because it turns out that everything that is a public service will ultimately be paid especially from the state budget, which is in some ways not clearly defined, so I would like to get into that part of the clarification. Namely, when it comes to media advertising, surely you should see what space Croatian television can occupy as public television, because yet over advertising in 70% of the parts takes place via television, very often our television appeared with... prices, not market prices, and she was really destroying advertising space, but I'm also saying that pluralism of the media, that is, by destroying commercial television, are we doing a favor, are we really just going to stay on national television tomorrow. [[You don't understand.]] Normally, the level of the fee should also be seen, I agree with the suggestion that the fee must be lower, but I agree equally that the restructuring on Croatian television must indeed be carried out on a parallel basis, and finally see what this television should produce, what it should be broadcast with, or what number of people, because it is certain that it must be carried over by Formula 1 seen by 2, 3% of viewers, whether it is a public interest or it is public interest something else, which can be produced with less resources. When I'm on objective information, I can't stop the fact that we were objectively informed at the moment when the government announced a tax reduction. Otherwise, whenever any reach is announced in the pockets of pensioners, workers, or other words of the Croatian population, it is immediately converted into liters of milk, kilograms of bread, but here it was not wanted to ask an average citizen what he thinks of reducing the tax, but rather it was sought by top European experts. Once again, television has failed and shown that there is no objective, that there is no true information, that there is no standard for all equals. So here, we will really support these changes, but I think that, as HRT has to satisfy public interests at the state level, I would also like to stress that it is very important for regional and local level to be an adequate representation of the information, artistic, cultural and educational programme, because in order for the public to be informed about the facts, events and phenomena that citizens feel that television of their lives, to monitor their activities, I think that far more should be used by regional programmes that have recently been neglected, are not being invested in them. In particular, it does not invest in personnel so that local television, or regional television, today is too little an integral part of the everyday life of each of our citizens. And I think as long as the citizens don't feel that television is theirs and they'll pay harder. I said we support and reduce, you need to take care of how television is restructured. I also ask you, I say an clarification of Article 13 which is currently related to additional contracts in the implementation of the programme, but we have not had any specific articles so far that have defined how specific emissions will be solved when it comes to any of our diaspora, any minority, any exclusive, or emissions that follow a smaller number of citizens, but each time the contracts have failed. Here I am afraid again that this is too wide and that again because of the width, it may be that the unrealization of Article 13 is avoided again and that we should remain deprived of those emissions that I have mentioned that the National Minority Club is interested in, which is information in the languages of the national minorities, which is our obligation and according to international acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56453	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I will only extend this debate which Mrs. Chuhnil had just begun, which is restructuring as Croatian television has said. So when it comes to the restructuring of HRT, which by introducing this new legal provision or rate of 1.25 of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia compared to the previous rate of 1.5%, then somehow that word restructuring reminds me of the restructuring of the shipyard. With a significant difference, the restructuring of television or HRT provides for a reduction of around 20% of total funding, and in Croatian shipyards this usually results in investment in shipyards. There's something else that's interesting, I'd kind of say similar though shipyards aren't the subject, but this word restructuring reminded me, which is that both, so both HRT and shipyards stand badly, and co-operatives mainly those who have good VIPs or other connections, or as someone here said uncontrollable procurement of external productions stand well. So, cooperatives, I'm talking about shipyards or shipyards, and uncontrollable external production of HRT as a pandan to these cooperatives is also an excellent financial standing. A very interesting fact and one to be warned and fingered in any case. 245 or 248 parafiscal charges in the Republic of Croatia which have increased to a total burden on citizens of 12.5 billion kuna, including how people prefer to say subscription than fees, and now we are talking about support, subscription, fees, support, etc. – it amounts to 80 kuna per household or one TV receiver. And here, somehow, there's a intention as I've heard and as I've read, that almost every impact is involved in the possibility that there's a possibility of getting a TV receiver and then a new or increasing number of TV subscribers. The calculation of 1.5% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia and then some increase as well as average wages in the Republic of Croatia, God forbid they continue to grow, is equal to all citizens, for all citizens, for all those who have a TV receiver. Whether he's some kind of hundreds of railroad managers or I don't know where, a power line or where, with a salary of over 30 thousand kuna, he's a pensioner who has 1500 or 1800 kuna and owns a TV. I'm saying this because there are other possibilities for calculating the amount of TV tax. I'm also talking about differences in our counties, not to tell regions at the level of average salaries. Starting with the Istrian County, compared to for example. with Brod-Posavia County where the average salary is almost twice as large in Istria than in Brod-Posavia. Then, from Zagreb, the City of Zagreb and other counties, Primorje-goransko, etc. But the TV fee is the same, the same for everyone. If we were to take that into account, then calculation by county, most likely to get the same amount of money, that's a billion and 200 million, but otherwise distributed by certain counties. That's not good either. We have introduced an OIB – a personal identification number that we can see and calculate exactly, so publicly, transparently as much as anyone earns. So, from individual to individual, from citizen to citizen. But there doesn't seem to be a will either, and someone might think it's a big deal, even though it's all computerized to precisely determine a fee of 1.5% or 1.25%, but compared to his salary, on his income. Which is why straight, not to say by... Cut off everyone equal to 80 kuna? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we are going to declare this measure or the legislative proposal eto by cutting parafiscals somehow not to say, that there is no populist measure of cutting 20 kunas of giving citizenship, if by saying someone here is going to try to discipline public service, public radio television, and there is a suspicion that is expressed in previous discussions, then there is this other way of thinking about the amount and method of charging a fee or subscription, or support this public information service. They say there's a dictation of commercial television behind the hill, which public television is trying to influence it, its quality, to reduce, and part of it is, to tell cookies to take over commercial television, if we're going to let that happen. After all possible privatisations, after T-mobile, banks etc., will there be certain changes in the media field here. It is true that Croatian broadcasting has 3 and a half thousand, let's not be caught by the word and correction of the incorrect quote, but let's say about 3 and a half, 3 and 629 said Mr. Hebrang in his presentation and plus almost a thousand as said by fees who, as co-operatives of Croatian radiotelevision, earn more. It's true that the BBC has almost 80% less employees. If you look at the production of one BBC and our Croatian TV that production, especially the fun character of musical character, is done almost always with support always in collaboration with these external productions, then you see that the difference is drastic, although the number of employees of one and other televisions is also great but in favour of the BBC. Now how will this measure work on Croatian television. I have information, and I have talked to some Croatian radio broadcasters who say that when someone is removed from the site of the editor of any type of program its coefficient does not change, this new one gets that coefficient, but the one who was before and went to the usual press place the coefficient remains the same and pays the same, as it is. Furthermore, the severances that someone was talking about were also huge, further, there are a number of other things I'm going to talk about about these external associates, about the support of some technical etc. How much is there, and why TV and those who work there would not be cooperative or compassionate with this state of society and they are public television, public service so Croatian broadcasting, clearly that they too need to know that there is no luxury and complacency in financing all of this and who it belongs to, and what it doesn't belong to. And I've cited examples where some don't really belong to huge funds. When we look on that side, then this measure that someone mentions by a populist downturn by 20 kuna, someone is assessing it by disciplining Croatian broadcasting so that it can go to state television or government service like it was a Vjesnik or it's still, that information rather than sensation, here's how far this Vesnik has come. I wouldn't want the Croatian Radio Television to end that way. Today there will be, or is a group of parties in power, and now this television should be the service of that party and that country run by that group, tomorrow may be some other party group in power, and what we should change all together again, or try to maintain one independence and one public work and independence and comment and information, the accuracy of information all that is written in these papers. I also have to mention that it's really true when someone here said they were losing or were to say in the information deficit so-called. small parties. I don't remember when someone from a specific example of HDSSB was invited to an informative show, to a central information show "Open" etc., and we see almost always the same faces. Whether they're in a fight tone or they're smiling with a mustache tone, etc. Almost always the same faces. When it comes to the support of a subscription or a fee, then it's about the commercial part, which is advertising. Believe me, this World Cup has been really watched, but I've really been sick since the Karlovsky Beers and some other things because at not the right time, at a time when a man should see if two coaches shook hands after the game, you have a Karlovac Beer. Well, it's hot, so it can be handled somehow, but really some things are exaggerated. Furthermore, appointing v.d. Hloverke Novak-SRzic, who was mentioned here by fellow Hebrang, and who survived at the time of the coalition government of SDP, HNS, HSLS and I don't know what not, I forgot to tell HSS and who, in certain shows, almost tended to try to distract certain partners and what the whole nation sees, is indeed a move that is not to honor those who made such a decision. In this country, nothing goes without politics, politics has got its fingers involved in everything, so I have no doubt about Croatian broadcasting and nothing goes without money. One goes with the other, one reflects on Croatia's broadcasting however you take it, on either side. And because of this, we would not or would not like for Croatian broadcasting to stop being a public service and to become state-owned or government television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56455	Thank you very much. Before we continue to discuss clubs, we have one application to correct the allegations. Dear colleague Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Grubisic, said in his debate that the momentum is being imposed here that HRT becomes a government service. My colleague Grubisic, not by any chance, as in Article 1. The proposal for a law on Croatian radiotelevision states that Croatian radiotelevision performs the activity and provision of public broadcasting services and the Republic of Croatia ensures independent and independent financing in accordance with this Law on State aid for public broadcasting services, and paragraph 4 of the same article says in carrying out its activities Croatian broadcasting is independent of any political influence and pressure of promoters of commercial interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56457	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56458	According to Article 209 of Mrs Bilić Vardić, if there is nothing else to correct, it does not have to correct my opinion, so my position. And according to the institute, correcting an incorrect allegation should therefore state the argument, the fact that I made a mistake, and my position cannot be based on this institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56459	It corrects the attitude in accordance with what it says in the text of the law, and it disagrees between the attitude and this, therefore, okay. Let's move on with the debate. HNS club, HSU, distinguished colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56460	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. In front of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party, I stress the satisfaction that it is good that these laws go into two readings, that probably one of these two, the shorter one will never see another reading because in the meantime it will fall off, and that the final proposal can be upgraded. Why am I saying that? So if there were political will and responsibility to the state of individual social structures in Croatia, especially pensioners, then the government would probably be positive on the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Croatian Television, which only in April 2009 offered to this Assembly then at the HSLS-HSU coalition club. In fact, we offered that retirement households would pay a fee, a radio-television fee at a rate of 1.5% on average pension, and then the government replied that it would be that HTV would run out of much of its income, to put their business at risk, and it was done somewhere in our estimates of around 70 million kuna. Today we are discussing a bill that reduces Croatia's revenues per year by 300 million kuna. Now it is not clear to me that something we have offered has been rejected that has in some way reduced Croatia's revenues by 70 million, and something is being offered that reduces their revenues by 300 million kuna. By making our proposal more socially acceptable, fairer, and more upbuilding. Of course, we believe that the government's observation was justified that there are more social structures which are the problem of paying such a high-level radio-television fee. We agreed then and could make a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Croatian Television. Of course, we are certainly ready to discuss then and today that, to the least possible extent possible, to a symbolic extent, we have reduced the TV fee for the unemployed, for people with very low incomes, so according to certain social censorships, and we have included the category of retirement households, so not a million and 170 thousand pensioners, but retirement households whose pension is the sole source of income. We argued this in a way that in the bill we used an average pension in Zrinski Topolovac, if I'm not mistaken, it is in Bjelovar-Belogor County where 997 kuna is the average pension. You know what it means to take 960 kunas a year's TV subscription, it's 1/12 receiving such a retirement home, and there as soon as there's such a low average there has a lot of such retirement households. We then proposed a reduction in the radio-television fee by 50 kuna or for such households to be no more than 30 kuna. Which means the government's proposal to bring the coefficient from 1.5 to an average salary to 1,125. That means taking down everyone's 20 kuna radio-television fee. Probably Vice President Fristić, to me, that 20 kuna doesn't mean too much in life, and why they take it off to us, why they take it off to all those who don't have a lot in life. Why is everyone evenly, why just one such criterion in this social situation? So, I'm not just saying this to point out some illogicalness, but to suggest to the Government, but if it has any intention, even though these two laws do not show the intention of reducing it, then let's make it a respectable social situation in the Republic of Croatia, and let's not reduce the coefficient, and who can and who can't pay, let's take off 20 kunas. Excuse me, but you cannot take the impression at the same time of proposing amendments to the Law on Croatian Television which provides for a reduction of the tax at the same time when a brand-new Law on Croatian Television can actually be a political trick that prepares a major cleanup on Croatian TV. Namely, the acting director, Mr Popovac and Prime Minister Kosor, agreed to postpone the application of the tax reduction until 1 November, provided that the Croatian Radio Television Directorate prepares a restructuring and rationalisation programme. Then what is the proposal to amend and supplement the law if the new law intends to charge the amount already in place, so November/prosinec when the law comes back into force. Well, this isn't a hoax. In fact, the government was entrusted with an existing V.D. Directorate gets a salary for mass layoffs and reorganisations which is assumed to include about 1000 of the total 3600 employees or employees in the Croatian Radio Television system. The value of such imaginary human rationalisation at the annual level is slightly more than 100 million kuna, and the impact of the reduction of the fee by 25% would be around 300 million kuna. So the rest of about 200 million kuna would have to be saved on the program and production. If it takes into account the planned rationalisation of the dramatic, documentary, educational, cultural and film programme, and on these segments most of the total costs of the Croatian broadcasting system, then it can be immediately assumed that the elements that make up the public service will be significantly reduced, and you will agree not to do so well. Therefore, it is assumed that the announcement of a reduction in the level of the fee that has caused psychological shock among all employees is actually intended to be used as a cover for the release primarily of the part of the employees who oppose the existing state of high politicisation or attempts at high, new attempts at high politicisation of Croatian television. If a new Law on Croatian Radio Television is based on such pre-work done, it means that the fact that the HRT system is effectively controlled will actually be possible to sideline on behalf of the HDZ and that Croatian broadcasting will be fully operational for months before the election. Once on HTV and Croatian radios under the exception of rationalisation are solved by unsuspecting journalists, editors and producers in the next phase of government under quotes, only similar and blackmailing personnel arrive in their places. Such a structure which has already been the maneuvers of previous leadership, but also the predecessor has already been built around 60%, but in another plan it will not be possible to change it after the change of government. The directorship may, but the entire system will be somehow filled with mostly ruling, close to loyal personnel. It is further believed that the new Government appointment of the new Supervisory Board will have a crucial impact on the depolitisation of HRT is quite naive, as the close personnel will be too much, and the rest will already be expelled from the HRT on the stock market or other information systems. Some of them will likely be politically marked through trade union or protests, and their engagement will again be interpreted as political mentorship over HRT. I think in the medium term, the over-resolved solution as much as it may seem now is to maintain such a tension situation among the opposing currents in Prisavlje as this situation of orderly disorder or let's say the balance of uncertainty is possible that this non-functional and mole management may be the best solution than any other hasty solutions. A program council that cannot choose a director, and such a V.D. Directorship will try to prevent mass cleanups and changes, keep the status of temporary all those who are v.d. and they must not all be or must not be sure that they will permanently reach these places and, in the meantime, prepare a model of legislation that will ensure the involvement of professional management and the real depolitisation of Croatian broadcasting after the elections. The state can and should maintain its influence on the quality of business of the Croatian Radio Television system but must be completely removed from the programming space. There are good solutions provided for in the proposal for a new law regarding this five-year contract defining public service services. Especially in a part of an information programme where the opinion of most journalists on candidates for main editorial posts must nevertheless be seen as binding. As far as production is concerned, the biggest problems in money management are taking place. She is the problem of successful management, not political influence. What further solutions will be related to this Croatian Radio Television Act we do not know. All we know is that in this part of the assembly session, we're going to solve our first reading. What kind of bill will we get in the second depends on the proposings, but I have a few suggestions that I want to share here with you, and suggestions are based on the address of one large part of the pension societies in which it is indicated that they are practically, that there are very few programs related to, of course, older and powerless persons, and never enough programs with children, younger, therefore all those programs that are obliged to educate our citizens about respecting privacy, dignity of reputation and honor of man and lack of emissions that meet our citizens about the fundamental rights of others. I, of course, suggest that Croatian broadcasting should be adapted, produced, co-produced and published for third-age persons, and I think that this law here is substantially insufficient and should be taken into account, as should be taken into account that the management structures of third-age citizens also have their representatives through the work of their associations, not in the part that will talk about the functioning, or financing of the system, but in the part that will talk about the programme. It is therefore necessary in some way to respect these almost and a million and a half citizens of Croatia, so over 60 years of age who really have special needs. Here is the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party. It will allow all its club members to vote by conscience, regardless of what is in the first reading when it is common for us all to raise our hands. It is a serious law, where we can in some way express our satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the proposed solutions in our first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56461	Thank you very much, colleagues. We have three reports of correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56462	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja. You've brought forth a series of incorrect allegations, among other things, one that's been terribly distracting me, which is that this is the directorate's office of the HRT loyal to the government. Well, if that were the case, then I will now react to you as an ordinary viewer, not as a member of the party and the people who, here I have it written, but I'll show myself later, they're not interested in your walks in Castia, or sweating on Bjellolasica, giving statements, caring about sports, I don't know what, and at least waiting for the carp to burn on the rakes and so you'd say about economic recovery there's for it because it's in all, absolutely all of it. ... That's exactly what I'm telling you, you see, you just said it right now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So this directorship and editors are absolutely not subject to this government or this. ... Yeah, and you probably are. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56463	Thank you. Another respected colleague, Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect that there's an attempt on the part of this proposal, or as you've said, a fellow attempt. ... Cleaners, etc., TV by-products, etc. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's not true. It is about a bill that wants to introduce order and wants to introduce supervision of financial operations. It is amazing that one institution that receives a billion and 200 million kuna of public funds, i.e. taxpayers' funds, does not have any control over financial operations. Such an institution in Croatia does not exist except for HRT. So can we afford such exclusivity, or HRT, that it is excluded from such supervision? No one can afford it, and we must not allow these funds to remain unsupervised because what we can see from the media is going to happen. I can't argue that everything that's written in the media is exactly what severances are given to people who don't actually leave work, what wages are, etc., but that's what needs to be determined, and that's why this law and this bill is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56465	Thank you. And esteemed colleague Kruno Markovinović, rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I have to do to correct my colleague, the Temple, who said that the announced TV subscription caused a shock with all the employees on TV. No way. She didn't cause the shock for all those dealers of her own production, which clearly sells television, financial mags that make huge money on importing non-quality series and non-quality movies for huge money, she didn't cause shock for those who aimlessly wander the television halls and do nothing anyway, so if they pay less and there will be a problem. But it's caused a shock precisely for all journalists who know they're the first to be hit, with technical staff, so for all those who work and whose work is measurable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56467	Thank you. Karolina Leaković, an esteemed colleague, applied for an individual debate because we exhausted all the club applications. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And in fact, at the very beginning, I express my dissatisfaction that we are discussing both proposals today, because I believe that the proposal to amend the Law on Croatian Radio Television, i.e. the proposal relating to the reduction of the amount, i.e. the percentage of the fee, should not have actually been on the agenda of this Croatian Parliament at all, because the new Law on Croatian Radiotelevision, in fact, defines the collection and distribution of fees, so I really do not see why the Government of the Republic of Croatia, except because of its short-term interests, sent this proposal to amend the law in the Assembly procedure, and we, of course, have spoken to the promoters on the Assembly committees, which means that I personally will not support the amendment of the Law on Croatian RadioTelevision, and also has a lot of objections about the proposal of the new Law on Croatian Radiotelevision, which has passed a wide public debate, however, and in this public debate, have actually crystal of many objections and the public opinion of the public opinion, which have been given. Unfortunately, this very proposal for a law which did not take good account of the proposals and remarks made in the public debate, although it is the representative of the promoter, so although it claims otherwise, it is indeed an etatization, i.e. the nationalisation of public television, and the work of amputation is in fact its role as not only an informative service, but also as a very important link in the Croatian cultural industry, and, above all, in the film production, because it is, I hope that all of us clearly that Croatian film actually does not have a hard time to be in the financing of Croatian film and its production. This will tell you everyone who deals with the film and who are actually involved in that part, at the end of the cultural industry. In fact, I would really just say a little bit about the fact that in the middle of a fiscal year it is actually very difficult to expect that a resolution or restructuring will occur in the way that the Government proposes it if one economic operator, or if, for example, public television in half a year is actually taking away the funds used to perform public services, i.e. for the achievement of the programme, it was not only informative but primarily documentary, educational, children's, dramatic, etc. And that's what the article 16 says. The proposal of the HRT Act which states that the independence of HRT is achieved through independent and stable financing of public service activities. It is precisely this draft law amending and the Law on HRT that speaks sufficiently of how much the Government cares about the independent and stable financing of the activity and the provision of public services if it proposes a reduction of the tax on which the public services are financed. It is also important to say that the reduction of the subscription will not reduce extra employees but will actually increase it because less money will produce fewer programs, which means that not only will many HRT employees be fired, it is a public secret, it is spoken of everywhere, at least unfortunately here in the Croatian Parliament, but contracts will also be cancelled for many external associates and associates. So, the HRT depends not only on people who are constantly employed there but also on many other authors and authors, the creators who are here taking part in the implementation of the HRT programme because I repeat HRT is not just an information programme, but the function of HRT is actually to achieve a public service in these other parts of its programme. I would also like to draw attention to Articles 10 and 11 of which are also warned by professional associations. First of all, the Association of Independent Producers and Associations of Croatian Film Directors, and these articles speak about the percentage of the programme to be broadcast in Croatian and talk about the amount HRT is obliged to provide for the production of the programme for the purchase of European works of independent producers, i.e. works of producers or Croatian producers. Producers expressed dissatisfaction by reducing the share, i.e. the percentage of works that must be broadcast originally in Croatian because they believe that such a rigidly formed percentage is in fact in some way rain and domestic production and that they will not be able to do so in some previous years, so to participate in competitions for providing services, i.e. production of domestic educational, scientific or playful and documentary programmes. Of course, we have already heard a lot of objections to the contract to be signed by HRT with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is in fact defined in Article 13, and of course I believe that it is part of Article 13 which speaks about the programme commitments of the HRT on the amount and source of funding for them, so that it is determined by the Treaty between HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a conflict with Article 16(2) which speaks of the independence of the HRT which is achieved through the independent exercise of activities and programming and editorial independence, in particular in the planning and production of the programme and the establishment of the programme. I would like to know how it will be independent and independent of HRT and how it will guarantee the independence of, therefore, software and editorial independence on HTV if the contract between HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will define the type, scope and content of all public services provided by HRT under this law, and therefore it is not clear what this contract contains and how the independence of HRT and its editors and editors will be defined in that contract. I also believe that it is therefore necessary to define Croatia's tasks more precisely and that it is not really a good formulation of the conclusion of the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia because, therefore, if the contract were to formulate these transactions in detail and if the provision in the contract were to be precise, it would actually be inflexible to editorial and authorial autonomy. I will say something briefly also, of course, about the role of the Supervisory Board and about the members of the Programme Council, i.e. about the selection of members of the Programme Council, because, as already said in some way about these 2 HRT bodies, about their role and how they work, in fact, was the most conflict during the public debate and the consensus has not yet been reached. This is why some articles are really sent to the alternative. I do not actually support the choice of members of the HRT Supervisory Board because it is such a way of choosing in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is appointed by the President and three members of the Supervisory Board while one member is a representative of the HRT Workers' Council. In fact, it allows majorisation of the ruling majority, and also when it comes to the selection of members of the Croatian Programme Council, which I believe that if the current proposal of Article 24 is actually adopted, it will actually turn into a debate club without any possibility of quality work, it will indeed lead to direct control and control of HRT here after 7 years of adoption of the first Law on HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56469	Thank you very much. Comrade Matušić, rectification of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56470	Well, I'm gonna make it right, so I don't know which way, so it's supposed to be an attempt on HRT's government. It's the thesis that my colleague Vujic put on today, which you SDP are now persistently repeating as parrots, and it obviously stems from the fact that you can't accept the fact that the law that you passed 6 or 7 years ago is so bad that it led to this bad situation on HRT and that this law simply needs to be changed because the situation has been brought to such an unsustainable situation that it simply needs to change the law. And secondly, when you talk about public content, you should consider what the Faculty of Political Sciences has recently claimed, that commercial television has more public content than HRT. And HRT gets a billion and 200 million kuna from the fee. So, I'm not saying that it's completely true, you should see what the Faculty of Political Sciences has done when it's hardening that fact, but you should consider that and it's coming but it's just... it's just the thesis that doesn't drink water, you should simply introduce control over HRT's finances and that's what you want to achieve here. And that's the green light from the European Commission, from her bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56471	The individual debate was attended by a distinguished representative, Vice-President of Parliament Zeljko Antunovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56472	Thank you very much, I will begin by joining the attitudes of those who consider absurd and inadmissible that we at the same time have in the procedure two laws relating to the same problem. I have been hearing for a few days about how inadmissible it is, how it is precedentd in Parliament practice, in fact, I have not heard from anyone in the ruling majority any valid reason, I would really like to know why that amendment and the addition of the old one, as Matusic said just before is not a valid, or disastrously bad law why he is in the procedure at all. I can understand that he was released into the procedure, and when a new bill has appeared that regulates the area and when both laws are in the ordinary procedure and there is no chance that one will be adopted before the other, why not give up on this absurd practice and why one single bill is not discussed, I say one and another proposal, one and the same procedure, the subject is being discussed. It's precisely from this fact that here's never withdrawing this amendment and supplementation, that I'm going to present my thesis, but also the arguments, that something is not how it should be, or as it's said in a colloquial way, something smells. When we talk about amendments and additions to this Act, when we talk about how we will further regulate and define Croatia's broadcasting as a public service. In fact, the insistent refusal of this first proposal that regulates only the way of financing, i.e. the level of financing of HRT as a public service, does not pull out of the procedure indicates a certain type of pressure against all HRT employees, and raises the question, that the thesis that is highly highlighted here in this Act is that it is the only guarantee and guarantee that HRT will be a public service, its free, independent and stable financing. The constant threat that this stable funding will be halved, reduced, questioned, made in fact a questionable one stable, creates an enormous amount of unnecessary pressure on Croatia's broadcasting. I'm only saying this from one aspect, and I'm saying this first before I talked about those remarks and what I'm doing on the Croatian radio, and what I think needs to be done in more detail with the amendments to the law, the new law. Even though we have so far had a good law that has in a good way created conditions for the formation of radio and television as a public service, it has unfortunately not happened. They are not satisfied with politicians, not those in power, not those in opposition, not satisfied with the public, they are not satisfied with professional associations, those associations that are in some way professionally related to HRT activity and this HRT activity as a public service, it seems to me that only those associated with HRT are satisfied with the commercial service. They worked well because HRT is a large production house, because HRT is a house that has had big money and has had enough money to invest in the ultimate commercial programmes besides creating non-commercial programs, and it was not clearly distinguished what is commercial and what is part of that non-commercial and public programme. And I think that in the new bill of law provisions that will separate commercially from the public need to find their place, I think there are such provisions in this proposal, and as far as I'm concerned, that part I'm willing to support. However, the whole law does not guarantee that HRT will be more public service in the future than it has ever been. On the contrary, I think that by applying all the provisions of this law if it stays here as it is written, that public interest will be at risk even more than it has ever been. The previous Law made it impossible and balanced the policy pressure on public service. During this time, the public service has been relieved of political pressures but unfortunately it has not been relieved of other pressures, of advertisers, of the pressure created by competition from private media, all of this has affected some events within the HRT that the public cannot be satisfied with, with which not all those who truly want HRT to be a public service can be satisfied. This Law regulates the management of HRT, the way it regulates HRT personneling, those who manage HRT, does not guarantee that this selection and management of HRT will be relieved of political pressure. In particular, Article 17 of the HRT authorities states that the joint action of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, as one body, will decide by a two-thirds majority, among other things on the appointment of the President of the Administration of the HRT, also on members of the management, statute, the HRT work programme on all the key matters which determine the functioning of the HRT during some period. When it is seen how it is proposed to form a supervisory board and how it is proposed to form a programme council, then it is quite clear, more clearly, that the influence of the government or the influence of the majority, the political majority in the parliament and the government will have a crucial impact on key decisions in HRT. This is majorisation, according to a colleague earlier, the influence of the policy or influence of the government, the ruling policy. Often, it is said that independent individuals or independent bodies should have a key and important impact within HRT, primarily on programmes, and then also on HRT management. I don't think there are any individuals that are completely independent and free, and that's why I belong to those who don't advocate being blinded by healthy eyes and choosing some institutions that will delegate their people and say they're independent people. They are not independent, they have their own opinions and will surely represent their own interests. What I advocate and seek, and I think it would be good for this law to be resolved and defined, that these different and individual interests are balanced and that no one has an absolute majority or that no one's interest is going to be the one to judge and decide what's good, which is not good, which is public, which is not public. We have too many experiences with different independent councils of HRT and we know how independent they were at all, how many groups, lobby groups that dragged or drove water to their mill within a public institution, within the framework of HRT as a public service. And that's why, since there's no room or time to talk about all the details, I'm in favour of those provisions in this bill that the HRT Program Council doesn't choose by the first alternative, but by the second alternative, I think it's much better to have a solution that's from the existing law, which has also proved to be not always ideal, which because of the inability of majorisation of anyone at this point led to the blockade, but better to have a blockade than to have a majorization of one political will compared to another. My time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56473	I'm sorry your time is up. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56474	Thank you. I want to replicate that there's a colleague's ability to respond and say more what she means. In fact, you colleagues have just said that no one is satisfied except those involved in the sale or production of a commercial, or exclusively commercial part when we talk about television product. So no one else in the public sector is satisfied, that's what you said, so you listed professional associations, this, what, politics, etc. So you admit that no one is satisfied with what HRT is doing except for those who produce a commercial program and who make a living on that commercial program. So I'm surprised that you object to exactly what we're looking for, to introduce control over this part that's being financed from the public part of the fee, to introduce control over these finances, what money is being spent on, and what content and nothing else. I think you underestimate journalists when you speak in a way that is now a kind of pressure on all those who work on HRT that now they will start acting differently, they will have different attitudes. It's simply not true and it's unacceptable. I think you totally underestimate people who work on HRT because they certainly won't change their minds about it. Whether the fee will be less than 25% or not, they will not change their views or their views. I'm quite certain of that. But if we want to put order in this part of financial terms, we want to make it clear because the billions and 200 million kunas that are now derived from this fee are completely unsupervised. The situation now in the Programme Council has also led to this absurdity that it is simply the result of a bad law to be amended. And that's what we want to do now and nothing more than that, no influence, no majorization like you're trying to present. I said it already, it's the thesis of fellow Vujic, whom you unfortunately repeat as a parrot, but what we can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56475	Replication response. ... Unfortunately, my great and yours, unfortunately. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] My colleagues, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56476	I don't know where my colleague Matusic is getting these thesises, I think I'm opposed to surveillance. On the contrary, I'm not opposed to surveillance at all, I'm opposed to supervision in your way, and your way is not to have you oversee something but to put it in, to energize it or to subjugate it. Count the simple number of members of the Supervisory Board, count the number of members of the Programme Council, the way these bodies form on the proposal, and you'll get a nice look at who decides who chooses the director, who chooses the board, who makes all the key decisions on HRT. I do not object to supervision, I do not think that supervision should be, and I advocate one impartiality and advocate that system, I will repeat, which will balance the various political and commercial interests and allow professionalism on HRT to prevail. And not only does professionalism work on its own and becomes what will be a guarantee of public service, but the system produces this professionalism which unfortunately sometimes has more on commercial televisions today than on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56477	Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, at first I'd like to say nothing bad will happen to HRT, except that we'll finally know and it'll settle this law that goes, I repeat, in two readings and that, of course, everything that's useful and cleverly said here will be heard. So funding should be transparent. I hope it's finally remembered here even though one of my colleagues is going to say that my colleagues on my right are repeating like parrots, or maybe it's because of that corn, so I don't know any more with those birds, animals and so on. So, for what we get on public television, we'll finally get the real bill and we won't just have the shows written on the account, but we'll know exactly what we're paying for and why we're paying it and eventually the bill will be signed. As for journalists and calling for their professionalism, I think that a large part of Croatian broadcasters are doing their job with honor and professionality, and as for those who may be hiding a little, I don't think they'll be happy with the adoption of this law, because they'll finally know who, what, how much and when it works. But let us return to the goals for which this law is passed. Therefore, it wants to maintain, strengthen and affirm Croatian broadcasting as an independent and stable public service which is important for cultural and media diversity, pluralism and certainly for democracy. I can see that my colleagues are having a good time here on my right. It's funny, isn't it? Well, that's what it says in what the law refers to. I don't know what's funny. Therefore, they also want to ensure the conditions in which Croatian broadcasting will perform its public function, while at the same time not to violate the competition because this law directly and indirectly affects not only the HRT, but also the entire market for electronic media in the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, it wants to ensure responsible and stable management of HRT and financial stability of Croatian broadcasters in accordance with the Croatian tradition and recommendations of the European Union. In the drafting of the new law, the proposer was also faced with the current situation on HRT. That's what we heard today. So we didn't have such a perfect law. We have a management crisis, which is certainly the result of a poor legislative framework. We had a surveillance crisis, a financial situation, we heard what he was like. Dependence on the creative industry sector on HRT, the advertising market crisis, the need for restructuring and digitisation. The draft law on HRT also regulates the status of HRT as a public institution which the Republic of Croatia undertakes to provide public broadcasting services. Public activity is defined. There was a question here how it would work out. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In addition to existing television and radio programmes, the launch of two new specialized television channels is also envisaged, and it is important that this bill defines commercial activity. There's been a lot of questions about that. Definition of the content and functions of public services is one of the most important parts of this law. Namely, the draft law details the public service provided by Croatian broadcasters, and provides for the conclusion of contracts between the Croatian and Croatian Government to regulate the programme obligations of HRT in the five-year period as well as the financial framework of its operations. We heard the beginning would be three years, and in later years it would be five years. This precisely defined content of the public service is an obligation to comply with the law on state aid, but it will certainly allow for a better quality of work by all HRT bodies of particular programme and financial supervision bodies. Now a few words about the contract. Therefore, the introduction of a contract is one of the biggest newspapers of this law. What we also heard from the promoters, the secretary of state said they relied on a European model such as many states. We were already talking about the BBC, we were talking about Belgium, we were talking about Denmark, and what I want to remind you is that a consensus within the task force has been reached for all of this. The contract also defines the programme obligations of the HRT and the amount and source of funding for them, and the contract will contain the type, scope and content of all public services provided by the HRT under the law. I remind you once again, and there's been a lot of controversy about who's signing it. Therefore, Croatian Radio and Government with an important role of the Programme Council and mandatory public debate. The way the contract is negotiated will therefore be a democratic public debate. It will be run by Croatian Radio Television, and what the law predicts are so-called The fuses we didn't have in this existing law, and the fuses will make it impossible for what we have today, which is chaos, which is that HRT can't work. For example, if no contract is signed, it will be applied as only a regulatory act in a part in which it is not contrary to State aid rules, the introduction of significant new services, a negative definition of services not to be provided. The existence of a contract will ensure that the Programme Council can perform its functions better where there will be a contract with certain clear criteria for fulfilling that public function. This should also ensure a better organisation and planning on Croatian broadcasting, as one cannot be planned. Then there's no money for it, and we're bringing in, so the program and the ones that should secure the money for it. Once again, I repeat the more transparent spending of funding and the possibility that the interested public for which Croatian Radio TV and there is an accurate knowledge of what pays and coffee service for these funds can expect. The management's already been talked about. I'd just like to say a few words about the Programme Council. So there are two suggestions. I'm personal to this alternative to 11 council members. So one is proposal 15, the other is 11. I think the Programme Council should have 11 members. I'll look back on just one more thing, a remark that's come up on the Committee on Information and Media. It is an observation that the fee will also have to be paid by those who are unable to receive a digital or analogue signal. That won't be the case. So there's no such fear, because we're predicting signing a statement. A few more words about advertising on radio channels. It is limited to 9 minutes, and on television channels to 9 minutes, with what we call being admitted to it between 1800 and 22:00 hours is about 6 minutes. A note to the end. Croatian Radio Television must not use fees and other public revenues to finance the commercial activities of Croatian Radio Television as clearly provided for and defined by the law. So the government states the law in two readings. I think a lot of things will still be said, but there's no law to be afraid of. We should not be afraid of the imperfections of the laws that were in the existing law and which in some way produced chaos for us, but I think that we should all work together in the interest of public television, and not just for political reasons, saying that it will become like this or that I really honestly think that there is a quality journalistic staff in Croatia who can professionally perform his duty, I hope that it will be, and we are all here together to provide them with a legal framework, and I think we are on a good path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56479	Thank you. Three corrections, one replica. First Amendment, Vice-President of the House Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56480	It's very short. I just wanted to correct my colleague Glavak, she was talking about the parrot vote. My fellow Glavak, parrots don't vote for corn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56481	What's the parrot's name? Second replica, Ms. Representative Karolina Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56482	I've also raised a plate of corrections to an incorrect quote, not a replica, so I'd make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56483	Well, it's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56484	Yeah, all right. Therefore, in its statement, the colleague stated that the HRT Act accurately defined the public services provided by HRT. That's not true. They are not precisely defined, they are precisely defined as stated in Article 13 of the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia containing the type, scope and content of all public services provided by the HRT under this law. So it's not exactly the law, it's the HRT contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56485	And Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56486	The Honorable colleague found it and I am correcting that poor governance of Croatian broadcasting is the result of a poor legislative framework. If that's the case, then it's completely pointless today's debate. The causes are much deeper than can be defined through one sentence like this. It is also about lack of vision and mission and experience of the real role of Croatian radiotelevision as a public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56487	Replica, Ms. Representative, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Glavak, I really agree with your debate, and I will take advantage of the opportunity in this replica to put it this way once again just to express why it is necessary to pass a law like this, why we must advocate that indeed Croatian broadcasting becomes a public service to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that we are indeed talking about it, and here is what happened on July 1st 2010. It writes the Croatian Chamber of crafts, and the President of the Chamber of crafts Mr Mate Topic and addresses Croatian broadcasting, of course here he asked that we, too, in this debate, warn the same thing. So on July 1st, there was a formal academy held on the Day of the Croatian Chamber of crafts in Zagreb, the sponsor of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In May, they sent a memo to Croatia on recording and so on. However, no one has spoken, no one has found fit to come, although they have sent a journalist, and their letter is next, I ask you nicely to listen to it, as Croatian craftsmen say, and there are few. At a time when we are on all sides covered by negative news, about the closure of small and large economic operators, and the loss of jobs, we believe that a positive story about the distribution of prizes to craftsmen, who have managed to improve their jobs over the past years, especially during the time of the economic and financial crisis and who have hired new workers and opened new plants, certainly deserves their place on central information emissions. Over 92,000 craftsmen and about 220 thousand craft employees, as an important part of Croatia's co-economy, but as citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56489	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56490	Here's just one second, please. As citizens of the Republic of Croatia and bonds of Croatian subscription. Likewise they have the right to their minute, and that's exactly what we talked about about the contributions of corn, sweat and the contributions of carps with... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56491	Thank you. Madam representative, reply to the replica. Madam representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of the twilight, and, of course, as a representative, if something comes to her as representatives and she has to speak for her. I'd just like to look back once more, yes, exactly, we have a management crisis, which is the consequence of a poor legislative framework, if someone may not have understood it. So translated we didn't have a good law and we have to change it. I hope everyone understands it now. And what will the new law bring? The new law, I repeat once again, will introduce order and citizens in Croatia, if they say we have the right to know about everything, so we have the right to know about the millions of amounts we invest in Croatian broadcasting, I say to me, each citizen individually, and he has the right to know where and how this money is spent. If someone doesn't understand, we can repeat this notor fact five hundred more times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56493	And Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56494	My colleague Glavak, I agree with you that we must all stand up for objective public television, but as long as public television is no matter what government or party is in power, as long as individual editors order journalists to speak, there is no happiness from public television, and unfortunately we all know that in Croatia well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56495	Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the Law on Croatian Television, of course we discuss the whole issue of Croatian television and evaluate whether we are satisfied, we are not, what are the basic tasks of Croatian television as a public media, how public expectations are met, how political parties view it, how different other stakeholders view it. The law itself states quite nicely that Croatian broadcasting is due, but the question is whether it is properly fulfilled. Are those who pay for Croatian television, and these are primarily subscribers? Of course, if the Republic of Croatia wants to have a quality public service, real information, availability to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then that should be paid. The question is actually appreciates how much this should pay, whether what is paid is an adequate security service. What we want, in which way we want, whether we are satisfied, we are not, the most reluctance always and certainly challenges the issue of political equality, different political options on Croatian television, but let us promote this little perhaps from the point of view of sport. Are we satisfied with the way Croatian athletes are shown? Or it all comes down to public television on athletes who are professionals, who make extremely big money, while completely ignoring just those athletes who bring Croatian Olympic medals, who are also worth studying and who are likely to be the pillars of society. So perhaps that part of the Croatian population that might call them the most valuable part of the Croatian population. Is there room adequate on HRT? Or the sports newsroom is also used for some additional sources of income, journalists, editors. Do some journalists and editors have their own marketing agencies with which athletes who want to provide themselves with some space and have additional sponsors make contracts, and these in turn provide them with some space on HRT to return services to those who sponsor these athletes. Is that a healthy relationship? Is this one relationship that is allowed if it's about television paid by all subscribers in the Republic of Croatia? And how is it only when it comes to political promiscuity? Is it acceptable to have those so-called. bonuses in the pre-election campaign when based on the size of the order lowers the price up to 50%, but only for some. Of course, it's not equality and it's something that's not acceptable because it opens up the possibility of different manipulations. And then the question arises when it comes to political shows, first of all, is there really an equality? Are all political options, all attitudes and all opinions equally represented? It's certain they're not and we can't be satisfied with that. But when it comes to this model, the newly proposed, HRT financing based on the connection to the power grid, then it's one pointless proposal. The question is, in fact, how much does the Croatian TV system cost to charge taxes and is it the cheapest objectively possible? We have so far had one system of special charges, so HRT had one special right to charge. There are a number of people working on that fee, but the question is, is that effective? Can this be arranged in a more efficient way for smaller people to do a job that may be unnecessary? And now we come with a new proposal based on the connection to the power grid, and in case it's not about such users then on motor vehicles. And then we include in the entire system and HEP, or the distribution network operator of the power grid that has to deliver the data on subscribers, and then the data on the owners of motor vehicles must also be delivered because they also enter this payment system. Is this an optimal collection system, or is it perhaps simpler, cheaper from the state budget on the basis of the funds collected by tax, to pay a certain amount of HRT needed for the service provided? It's probably cheaper, but then why are we entering this complicated process that only requires more and more employees who don't actually do something productive than just transfer money from one side to the other. So let's not complicate what's not necessary. We can handle it from the state budget. Of course, it was awkward at this point to separate funds from the state budget because there's already been a Special Tax stalking. But it's a cheaper way to raise funds. I don't know if there's anywhere in the world. I doubt it, probably not. And it's really through that I'd say it's pointless. And then the question is ultimately the very criminal provisions for not applying these laws where they are said to buy the rights to transfer higher than the price that is on the market, which is already a criminal offence. Therefore, it enters the area of criminal law and therefore there are specific institutions for this purpose provided for in our society. They need to deal with such situations. So something that comes out of the usual business, something that enters the area of criminal and criminal law should be dealt with by the competent institutions. And as for the criminal provisions by which HRT should actually be paid a fine, to whom? The Republic of Croatia is spending the state budget in case it does not adhere to this. Penalties for authorized persons are something else. That certainly makes sense, and whether they are applied and how many such situations have been so far, it is doubtful. So precisely because of this pointless collection system that actually increases the cost of the entire tax collection process and the insurance of the HRT funds I will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56497	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Agent Iron Flego, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56498	Public television certainly promotes public well-being or it must be in its definition and I will also mention a survey of the Media and Communication Research Centre, so the scientific and research units of the Faculty of Political Sciences that determines, therefore monitoring the development of the '59 television programme. until 2009. and determines that high social value programs on HRT are represented by 61%, on one private television or commercial television with 9%, and on another commercial TV with 11%. And that speaks of the importance of public television. On the importance of public television or Public Service Broadcasting, colleague Matušić, the body in which you and I are a member, namely the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, brought 10 documents on the importance of public television, on the need to support public television and public radio at national and European level and on the appropriate, therefore on an adequate way of managing public television in order to remain independent. So it's 2000, since '94. the year since the meeting of ministers in Prague until, say, the Reykyavia Conference or the communication of the European Commission from 7 months 2009 which are all in favour, or in the final consensus on the recommendations of the ministerial meeting, so the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from 2009 and 1083 of the meeting of ministers on 21/04.2010, where they say the key support of the Public Service Broadcasting is, therefore, the service of public broadcasting of television and radio. Because they promote democracy, because they promote human rights, because the public media is, to the greatest extent, those who have the contents of the general state interest, and not that they tend not to mention reality show and other situations. The problem with this Law seems to me that if you listened well to the president of the ruling coalition club, if you listened well to it, in that the Supervisory Board is not only a body of financial supervision, but the Supervisory Board is a body of the administration of public television. That's the problem. The problem is that the Supervisory Board enters all key public television activities, proposed by the government. The problem is that the Supervisory Board as referred to in Article 17 together with the HRT Council as one body makes a whole series of decisions that are crucial to public television. Let's say he appoints a president of the board, let's say he brings in a work programme, which is in the CROAT board's jurisdiction, so the work programme is a substantial activity of television. The Supervisory Board with the council now brings together a programme of work of Croatian Radio Television. And in fact, the state is intruding into our public activity, better said the Government, and if we already have a public institution, such as education, such as health care, such as public television, such as public media, then it is optimal that they are managed by the highest but widest political instance, which is Parliament, Parliament and not Government. The National Committee’s ingenuities are very eloquent in Article 13, forgive the Supervisory Board, Article 13, under which the Government makes contracts with Croatian Radio Television and the Government orders public services from public television, the Government. Where such public television will become not only politicized, not only by the government but mostly by the party, where I mean not only you, but also us. Don't think we wouldn't have people with us who wouldn't have the appetite to rule television. And that's why it's the law that needs to be stopped regulatoryly. Not improve and enable. And that is why we should use those not only experiences but also the normative demands of that society that we seek and which we believe we will be there in 2, 3 years, so to European standards. It seems to me that there is still some difficulty for public television independence, which is the Council for Electronic Media, a para-institution that has received enormous powers. Watch out, the Council for Electronic Media, and not for example the Parliamentary Committee, or the constituency that will appoint the Assembly Committee or the Parliament's prey, shall call and implement the selection procedure of members of the HRT Council, etc. So it seems to me, then the Supervisory Board decides on the level of the fee together with the Council of Electronic Media, and there seems to me to be one predominance of the government and politics over the public institution and its independence, and there seems to me to be that proportionality against which we raise our voice and we think that it is simply not good and that at the very end of the context that is politically meaningful. There are several techniques, I'll just mention some that hurt my eye, not to say whistled in my ear, sports events of premium content, Article 9(3), paragraph 4, Article 21(3), media study, there is no study of journalism and communication at least for now or a study of media. And you finally have a contradiction of Article 31(2) and Article 37(1), in one place, the odd fees and revenues of Croatian broadcasters are understood as State aid, which you have literally copied from some European documents, because, for example, the BBC receives state support but does not apply to all members of the European Union and does not apply to Croatia. In order to properly apply adequate terminology in Article 31(2), where public and commercial revenues of Croatian broadcasting are mentioned, not state support. And finally, given that this law is crucial for both democracy and human rights and for the simple availability of information, I would very much like it to be adopted by consensus and I hope that the proposings will find a way to find a consensus at the level of perhaps certain experts, among those who would propose ruling, those who would propose opposition, to reach an appropriate agreement and thus establish at least a normative Croatian television in a way that would be acceptable and satisfying to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56499	Thank you. Madam Representative Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go. I guess it's a replica. Mr. Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't see any reason for my colleague Flego, obviously there's been some misunderstanding. In fact, it is absolutely certain that public support, i.e. public funding that goes towards public television, is extremely significant and is dependent on public television and, of course, on it depends on its functioning, it is not questionable, it will not be questionable either in the future or not questionable. When we talk about the reduction then we talk about the reasons for the reductions in the current circumstances, but there is no question of any support for public television. But that support must be clearly monitored how it is spent. So it's very important to see what the contents are related to this support because it can't really be really, there's not much you can realize that it's in the interest of public good that we see on public television. I think that's where we agree on both sides. And I absolutely agree that it is both the ruling coalition and you who are now in opposition, that it was absolutely in the interest to pass a law that will, of course, remain absolutely and always guarantee the independence of the work of public television and that is in the interest of all of us. But we want to come up with a solution that will be on track to know exactly how and why the funds that are given to public television for public good and for general good have been spent. And I believe we agree here, too. And I believe that we will agree that the current situation is not good, and it is unfortunately the result of a law that was passed 7 years ago, which is obviously bad because it is a framework in which it is obviously not possible to solve certain situations, it cannot solve certain problems that appear today and appear at such an acute stage that is not simply acceptable and cannot be further tolerated. And that's why it's important that this law is passed as soon as possible, we can talk about how certain parts need to be fixed, perhaps this part of which you've been talking about hitting the Supervisory Board, perhaps in a section of some other bodies like the Programme Council. Of course, this is the first reading and, of course, it is absolutely certain that this proposal should also be considered so that only the work of the Supervisory Board may be derived from it because its primary function is supervision, financial supervision of the institution itself, television itself. So I think there's absolutely no difference in our views in this respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56501	Replication response, Mr. Representative Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56502	Thank you very much. Col. Matušić started with misunderstandings about what he was saying, was misunderstandings I failed to detect in fact. In the vast majority of cases, we agree, unless I understand you correctly, that the European view of our existing solution is inadequate, if I understand correctly. But look, we have so far had the ability to control the spending of Croatian television. If I'm not mistaken, there were audits regularly in that house. ... No, no, there was a state audit on HTV. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But she was. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it seems to me that the law, the existing legal solution, is not bad but that the current state of affairs is the result of the non-application of these legal solutions, not the literal application of the law. And finally, I would certainly like to agree with you that it would be necessary to bring the law together, even if minimalist, which we can all agree on and then work together to further improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56503	And Madam Representative Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. So here at the beginning of my debate I will first of all point out that I am glad that the Law on Croatian Television has come into practice and, of course, we all expect that it will be far better than this one that is now in force. It has often happened to us that some of the provisions of this law, and we didn't really, I don't get it, we may have understood them, but they were very difficult to apply in practice, so here's what I believe is going to work out with this bill. Of course, Croatian broadcasting is a public service, public television and it is not a dispute, we all want it and I don't think it's a question at all. However, I will take a brief look at a few remarks at the very beginning which, I would rather say the good proposals that I received during this debate from the Croatian Alliance of Deaf and Deaf. So they have a few suggestions, so here's a little bit to think about it. I think until the second reading there's room for us to find some kind of common solution, too. In particular, they suggest that in Article 6(2), when it is said that HRT is obliged to gradually make its audiovisual media services available to persons with hearing and visual impairment. They suggest that this word be gradually deleted. I'll try to explain why. When we talk about a gradual availability to say so, then unfortunately, people with disabilities in some way are afraid that it will never be. And back in a few years, people with disabilities with Croatian Radio Television are negotiating, talking, negotiating, and I have to commend the part that was well done, and there are good things, but there are certainly some things where we think that the leaders on Croatian radio or have no hearing or understanding. There are some things that have not been resolved to this day. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, signed by Croatia, clearly regulates these things, so among other things, I will not list all the details, but I will say that it regulates raising levels of consciousness, accessibility, etc. So who else but Croatian radiotelevision must first of all be preceded by raising the level of consciousness. So, if he stays here gradually, I'm not really sure if it's going to be raising awareness of all the people with disabilities and all the people with disabilities because let's not forget, there's a way to sensitize and raise awareness not only of those with disabilities but also of the disabled. So it's such a well-intentioned remark. The following would refer to Article 8 when they think that where HRT is said to be required in the programmes to be used in the Croatian language and Latin letter, they think that the sign language should be placed there, regardless of the fact that Croatia has no sign language law yet, but the convention has predicted sign language as there is an official language for people with hearing damage. Furthermore, one of my thoughts is Article 9 paragraph 2 of the 7th, which I commend, and I must say right away, is that this law has taken so much care of people with disabilities. It is said here that HRT is therefore obliged to adapt, produce, co-produce and publish programmes for people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. I don't think this is the happiest thing to say. So, no programs intended for us, so people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties because I'm not going to say that we need it the least, but we certainly know more about it than the rest. However, I think it would be a happy solution if programmes on people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties were said here. So, a little bit of a different word, but that would apply then, so it would be programs about us that would be worth the same to everyone, who would be able to watch that, of course, when we say that these are programs about people with disabilities, then we kind of raise them up like I did before I said the level of consciousness to everyone else. In the same article, and in paragraph 4, the Croatian Federation of Deaf and Deaf considers that sport should be included in people with disabilities. We all know here I am on several occasions mentioning a pair of Olympic, winter pairs of Olympic games this year held in Canada. Croatian television did not arrive because the programmes were moved. So, I dare say that the sport of people with disabilities is not always as attractive as the sport of people without disabilities, and let's not forget the large number of medals our couples won in Vancouver and Croatia have honored, so with great celebration and presentation of Croatia in Beijing at a couple of Olympics, in the most brightest way possible than Croatian Olympics. So we think that's where we should include the sport of people with disabilities. Furthermore, as far as the HRT Programme Council is concerned, I personally believe that the Council should have, as there are now 11 members, that that is quite enough. However, I would argue, here is some way to alternative Article 24. I think he's a better solution and here's how much from the debate we can see and most colleagues somehow support that alternative with the completion. It is in this article and in the current law, so there are some of the same specifics. I think we should do it a little bit more so we don't have to be vague and how to, and when it comes to the election of members of the HRT Programme Council, we know exactly what to do and how to do. And if he stays like this, that is, I'm giving what's on my mind to include one expert representative of people with disabilities among all those who already exist here. And here I see my time is slowly running out. I'll look back briefly on the fee. As far as the fees are concerned, I support the general need, so that it should be reduced for the reason that in these moments, Croatian citizens are absolutely eager to expect it, and when it comes to Article 34 which speaks about the fee, then here I suggest that we consider when the Supervisory Board makes a decision on the level of the fee here it is stated that it can also decide on the release of certain categories from the payment of the fee. When it's said it can, then it's a question of whether or not it's going to be. I suggest that we think about putting on a supervisory committee to make a decision to exempt from paying the tax of certain categories. I mean, of course, people with disabilities here, by proposing that the Supervisory Board, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Commission, develop the conditions previously for persons with disabilities, so under which they will release persons with disabilities from paying the fee. Of course they can't all be released, but certain categories would have to be. Of course, it must be known by what criteria, so that we do not have the situation exactly as it is today and which has been going on for a very long time. Anyway, here I support the adoption of this law in first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56505	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and colleagues. So here is the proposal for a law on Croatian radiotelevision means harmonising the existing law with the Law on Electronic Media and the provisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Decision on the publication of rules on state aid for broadcasting services. I would like to stress that the harmonisation of the law began in October 2009 when a working group was established in the Ministry of Culture. So, parallelly as the ministry prepared the Final Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media. This law goes into two readings which testifys that there is no rush, let alone any pressure on HRT that colleagues on the left hand side of this assembly are trying to, namely, claim and try to convince the public that this law puts pressure on Croatian broadcasting. This draft law regulates the activity of HRT in two ways, first as a public service and as a commercial activity in this respect with clearly delimited sources and the purpose of spending funds, so that, in this proposal, double accounting is prescribed and managed in order to avoid the use of funds derived from the tax, commercial content, as well as those from which the provision of services, i.e. commercial activities for public purpose. I am particularly pleased that in Article 5, the promoter said that the programming principles in this law, the bill was slightly changed in relation to the existing ones, but I am pleased that Article 5 complemented by artistic, children's and sports content. I'm glad we all agreed in the debate on the need to introduce a supervisory board. This law amends the Croatian authorities, from the existing head of HRT, directorship and programme council, the draft law introduces the Supervisory Board in the management of HRT and the Programme Council. As the proposal for a law which has 58 articles and which is somewhat shorter than the old one who had 67, and I believe that part of this is going on, it follows from the fact that this bill does not define and regulate the internal structure of the HRT, because it is left to be governed by the statute, however, even for five articles, alternatives have been given, in Article 23(2), which determines the number and composition of the programming council, in Article 24, which speaks of the appointment of members of the programming council, Article 26 of the procedure for the resolution of members of the programming council, in Article 36(3), limits the broadcasting of promotional messages on specialised channels, and Article 50 of the transitional and final provisions are laid down in the obligation to call for tenders for a new programming council, on the alternative whether this will be done by the Assembly, or by means of the Council for the electronic media. I must immediately say that I am putting these alternatives to remain in the final bill of law. I'll tell you why. Some here have objected to the authority, or part of the circle given by this bill to the Supervisory Committee. First of all, colleagues and colleagues, I think we all agree that if the total income that Croatian broadcasting at year level is made in a billion-and-a-half, that it is necessary to introduce a body, we agreed, only here is clear that, that we did not agree on the composition of that supervisory board, but that spending a billion-and-a-half should be controlled and supervised. Under the cover of the etatization of Croatian broadcasting, colleagues and colleagues on the left hand side of the assembly, you deny the responsibility of the owner for the business of this public institution, whose founder is the Republic of Croatia, and the founding rights are exercised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Although, to remind you of my colleagues and colleagues, this morning in the debate on amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, because of the established election of members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies in the majority state-owned state through public tenders, you claimed that this did not remove the government's responsibility for the business of companies owned by the majority state. The Programme Council is responsible for the programme and implementation of the programme principles, in which this bill will make it much easier for us to follow and monitor the implementation of programme principles in the Croatian Radio Television Programme by means of a contract signed by the Supervisory Board with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law makes it even clearer than what this existing one defines as an independent regulator, which is the Council for Electronic Media, which plays a role in monitoring the work of Croatian Radio Television. I am personally in favour of the supervisory board, however much they object, just as it chooses and appoints management in companies, I advocate that it should be in the jurisdiction of the supervisory board and Croatian broadcasters, because this way, which makes this way together the programming board and the supervisory board in many ways complicated the situation. With the composition and the number of members of the programming council, I said I already advocated the alternative, I don't think there should be an increase in the number of members of the programming council from the existing 11 to the 15, because we've had a lot of problems with these 11 too. What I propose is to further develop a final draft of the law, somewhere define the form of the report which, both the programme council and the Croatian Board of Supervisors and the Supervisory Board are obliged to deliver to the Croatian Assembly. Since so far reports of neither the existing financial management nor the programming council on the implementation of the programming principles have achieved this and the rest have not been achieved, and unfortunately this for 2008 which is waiting for the order to appear unanimously unacceptable to me. I can see from the papers in this law that even members of the council, the programming council, have an annual work fee, while, as I welcome, while in the existing law, it was that they did not receive financial compensation for their work, they did not receive any financial compensation. I would also refer to Article 34, which found that the amount of the monthly fee, which is up to 1 and a half percent, and that difference, to colleagues on the left, between the amendment and the addition of the HRT Act, and this bill proposal, was established here up to a maximum of 1 and a half percent of the average net monthly salary of employees in the Republic of Croatia, that the amount of the monthly fee for each year was determined by the Supervisory Board, with the prior approval of the Electronic Media Council that the fee was in accordance with the contract referred to in Article 13 of this Law. This Decision may lay down the privileges for certain categories of payment obligations. I would like to refer to the problems with which school principals spoke to me, because TVs in schools, at the time they were teaching aids, each classroom had a TV set, and then the school was supposed to pay for each existing TV set that made it difficult for them. I've seen that in an explanation that there's an opportunity to pay for one, so it would make it a lot easier and... And business schools, but not just schools, maybe some social institutions and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From what I'm told, I will support this law and I strongly recommend that provisions of these alternative articles be incorporated in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56507	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The procedural manner in which we adopt and discuss this Law on HRT and the creativity of the Government in this procedural group goes beyond Mr. Vice President and your most creative moments. So, in the draft agenda, we have two proposals for the HRT Act. One small of the 2 articles that is the Law amending the law and the other is a large and one systematic Law on HRT. This first, small law, came by emergency procedure, and as a reason of urgency, I will quote: "preventing or removing major economic disturbances in the context of economic recovery." And this second law came a month after that by regular procedure, and it does not contain what is changed in this small law. So, under the proposal of this small law, the subscription should be 60 kuna due of course to these removals of economic difficulties, and according to this great law should be 80 kuna again. This means that, in fact, the Ministry of Culture is directly working against the government's economic recovery programme. On public television, there was a British series that could actually, in which things like this could be possible, called the Monthya Certified Flying Circus, and I think that just reminded me of it. And now we're going to talk about this little law. Therefore, the Act amending the Law on HRT has only 2 articles. One says the number 1.5 is going to be replaced by 1,125. Translated to the number language meant that the TV subscription from 80 kuna would be reduced to 60 kuna. Once we have united the debate, it would be more natural for me to have this law on the reduction of the subscription brought together there with pedagogical standards because this is a pure pedagogical law where pedagogical measures are implemented against the directorship and administration of the HRT so that they get a little chilly and bring it so little orderly because obviously things got out of hand. Indeed, after it was due to be reduced to 60 kuna, journalists, but also management, rebelled first. So then the management came to the prime minister, and then they had a nice chat, and there was probably some non-attack deal so that for a while, the subscription would remain 80 kuna, and on the other hand, the management would say a little to the press that they were reporting to the prime minister a little bit, at least it says on the Index portal, 05.07.2010. However, in order for these not to be too relaxed, the law is not withdrawn from the procedure but sent from the emergency procedure to the regular procedure, so we will see whether those from the HDZ Youth Administration will be good, so if they are not good, then the law will come back to another reading and the subscription will be reduced, and if they are good, then a little further debate will be extended. Something similar happened a few years ago when the insistent Minister Shucker insisted that VAT from HRT would be charged, and then when they all rebelled, they probably came back to the then Prime Minister Sanader, and then after the deal they triumphantly agreed that the tax would not be charged, and of course, we see history repeating itself. When television gets out of control, then a little bit of pressure on these financial sanctions and then it's all back to normal again. We're familiar with the epilogue, and in the end Mrs. Hloverka came to be director of the program, and then, on Facebook, a lot of pictures of people and public ones started to appear, but also of the others with censorship. Comments on this, we've already heard a lot of comments about it. I can only conclude every time the elections get closer then Mrs. Hloverka returns to some leadership function. '99. You're not saved by the work of a Kosovoer, nor will Mrs. Hloverka save you now. As regards other provisions of these laws that are being amended, there is now a technical paper, which means that now the bonds of payment of the TV subscription as proposed in Article 33 will be those that have a connection to the electricity. However, it should be said, the formulation is like this: "everyone who owns or owns a radio and television receiver, or another device for receiving a radio or audiovisual programme, is obliged to pay HRT a monthly fee." Given technological progress today, TV and HRT can be viewed via laptops, you can watch over these slightly stronger phones. So it is questionable that it is a receiver and what is a receiver for receiving audiovisual content? Thus, it may still be necessary to define more precisely in Article 33 what is happening. This newspaper, therefore, is being introduced by the Supervisory Board, and then he will have influence, what Mr. Flego was saying, on these programming things, etc., so that's logical. It's one attempt at a little more government action on public television than it's ever been before. So this goes according to what happens if it passes. So we'll give it to the first reading, there'll be something to talk about. Maybe something stays, maybe something doesn't. If the Europeans stop talking then we'll do it, if they hit us a little bit on the fingers, then we'll ease it up how it usually works when it comes to the media. During each coup in any African or Latin American country, one of the first buildings that the military, if it does a coup, is usually done by the military, is occupied by the television building. So if you don't take television like nothing ever happened. So, before each election, try a little bit, of course not in this way, a little institutionally occupied television, so as far as it works, I only hope that after the amendment of this law, therefore HRT will not become Croatia's far-sighted Zagreb – a shortened HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56509	I am deeply touched and touched by your deep brotherly humor that you have recognized in me by an excellent designer and productive who stands, a creative who has not surpassed this lawmaker. I honestly thank you from the bottom of my heart and to the party court please don't place it because the esteemed representative didn't deserve it, this commendation he gave me was a little spicy with a lot of irony, so be assured that he didn't mean dishonest to me when he said that from my projects workshop it. Please don't ask for him for mercy or relief, he's got enough of what he's said is the greatest punishment, and you're asking for it. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56510	I think that today we are talking about such a serious topic that every political option here should be clear that public television talk is not something that is for single use, so throw itself away, which serves only some political option, so what happens later, is something that is really of general interest, and especially in a society where I say so terrorized by the rush of mediocrity, with the rush of stupidity, often through the media without insulting honest, smart, hardworking media workers, which is a good hummus where the population of all kinds succeeds. So this terror of triviality, sometimes the terror of underestimating an individual's common sense, can be successful in a society that's on average poorly educated, like ours. In a society where oral surrender is still the main form of conveying thoughts and ideas. So when you add a picture to that, then you get something that can be called and it doesn't have to be television, and you get consummation, the average of our citizen doesn't read a whole book annually. So, under such conditions, public television responsibility is very important, and for me, the data that our colleague Iron Flego presented that Croatian television with 60% de facto of its contents covers what would be a public interest or something that in commercial television is represented by one with 9 and the other with 11%, is still talking about how we deal with very sensitive things when we talk about television, and especially when we edit its future as we do here through these bill proposals. If really soap operas have become a personification for something that is happening on television, then we really need to be careful that those of you who should be most interested not to fill the board of Croatia's radio television with such proposals, which because of the one-time and political selfish dimension of life, might not have brought it down to some political maid, to what is often referred to here as the etatization of public television, its stateship or thus resisting someone's political car. This role of the Supervisory Board, as envisaged, warns of this. I am the last to tolerate and who is glad to see some things happen that are cloudy or can be cloudy about the financial situation and the financial situation on television, but it can't be an excuse to destroy the essence of what public television should be, or to show insensibility, to those significant 60% of the content of the programme that is very important in a situation that threatens us not to make the whole society yellow, that complete society doesn't become a consummation of such content, which will ultimately endanger its power of judgment about what is public interest. They also surprise those provisions related to the Croatian Radio-Television website, for its position on the Internet, which should be in a disabled position compared to other portals. I really don't get it. It really is not clear to me why it would not be possible for her to do the best page, to be the best, to be clear to me at all what the logic of the promoter stated that de facto Croatia radio television as a medium representing what we call public television, what gives content that will by no means add strictly commercial television houses, that we put it in some way that it is questionable for us and that we think it should be in a subordinate position on the Internet. As far as these electric subscriptions are concerned, it is not by chance that they have been initiated and that ideas and thoughts have been heard here about how it serves to intimidate employees, before the threat of firing part of employees because 300 million kunas will be less, and because of the fact that the story of non-work on Croatian broadcasting has been created. So it seems to me that it can get that one political connotation under the firm's winding-up of Croatian television, opening windows so that not all those who don't think like those who are currently the most powerful in society can be thrown out of those windows. Since this is a democracy, a parliamentary democracy, it is to assume that the authorities will change the governing structures here and there, so let us put on ourselves a single fuse that this public television is not subject to these shifts, but that no matter what political option it is in power to preserve its objectivity, and these discussions that have been heard from our ranks are a reflection of the fear that this is not the case in these proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56511	One replica, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56512	Dear counterpart Jurjevic, you are talking about the fuse to finally be removed, or introduced, but apparently according to the government and its intentions and such proposals are obviously burned down by the fuse. Therefore, in the amendments to the law from which the urgency of the procedure has been removed, where a reduction of 1.5 to 1.25% of the average salary is envisaged, the law will, as it stands here, begin to apply from 1.8., from 1 August, and this is impossible because the urgency of the procedure has been lifted and there is no chance of having another reading or final proposal by that time period. And in the new law, the planned subscription is 1.5% of the average salary, and the law is also in the first reading, and will take effect on the eighth day of publication. So, at the same time, it will cease to be an existing law that reduces the subscription. So why are we here to discuss something that can't happen because it's not possible for the government itself to propose and produce damage here for citizens. We're wasting electricity here, wasting time, all of it being paid by taxpayers. So it is obvious that the only intention was to put irrational nature in order or in some way scare employees on TV and then send one obvious message when we have already ruined the heavy industry some television at this election time remains our only heavy industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56513	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56514	So you've well pointed out a kind of logical equilibristics and various acrobatics, and that's what unfortunately gives the aroma that something strange is going on or some unpleasant smell that might be a smoke bomb, a smoke screen that's created to make something else happen in that smoke. That's why and... The one I was talking about, it's just to get a part of him to prevent himself from thinking the way he would normally think, but just think the way he wants to think. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's about public television, and there's always a danger of doing long-term damage. Because those who make these laws with these dilemmas that remain de facto and dig their own hole and maybe don't even know that at this point they're some sort of, even if it looked like a contradiction, of spiritual physical workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56515	Maybe he's got pepper aroma, pepper. There's a difference in paprikats and gleaning. Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with an associate. Dear colleagues and colleagues. When the Annual Report on HRT 2008 is on the agenda, then we will see how many problems there are, and today we have just mentioned some problems, and there are problems on HRT. We heard from a colleague who heard two percent of the ratings being transmitted by car races. I'd supplement it if it wasn't just a car race, but it was a car race, and almost no one was watching. HTV, for example, uses a coded satellite program that Croats in Argentina, America, Germany cannot watch if they do not pay and have some use for HRT, from selling these cards. But it does not need to be coded and should not be sold to Croats because there is room in rationalising business not to charge it. Only in one year's position remained external costs increased by 80 million kuna, from 586 million to 666 million kuna. More can be saved by not visiting the famous restaurant "Maria's Bell" than can be earned from selling cards. For example, when it comes to HTV, we have had more opportunities to monitor the trial of Seselj and Karadzic than all Croatian generals who are in The Hague. Today we're wondering if they're being tried at all because we don't have any information about it at all. But it's no problem that you don't work there, that HTV really has individuals working exhaustingly, but the problem is that many irrational decisions and many illogicalities are there. For example, it is not possible to send someone into retirement and to give high severance fees because of extra workers, and later to hire or receive other employees for them. That's why a new law is necessary to help get HRT out of this situation. I'll just look back at the part that talks about HRT bodies, which is HRT Management, the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. It's illogical, and that's what my colleague Flego seemed to be telling me, and I haven't actually met or read in literature that two separate bodies make decisions as one body yet. What does that mean as a single body? It simply comes to the need to separate the body and to know the ingenuity of both bodies. It is not logical or will receive positive results that the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council as one body make a decision on the management of the company. Like it's illogical, and it also seems to me that my colleague Flego was saying that the work programme is being brought by the Supervisory Board. No, the Supervisory Board should adopt a business plan for the HRT, and a programme for the work of the Programme Council. In my opinion, the Supervisory Board should be elected by management, and the Programme Council should be elected by editors, editor-in-chief. When it comes to conditions for the president and members of the HRT Board, I find it unacceptable to prescribe that there is a graduate and university study or specialist study. I don't think there are any, it's a very responsible place and there's no room for specialist studies, and it's also said only 10 years of work experience, and it's not said after learning. Someone can have 10 years of work experience, and then a month ago they acquire this famous specialist study and have conditions formally. It won't be good for us to lead HRT into the future. It is a good thing that the representative of the HRT Employment Council is a member of the Supervisory Board. But also for members of the Supervisory Board, it is now defined in particular that it is from the field of graduate and university studies or specialist graduate studies, expert in economics, rights and electronic communications or media, and this is not available for members of the administration. There, any profession may be a member of the HRT Administration. That's not good. More specialization is needed for the management of society than for the supervisory board. I also have a little unacceptable expression at least one member of the Supervisory Board. At least 10 years of work. Which means I don't get it, and it just needs to be thrown out. This Regulation shall enter into The supervisory board, in the description of its activities and in the section, does not have at all a description of the competence to appoint HRT administration and everything else is listed, and in fact this should be the most important function for it. Here are the doubts of the 15th or 11th members of the Programme Council. There should be no doubt at all, 11, no more. When it comes to those who are supposed to be in the HT HRT Council, I see that whatever I open here, wherever I look, there's nothing I can do without interest groups. So give me if anything can happen in this Croatia that the Employers' Association is not present. So what the Association of Employers, the business partner of HRT has to do at the HRT Program Council. Those who pay for propaganda, promotion, those who are the biggest business partners, those who advertise that they should edit and be in the Programme Council. I guess those whose most expensive impulses in the world we pay for phone calls should decide what's going to happen on HRT. I support absolutely like this, making laws with all the remarks I've said. But if any interested group and union association are scheduled, let alone the Association of Employers should protect the interests of employees and not edit the HRT programme. If the Association of Employers remains in this law, my hand cannot be raised for such a law. The Council for Electronic Media. It's alternative here, yes or no, no. The Council for Electronic Media cannot in any way effectively implement the process or conduct the process of appointment and selection of members of the HRT Programme Council. It is better, it is a much better variant, which provides for Article 24 of the alternative for this election process to be initiated by the Information, Information and Media Committee. I would also point out a VAT problem in a tax that has not been settled, which is not about this law. But once again, I would like to point out that, under the VAT Act, HRT tax is not exempt from VAT and please bear that in mind and that this is finally regulated legally. And this is not just about the fact that HRT did not pay VAT on what it had calculated and what was to be accounted for under the law and the debt was more than 100 million kuna. As for the doubts of counterpart Vujic, who said that public television, HRT as public television should not be SDPs or HDZs. I agree. She should be the only Croatian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56517	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56518	Dear fellow Maric, when you spoke of certain situations happening on HTV, and regarding the display of our generals and others, I must say that it seems to me that it is often called guests in information shows according to one ideological orientation, not according to expertise. In fact, it is amazing that information-political shows are called guests, for example those most objective to see the Homeland War and Operation Storm, and on the other hand, it is generally known that their arguments in The Hague have been seen by a complete debacle in court. Or they are called, for example, guests who need to interpret incentives in agriculture, and they live their whole lives as proletaries and have never done anything concrete, because they usually get paid from what members of their unions or taxpayers single out. The regular appearance is also the appearance of some so-called so-called. independent political commentators who are known to have been or are still members of some advisory bodies of certain political parties, and on television are shown to be the most objective thinkers of the situation in Croatia, so there is the impression that there is actually no commentator belonging to the democratic option or those who might say something in favour of the other side. This shows, of course, the real picture of the Croatian Information Programme, which is abundant with a lot of biased and unobstructed information and comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56519	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56520	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Petir, you have rightly noticed watching these shows and these hostings, you should not announce who will be the guest, when I know who is running the show, I know in advance and who will be the guest, because they are already around 30, they are always talking about all possible topics, regardless of what it is about, and most of all it is about these independent experts, especially economic experts who are based on certain areas of interest and on interested companies, which is why, and lately, most of all, it is, what is the independent economic expert of the Split Bank's employee, the representative of a private bank company, and is represented every day as an independent economic expert. Analysts also vary, political analysts. You can always see their worldview in every performance, then they're not automatically independent. But the biggest problem on HTV is editors, especially those who have been replaced, do nothing, receive a large salary, and instead work young people who work for 4 and a half thousand kunas from morning to night, and these do not reduce wages, enjoy 15 to 16, 17 thousand and have no responsibilities or come to work at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56521	Now I will announce the SDP club, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56522	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be... For one exceptional obligation, let me just say this. [[You don't understand.]] There have been excellent quality discussions and even independent positions in this House, various opinions that should surely be incorporated. I'd say something that I think might be the most important thing, to reconsider, so maybe we'll be able to reconsider our relationship to this. I'd say it very unfairly. The first contract doesn't need at all, it doesn't need to be because, and according to him, only the government is an intermediary between the subscription and the program, if we have a program council that works then no one needs to make a special contract. Article 14(5), where it is related to the fact that television must not have a better programme on multimedia, but rather a private publisher, it should be deleted, because I do not see what kind of interest it is, and in addition, international practice could certainly allow it. It's necessary to separate functions. The Supervisory Board will have a supervisory and financial function. The program board has a programming function, and the management has a business, and why do you even want to rush it? That way we can get a normal decision structure. Alternative choice in Parliament or directly. The election in the Parliament by strengthening and finding ways to oblige the parties to find, primarily, possible candidates, not in a way to oppose each other, but from the very beginning. The fee can't be the subject of an agreement between the Supervisory Board and the Council for Electronic Media, not government or anyone, it can only be passed by law, and I think a few of the key elements here were a whole series of extremely high-quality proposals, I believe, so we'll judge by that what can be done in some paper that will appear on time before the second reading, if ever these things are installed inside, and I suggest that there may be a way and less formal links to come to a positive law, then we'll be happy to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56523	Thank you. You haven't used all five minutes. Final review, Secretary of State Nina Obulen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56524	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I thank all the MPs and MPs for the suggestions that we will, of course, consider first reading carefully. Allow me very briefly if I may refer to some of the questions that have been asked. First, the relationship between the rules on the protection of competition and the preservation of public function. Indeed, there have been a lot of calls here for both the Amsterdam Protocol and the Council of Europe recommendations, and this is not a dilemma that is only a Croatian dilemma, this is a dilemma of all the legislators in Europe, because there are indeed certain conflicts between competition requirements and requirements for maintaining public function and public service independence. We managed each other's documents and tried to reach a balanced text that at the same time ensures independence, so citizens' right to public service and public information. The requirements of commercial publishers are mentioned here, I think it is very important to say that, apart from associations and representatives of HRT, we have on several occasions consulted commercial publishers, we are aware that their position in the Republic of Croatia is difficult at the moment, because the economic situation is complex, the revenues from advertising have fallen, but at the same time we must make sure that this must not endanger the independence and obligations that HRT as a public service must provide to the public. As far as state support is concerned, I think there's one more thing that needs to be said very clearly. So state support is allowed if they comply with the rules. We did not prescribe any international documents, so the decision on state aid rules for public broadcasting published in the National Journal, discussed and in this body, and I must say that HRT has started to introduce rules earlier, would probably be much easier for us and would have a much simpler situation, especially in the part in which it is necessary to calculate the actual cost of the public service provided by HRT. There's been a lot of talk about management. We are aware that public tv service is not defined whether it is public or state, by the way the body is elected, but by standards and ways of fulfilling public functions. We'll take care of all the proposals that have been made here regarding the program council. I must stress that even in the first alternative, especially in the second programming council, it is not intended as a body that will be interested in representing particular interests. It will firstly follow the fulfillment of the contract, and what may not be mentioned enough here will be selected by the Croatian Commissioner for HRT services, another function that will allow for a better quality of monitoring if HRT is fulfilling its public function. As regards the joint body, the establishment of a joint body between the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. In many European countries, there is a model where one body unites within itself and controls business, and controls over the programme. This is so because such a public radio service would avoid conflict and conflict between those who oversee the programme and those who oversee the business, because in many parts of that function it is impossible to separate. I mentioned in the opening statement that this joint body is primarily designed in a situation that associations would choose directly from members of the programming council if, and it seems to us already from this debate that this body is much more prone to the Programme Council being elected further through the Assembly in that case, we will certainly consider this function of this joint body for which there will probably be no more need. Regarding the supervisory board's powers, therefore, when a proposal for a second reading is made, we are certain to adopt these issues that were related to the Supervisory Board. However, I must stress the supervisory board on the one hand is a commitment because it is the only public institution that does not currently have a body that oversees finance, but is also bound by the full application of the State aid rules. In that sense, I think it is also important to highlight some of the questions that were related to the tax. So, I repeat, the State aid rule has been published in "The People's News" in force and in the Republic of Croatia. So they're looking for ex ante tax determination. So first define the service, then set the price and then then determine the amount of the fee. Therefore, the provision is up to 1.5%, up to 1.5%, and the amount of the fee will be determined in accordance with the obligations adopted in the contract. There were a lot of words about the connection of the electricity collection, so the charges with the possession of the power connection. So, it's not about paying for every connection, it's clear that it's about the household. Also, the proposal referred to in Article 33 which speaks of other devices takes care of precisely the technological development and the fact that the current method of collecting fees will become almost impossible over several years when each laptop, each cell phone actually becomes a receiver. In this respect, the EBU recommendations of the European Broadcasting Association recommending Member States to consider new ways of ensuring tax because the fee is actually the basis for financial independence and thus for the programme independence of the public radio service. The VAT issue has been resolved at this point. Therefore, it is clear that the tax does not pay VAT, but the new VAT Regulation that came into force this year will in fact make it very clear that in the part where HRT makes commercial revenues, it will have to pay VAT, as well as all other public institutions. I would not comment on it at the moment, but what I have to say from the position of the person who led the public debate that we have had very good cooperation with HRT representatives, with journalists, editors of HRT who are top professionals, who know European models, want to work on one quality public radio service, we did not all agree, we did not all agree on all the proposals that are in front of you, but I believe that until the second reading we will be able to come out with one text that will satisfy all expectations, and we see that expectations are very high. I can't not even mention the contract because there's been a lot of talk about it here. When we set out to prepare the law, are we going to define everything precisely in the law and then risk that the law is relatively often going to change, or are we going to go along with the model to edit the public service and public function more closely, but still leave the instrument of the contract as an instrument that will ensure that in the 5-year period, HRT is considered in an adequate way to meet the public service? Should I run new services or not? In this respect, these Articles 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of which you have also mentioned and the question why the State budget funds and at this point State budget funds are financed by certain specific programmes beyond the tax and beyond commercial revenues. satellite program or Croatian Voice. Therefore, we leave the possibility that if this contract is negotiated and there is a need for specific services to be financed by specific funding from the state budget and, of course, the Government has the means to enable this, for example. digitalization of archives or something. Also, as far as the contract is concerned, I don't think there's any conflict as has been said with the independence of HRT because just signing the contract and the fact that there's a contract will ensure not only that the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board but also the public that makes HRT provide its services the best possible way to monitor whether it has actually received the service for which it has allocated the money. In the end, I would just like to say that we will consider all the suggestions and hope that for another reading we will include all those suggestions, useful suggestions that are being made here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56525	Thank you. I am concluding a debate on the view of these two draft laws. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final proposal of the Census, Households and Apartments Act in the Republic of Croatia 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-12-0.u56526	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Croatian Television. It's a first reading, P.Z.E. Number 586. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: first, the proposal for a Law on Croatian Television, second all comments and proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This Proposal for a Law on Croatian Radio Television was adopted in the first reading by a majority of 76 votes to, 8 abstentions, 35 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we continue with the announced agenda point - Final bill on population censuses, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia 2011, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 578 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings of the Law, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration Mr. Pavle Maticic.
