ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59391	... The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure and to submit the following amendments to the text of the final draft law. [[Home is not saved.]] Therefore, Article 1(1) and Article 26 are deleted and the words referred to in Article 279(1) and (2) are added after the words ‘money laundering’. In paragraph 3, the words tax evasion and other duties referred to in Article 286 shall be added to the KZ. Penalty law. The second, in Article 2, Article 2 is also amended as follows: Article 26 covers the concealment of money illegally obtained is replaced by the words "money laundering". The reasons for the first and second amendments, therefore not entering into the content of the provisions, are therefore not to be touched by the amendments in the content of the provisions of Articles 1 and 2, the amendments shall be accompanied by a statement in a nomotechnical sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59392	Thank you. Does the rapporteurs want other working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59393	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I can say that the SDP club will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. We believe this change will contribute to the even more successful work of the USKOK vertical. We heard yesterday that 80% of citizens do not support the work of the current government, and that 3 key problems are unemployment, bribery and corruption and economic problems. In addition, citizens point out that the big problem is the feeling of uncertainty. The feeling of uncertainty in its overall width involves job uncertainty, insecurity of pay, inaccessible health care or inability to school. So, exactly what corruption is feeling down. So when we talk today and this amendment to the law that will contribute to a better fight against corruption, we must once again say that three questions are crucial to assessing our ability to resist corruption. The worst view is the one that comes from the assumption that they are all corrupt, that they are all equal and that there is no point in fighting corruption at all. The first question we always have to ask ourselves is is there any corruption and how is it viewed? Secondly, how widespread is corruption, in which areas is the most present and harmful? If we know the answers to these two questions comes third, and that's what you should do in fighting corruption? It is through the answers to these 3 questions that we can also track how the relationship to corruption has moved in Croatia over the past 20 years. We can say that in the '90s they were the mother of all corruption, the mother of all the problems that were later created because of a criminal transformation in which 400 thousand jobs were missing, a third of the companies failed. It was the age of a non-democratic anti-corruption deviation and the only cure was more democracy, which began on January 3, 2000, which we consider to be the second stage in the fight against corruption. Many formally believe that the second stage of the fight against corruption has just begun with the formation of USKOK. So USKOK 2001 is a turning point in the fight against corruption, but the problem was that it took practically 7, 8 and 9 years to make USKOK more effective in fighting corruption. It is amazing that the number of people employed in USKOK has not yet reached a number that allows for more quality work of USKOK. A lot of people don't know there's only 25 people working at the BOLO. Fortunately, this change that we are about to adopt today will increase to 30 people, so I believe that the possibility of USKOK fighting corruption will be greater. However, I would point out that some third phase of the fight against corruption in Croatia began with the formation of the USKOK vertical, the police USKOK, the State's Attorney's Office and the finality of USKOK courts. Of course, when we talk about fighting corruption, we cannot mention the victory of President Ivo Josipovic's concept of justice, which gave a new quality to improve the fight against corruption. Where are we today in the fight against corruption? The perception of citizens about corruption in Croatian society, especially in the judiciary, and so also in the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK, all state bodies, politics and police, points to the seriousness and need of an even stronger fight against corruption that is first seen in investigations that must be without any political pressure, without any pressure from an overly poor police director or interior minister. Therefore, the investigation is based on the law, on evidence that, as soon as possible, has to come to the final judgments, regardless of whether these were judgments or not, and end with the complete confiscation of property acquired by corruption. It is the only way in Croatia to work against corruption and to make citizens believe in the work of USKOK verticals. We believe that the state in which the police are acting is not a good state. Police must be civil and must not stick to criminal charges which then make it difficult for USKOK to work because we could read in the EU's opinion that one of the major problems in the work of the State's Attorney's Office is too many rejected criminal charges. This can only point to the submission of false criminal charges which falsely seeks to create equality between parties in the existence of corruption within their work. So, state lawyers work all the time, 24 hours 365 days a year, not as an inspiration depending on political opportunity. The state's attorney is not an artist, but an officer who must serve the people. The EU said clearly in its latest report establishing and closing criteria in chapter 23, you will not close chapter 23 unless you show that your USKOK investigations, USKOK cases have been carried out in quality and ended up with judgments on those for whom those criminal charges have been raised. Also, Mrs Redding, the EU's EU representative in Croatia has repeatedly pointed out that if we fail to resolve 3 issues, which are better-quality resolution of the Law on the financing of political parties, resolving the problem of conflicts of interest and resolving the right to access information, there will be no closure of chapter 23. When it comes to the law to resolve the financing of political parties, then it is this change that we are putting in place today that it is the basis to prevent black BMWs from being transferred from state-owned companies to black BMWs to party branches and then to finance political campaigns that are won over by the government. Yesterday we voted here in our first reading to amend the law that all property acquired by corruption must be taken away. But all the benefits acquired by corruption must be taken away. Thus, as a student in the Index affair who paid bribes to pass the exam, his exam must be annulled as well as his diploma. So the government, which was acquired by the money that made it possible for the political racket and political corruption to finance a political campaign such a party is questionable, questionable, immoral and, in my opinion, criminal. Therefore, the changes that we are adopting today hopefully will in the long run prevent the possibility that state-owned companies will be used to finance any party's political campaigns, because I repeat everything acquired by corruption is illegal and must be taken away. If the current power of its political campaign has financed money that is being sucked out of state-owned companies by political racket and political corruption, it is deeply unfair, illegal, criminal and I hope that citizens will judge such authorities in elections that must be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59394	Mr. Representative, you can't qualify for what's criminal, which is not criminal, it's the task of the state authorities that are being talked about here, so don't take over on yourself because you don't have it. And I advise you in general to refrain from such qualifications, because there is a situation when you throw an object and it comes back as a boomerang, you know. That is why I advise you not to you but to all refrain from qualified and transforming the assembly into a courtroom. That's what I've said many times here. However, the threshold of tolerance in this respect has been crossed many times and therefore I ask you all to refrain from qualifications because we are not competent. That's why we've got the jump that this is about, that's why the state's attorney's office, that's why we've got the courts, so they'll handle it. Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations, so please also, in the context of correcting incorrect allegations, we stick to these basic frameworks for discussion. First, Madam Representative, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59395	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's this morning's hypocrisy never ends, especially from an advocate who was just now speaking. And I will correct one of a series of incorrect allegations, which is that this government does not support, that is, the work of the government 80% of Croatian citizens and that it does nothing about corruption. It's the spell we're seeing with this law. It was this government that declared zero tolerance for corruption and crime. And we see that neither the party, nor the name, nor the friendship nor anything will prevent institutions from doing their job and from finding the name and last name of those who have sinned. Namely, it should only be remembered that exactly the SDP gentleman appears when they were four years in power did nothing about it, and they swore before the election that they would suffer into prison just as they are now doing, because it is not in their interest to mention Daimler, Viktor Lenac, when mentioning the chief who embezzled 39 million kunas or some of the 2 billion kunas jumping on their backs, because it is done in the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59396	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, vice president of the House. Here you go, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59397	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect assumption that democracy entered Croatia in 2000 on January 3rd. She entered the changes in the democratic 1990s, and in these changes Mr Jovanovic did not participate and you are not welcome then this Croatia, and you did not fight for it and you do not know how democracy is created. Democracy is not something that comes, sits and stays, but is a process for which to fight. And this law today that we are proposing here instead of politicizing it is a contribution to creating a better democratic relationship in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59398	Correction of Mrs. Ana Lovrin's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59399	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So MP Jovanovic said about everything more than this law argued that this law allows, these today's amendments to the law to allow the number of employees in USKOK to increase to not know 30 or how much he said. This is simply not true, because this law only speaks of the termological harmonisation and extension of the catalogue of jumping offences, and the number of employees in USKOK and state attorneys in USKOK is also the capacity of USKOK and the financial capacity of USKOK is systematically increased by changes and additions to the law over the last 4 years, by strengthening financial capacity, by adopting a state budget etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59400	Thank you. Correction Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59401	It is not excessive to repeat that Mr Jovanovic's statement is completely incorrect, that democracy in Croatia began on January 3rd 2000. Democracy as said, and you should know that, because you obviously forget part of Croatian history in the 1990s, democracy came to Croatia for a multiparty election in 1990. Secondly, it is also incorrect, incorrect and politically dangerous to claim that in Croatia democracy exists only when the SDP is in power. This is what you indirectly imply is unacceptable, politically harmful to the development of Croatian democracy. We heard this in early 2000 that democracy came to power in Croatia by coming to the SDP. it is not true and it is very harmful and politically dangerous for the development of democracy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59402	Thank you. Correction Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59403	Here, Mr. President, my colleague Jovanovic is persistently speaking, persistently and pre-electionly that this authority is criminal and so on. First of all, this government has made it possible to fight laws precisely effectively, to which USKOK and... the fight against crime, against corruption, and that is what hurts him, because we seem too close to him, the Rivers and his parties. That's because according to his form, we might as well say that the Kukurik coalition is a criminal organization. In view of the people who make up, given the numerous affairs they had and in the hope that the State's Attorney's office would show understanding and that it would be their turn, because they should have come to the turn long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59404	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59405	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State with an associate. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, as another in a series of laws or a series of measures in the systematic fight against corruption and organised crime. Yesterday we voted right here in the first reading, we did not vote, but we discussed in the first reading of the Law on the confiscation of all the benefits acquired by the crime. Today, we have a seemingly technical change in the first article and essentials of the second article. 1st article only equates a termologically with the term "money laundering" which in the Penal Code has also replaced the name of a criminal offence to conceal money illegally obtained by means of a term of money laundering, because it is a term that is common and used in international documents, and so so is our Croatian law called the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. This does not mean, as was just said, that from the day this law was passed, it would allow some kind of limousine or I don't know what. The law on the prevention of money laundering in Croatia has existed since 1997, it has lived through a series of changes, of course extending the circle of taxpayers under this law. But he's there, just like there was a crime of hiding illegal money, it existed in the Penal Code, today it exists as a crime of laundering money. So nothing's going to happen here that's going to make it possible from now on. There are state bodies working, institutions doing their job and as much as Mr. Jovanovic says it's our mantra, that's the principle, it's the principle of a democratic system of government tridivision. As regards Article 2, tax evasion and other duties referred to in Article 286. KZ which is a fundamental change because this bill introduces this crime into the so-called so-called criminal act. the catalogue of jumping offences, i.e. in the jurisdiction of the USKOK, which then means that all the special measures and procedures and the application of the new amended Criminal Procedure Act are also related to this criminal act, i.e. the essence. What we heard earlier about this speaker, what Mr. Jovanovic was saying on behalf of the SDP club, and that's what I'd be troublesome about. Namely, because what is said here is the introduction of the report on the work of the Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, and that is exactly the part that we have problemed on the council because we believe that this council must be a party impartial body that will oversee this Croatian government, as well as the Parliament in its part-round in the part of the implementation of the strategy that it has brought. As we know, the Anti-Corruption Strategy was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 2008 with an action plan that is planned, which the Croatian Government has adopted as a single living document which has also been revised and partly respecting the objections of the National Council, which certainly has one proactive role to question, apart from the supervision itself, the possible proposal for new measures. That is why we thought today I repeat that political observations that are not in place in the report, and today we hear where they belong, in the SDP club, so when democracy came to Croatia on 1 January 2003 and we heard very elaborated when the Croatian state became an independent and democratic and social state. Observations that something happened in the fight against corruption by electing President Josipovic and the justice programme. Not a word about when an action plan was adopted, nor a word about the fact that a programme against corruption was adopted in 2000, but that we had never heard of any report, nor had we had concrete measures or financial resources or bodies in charge until 2006. The first programme of measures, with those in charge of implementation, with resources to implement the measure, was in 2006. Also, for the first time in 2006 and confirmed by the 2008 Strategy, the National Council of the Croatian Parliament was established as parliamentary oversight of the implementation of these documents. And for the first time, this Croatian Parliament made a decision to set up such a council in 2006 and this parliamentary majority that is today and then voted in favour of the council to be the representative of the opposition, precisely so that the supervision could be impartial and objective until the end. It is therefore not good to use it for party policy purposes then, that when institutions do their job, which is made possible by amending the law, starting there from 2006, 2005 onwards, by systematically adapting the legal system of the Republic of Croatia to provide tools and to give funds to institutions so that they can work. When these institutions approach some individuals, they are then called disgraceful names, to exceed their own powers. So imagine, please, that the state's attorney and police are overruling powers when they're doing their job, and that concerns some members of the opposition parties. When it comes to other people, it is good to work and to work even better. Here, once again, such a political approach will not be good at fighting corruption. organised crime and corruption should be carried out and prosecuted regardless of political and party colors, and therefore we in the National Council, it is our job to monitor the implementation of the programme, to remind institutions to work wherever it is and to submit the report. And when we talk about fighting corruption, we talk in accordance with the measures that we've all supported together to end them and implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59406	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59407	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting Mrs Lovrin's incorrect quote, as well as anyone who corrected my allegations that democracy in Croatia began in 2000. So, I'll repeat what I said. 400,000 jobs have disappeared in the 1990s, a third of the companies collapsed. It was a time of non-democratic, corrupt deviation and the only cure was to listen well to more democracy. More democracy on January 3, 2000, began the second phase to date. The mandate set up USKOK, the first Anti-Corruption Strategy was written in the mandate. So, I repeat, the 1990s began democracy in Croatia, and in 2000 it took more democracy to combat corruption that stole Croatia in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59408	You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, right? Here you go, Mrs. Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59409	Mr. Representative Jovanovic injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure because he abused the institute to correct the incorrect allegations, because he quoted incorrectly what he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59410	Okay. I mean, let's not generally have any limits when democracy started, and when it was developing and how it was developing and when it continued to develop. Somehow this division of years, because for some, it was a '45 democracy. Until the '90s, and it's top-of-the-line. Yeah? So it's this look, this different view of the question. I even let some people think so. It's a democratic right. But when we here strictly on the years, we share it, it can't be very convincing because it's not like that at all. So well, it's all in a political struggle allowed to say so. But I think it should be a little more objective in all this. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's Madam Representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unlike the previous laws that we discussed yesterday, which regulated some of the crucial issues in the area of justice, this tiny law of only three articles only defines money laundering more precisely, and more explicit evasion of taxes and other taxes provided for in Article 208(6) of the Penal Code is placed in the jurisdiction of so on. Jumping verticals. It is clear from the reasons followed by this law that even after several attempts, the Ministry of Justice failed to convince the mission of independent experts of the European Commission that it is a criminal offence, an act of tax evasion and other taxation if it is linked to the criminal act of corruption and organised crime, but within the jurisdiction of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. In the end, these two articles had to be written. The third one, of course, speaks of the entry into force and amend and update the USKOK Act of last year, in order to meet the ground for the closure of Chapter 23. If this is so, of course, the HNS Club, HSU will support this Law amending and supplementing the USCOD Act. However, I remind you that yesterday we have offered a solution by which we propose that Article 34 second and third paragraphs of Article 34 of the Proposed Law on the process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal act be included in this law. I think yesterday we also had the opportunity to hear from colleagues from the HDZ Club who estimated that Article 34 was inappropriately intervened in the USKOK Act. As there is an amendment to the USKOK Act today, we do not have a business opportunity to intervene with the amendment. We propose to the government today not to vote on this law but to propose those amendments by the next vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59412	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59413	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. The reason for amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime stems from requests for harmonisation with the European Union, i.e. the need for a more precise determination of jurisdiction when it comes to criminal offences of tax evasion and other taxation if they are linked to acts of corruption and organised crime. It is also one of the sub-measures for closing Chapter 23. When it comes to corruption and crime, any kind of crime must not be untouchable. And the investigations we've been seeing for the past few months show that suppressing these same Halls isn't just declarative. We are witnessing that the institutions of society are doing their jobs, and in this business they need to be supported, not by some political stories to make their actions impossible. Corruption that is not only Croatia to a greater or less extent than is allowed to spread is also present in other countries. However, the presence of corruption in more developed countries with longer democracy must not be an excuse for failures in its repression. Today we see that these gaps are getting smaller and the fight against corruption is becoming more effective. Corruption has a negative impact on society as a whole, slows down and sometimes slows down its development, makes normal functioning impossible, and costs even less than six billion kunas a year as a result of corruption is lost. The eradication of corruption is necessary not only to enter the European Union, but above all to ensure that Croatia and its citizens, most of whom live and work fairly, finally get the opportunity to build a society that appreciates knowledge, diligence and work, which characterizes solidarity and commitment for the good of all, and not just some. Croatian citizens deserve an equal chance to acquire knowledge and hire, compete on the market or get medical help, not that they should bribe anyone for all of this, even though they have been paid, with the money of these same citizens. Therefore, we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club welcome all the efforts that appear to be in the repression and eradication of this social evil, as well as this legal proposal that the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59414	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59415	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Of course I support this amendment to the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, which has long been named USKOK. We are about to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the foundation of USKOK. Let us remember now far back in 2001 when many were very skeptical, then especially the opposition at the time, and caused even doubt that we needed A BREAK when we only had a state attorney's office and that we didn't need any specialized body. But here's the time that shows how right we were and that it's not an ad hoc office that has only the task of handling an acute condition but the office has found its place, not only within the state's attorney's office, but normally in our entire legal system, in the repressive part to combat the most dangerous crimes, corrupt crimes. During the period of time, gradual amendments to the Law were made to USKOK, so that last year a whole new law was passed, and here we are also changing it, supplementing it, adding to the office, so to the USKOK itself, new responsibilities for criminal offences of tax evasion and money laundering. Today we heard, but we keep hearing from the ruling, our fight against corruption is unfavourable because we declared zero tolerance to corruption. THE BOOK has been increasingly effective lately, however, in order to be effective, we need to free it from insignificant acts and concentrate it for the most dangerous sights, because it is also formed, and therefore it separates huge resources from the state budget, to make that difference between so-called. street corruption and political corruption. Therefore, these are not the same things, each corruption is destructive, but political corruption is destructive, and that distinction must be. There must also be a different way of pointing our struggles and the focus of the bodies that are just in charge of it. But let's not make an illusion that repressive bodies can effectively fight corruption, because the most important and best fight against corruption is its prevention, and there is the primary role and task of the country itself. As it spreads itself or as a good and responsible authority narrows down the possibilities of corruptive action in the first place, and that is of crucial importance. If laws are passed such that it is perfectly clear that it suits certain stakeholders, that they are laws against citizens, and not for their citizens, then how can citizens take seriously the widest fight and call against corruption. Political corruption is the most important form of corruption, and it seems to me that we are the weakest. Let's just mention the law on golf courses. And some other laws that are still awaiting the word of the Constitutional Court, which are perfectly clear that a certain stakeholders are privileged, to the detriment of all citizens, because this reduces the public well-being, especially in this time of crisis, when these resources are of crucial importance, vital importance for the survival and development of our people, that is, all of our citizens. And also about this action of people who are in power, and at all levels of government, and local level, management of space, as the most dangerous form of corruption, because that's how certain individuals or groups of groups are rich in the movement of feathers, and that's what people see. Employment, too. And various other benefits. These are the most dangerous types of corruption. And something else that we don't have today, I don't know why the rulings keep refusing, I know that a few years ago there was a working group that would have changed the Penal Code, and that's exactly what we're looking for, what we had on that novel in 2003, that's the most important crime, the brutal, the abuse of trust and the act of acting as a believer, the crime that was first designed and which calls for the responsibility of members of the board of directors and supervisors. In Croatia, it must stop hiding individuals behind certain bodies. I'm clean because that's what brought the collective body. Those who propose such decisions, which are their speakers, who deceive then the other members, because they are the source of information and they are the ones who created and designed such proposals that are being robbed, especially state-owned companies, but also the individual resources of Croatia, and that is why no one ever answers, and let's be honest, we had both for this and inadequate criminal legislation. It's something all modern countries have. The members of the Management and Supervisory Board may not be responsible for knowingly destroying the assets entrusted to them to preserve and increase it. Unfortunately, we were more efficient there, at least until now, at the so-called. street corruption. These were major affairs, they were also given special names and so it is all something that citizens expect, but the real picture and perception of the public which is very negative in terms of the assessment of the fight against corruption of greater success unless it happens and it is not true. In addition to having passed such a law which unfortunately was abolished by HDZ did not vote for it, so for the first time the Constitutional Court decided that the Penal Code would be an organic law, we proposed, on two occasions, such a crime, we were rejected. We have heard back seven, eight months ago that the ministry has formed, a long-standing expert group that will make up new amendments to the Penal Code and will include this crime. I once again plead to make it happen as soon as possible. Because it's impossible, so we won't create that expected echo against the citizens unless I say we include the criminal responsibility of the board of directors and supervisors. We must also say that, in certain cases, the State Attorney's Office has shown one particular creativity of the application of the existing Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act to bring the person to justice, or to the court of persons who have been in such positions. However, adequate court epilogues have not always been as the State's Attorney's Office expected and as the citizens expected, and in a good way thanks to exactly inadequate criminal legislation. So, we have completed the catalogue of criminal acts in the last few years, but remains a fundamental anti-corruption act precisely on this which I am pleading for where criminal responsibility will be the first invited members of the board of directors and supervisory boards. The defence of such persons that they did not know about any conduct anywhere in the world is declared a direct admission of guilt because these persons are both paid and appointed there with such a function as to be responsible for the business of certain companies to which they have been sent. But the world goes on, so it's not just about state-owned companies, it's also about private companies. Unfortunately, we end up almost this year in a strong fight against corruption with inadequate criminal legislation, and my proposal is to find it here as soon as possible, certainly before the new year so that we can then conclude this chapter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59416	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First it's Mrs. Djurdice twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59417	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a few incorrect allegations, I'll fix only one. My colleagues, Ingrid, can't believe that you've divided corruption into two types, into street corruption and political corruption, and then USCOD needs to be more involved in one, not the other. Corruption only has one name, it's called corruption. A great and small sin does not exist but is a single sin. And it's possible that you've sucked your campaigns and everything else out of the city of Zagreb's budget, and you thought of it as street corruption, you didn't pay attention to it, not even now. So then you gave up Milan Bandic to reduce, to undo the facts, to change perception, but believe everyone knows it. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59418	Correction Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, an esteemed colleague made an incorrect statement, and I'm correcting that assumption. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59420	That was, in accordance with tradition. In accordance with tradition.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59421	That there are insignificant crimes in the catalogue of criminal offences from the jurisdiction of the USKOK, she even reiterated it. So that's incorrect, that's an incorrect quote. And there's only one thing that comes out of the whole debate in the other part, and it's all good, and we're in the fight against corruption until there's our party friends, and when it comes to party friends, then it's the expressions that these are insignificant crimes, that they're street corruption, that there's a lot of rejections and so on. Dear colleagues, the fight against corruption has no party signs, and in this sense it cannot be commented in any objective and impartial way. So, there are no party features and support the same kind of heat and energy all of the actions of BUSKOK when it comes to your party friends, when that leg, when they come both to your door and to your yard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59422	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59423	Here's Mr. President Ingrid, clearly, he says that BOOK should be dealt with and he incorrectly says that USCOD should deal with big things, and not insignificantly, alluding clearly that everything, and when it touches the SDP, it's insignificant, when HDZ is significant. And the truth is, the SDP was in power for less than four years, so somewhere around 20%, and the crime in those four years was at least 60, 70% of the total 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59424	Correction, Mrs. Sunflower Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll correct the incorrect allegations, my colleague said there are laws against citizens here, not citizens. My colleague Antičević, so what kind of message is this to all of us, so I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, we all raise our hands here, we pass laws, and I refuse to be imputed to bring laws against citizens. As a representative, I can't accept that. Besides what you're saying? This is exactly what most people have brought in a legal framework so that a fierce fight can be fought against corruption, and that's exactly what we've raised our hand for. This is, therefore, false and insolent!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59426	Correction, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59427	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The representative said it's a practice in Europe that when members of the Supervisory Board say they don't know anything that it's a direct confession to blame. So let's just demystify it a little bit. It's not exactly simple. Namely, the members of the Supervisory Boards and the Management Boards must know and be responsible for what the Law on Commercial Society and other laws states that they are responsible and must know for this, there is a responsibility under the Law on Commercial Society, under the Criminal Code, there are criminal offences that exist, and I agree that they may not be the best in the description and that the new Penal Code should also be introduced new, but under the current Criminal Code there are crimes that may be prosecuted under official duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59428	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59429	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crimes Act are proposed to complete the catalogue of criminal offences from the office's jurisdiction, in a way that extends the office's jurisdiction and to the criminal offence of tax evasion and other duties referred to in Article 286. Criminal law, if committed in connection with corruption and organised crime. The reasons for the proposed addition of the laws on the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crimes Office stems from the need for an exact jurisdiction of the hops vertical in the case of criminal offences committed by members of criminal groups and organisations, i.e. when corruption crimes were committed. In view of the fact that the European Commission's mission of independent experts has repeatedly stated that it is necessary for this criminal offence to enter the catalogue of the offences referred to in Article 21(3). The Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. In addition, on the basis of the opinion of experts, the European Union requires the extension of the powers of the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office and of the cases of tax returns related to the criminal acts of organised crime and corruption, the more the same requirement is highlighted as a basis for the closure of Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights, and therefore the proposed amendment of the law constitutes the fulfilment of that sub-measure. Furthermore, the proposed amendments to the Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime are amended as referred to in Article 279. Penalty law, concealing illegal money, laundering money. In particular, the 2008 Law amending and supplementing the 2008 Penal Code punishes the criminal act of concealing the money illegally obtained under Article 279. The penal code has been changed in its content but also in the name of the crime of money laundering. Therefore, this amendment is a denial of the provisions of the Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime with the applicable Criminal Law. For this reason, and given that this legislative proposal also harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, I support the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59430	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59431	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the introduction of my presentation, I will say that I absolutely support this bill. And my opinion is that in one part of the content of our discussions we may have covered the quality of this law and, in fact, the efforts of the Ministry of Justice and the Government in terms of the adoption of quality legislative proposals and the resolution of all those outstanding issues under Chapter 23, negotiation. In this sense, the law absolutely needs to be supported, the efforts of the restoring ministry should be supported. Because this is only at first sight a small step, but it is one of the steps in terms of those legislative proposals that we must make in order to properly conclude negotiations on this sensitive chapter 23. Therefore, by supporting this law, of course, and by supporting its solutions, I also support the ministry's absolute efforts in this direction. As I said only at first glance are these insignificant and small changes, it is only 2 articles, and this first article is really about nomotechnical harmonisation, hence the name of certain criminal acts, the concealment of money illegally obtained in relation to money laundering. Since in two different laws, therefore, criminal law and the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime appear this same crime, the same will be the criminal offence, with the same characteristics. Logic requires that you agree then and express that we do not have two laws when we talk about the same crime two different criminal names. On the one hand, hiding illegal money obtained, and on the other hand, money laundering. So in that sense, and not just nomotechnics doing this needs to be supported as a solution. Of course, I support and should support the solution set out in this second article, where exactly and precisely the competence of the BUSKOK, or the jumps, is vertical, in the case of criminal offences committed by members of criminal groups and organisations in the sense of committing corrupt crimes. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the criminal offence of tax evasion and other taxation enter into that Article 21. enter into the jumping jurisdiction but only if it is committed in connection with corruption or organised crime. Therefore, it is essentially a matter of extending the jurisdiction of the prescribed Article 21 so the catalogue of criminal offences in terms of the conduct of the office of the jumper verticale in this sense is expanding and it is good that so, because most of the corrupting offences that have been committed or committed in this way can be linked because, in many situations, it is connected and related to tax evasion and other duties. It's final. This legal solution should be supported. It represents only one legal proposal in a set of laws that we are discussing and discussing this week. Therefore, there is no doubt that the efforts of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, are high-quality legal solutions which will undoubtedly contribute to the conclusion of Chapter 23 – Justice and human rights can be met all those legal preconditions that can be concluded as soon as possible. So, if not during this calendar year, but certainly early next calendar year. And that is why this bill absolutely needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59432	Thank you. We have one replica, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59433	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's a colleague of Tomljanovic, you mentioned that although these are small changes, it is two articles, that they represent a small step that will still bring some major improvements in the long term. I hope so, too, because it seems to me, and this is what we discussed during some of the laws before and the reports, that this law should indeed be changed and given to the USKOK more jurisdiction in order to be faster and more efficient. I therefore hope that these amendments to the law will also affect that political corruption in one of the poorest counties in Croatia, Sisak-Moslavina County, will finally be curbed and that the business of the county authorities will be brought there within the framework of the law. Namely, the latest audit also found that the country's largest advisory team, 14 advisers, each of them received 5,000 kuna a month, and that it was the wave of council members from the ruling coalition paid by the mayor of the SDP to his political advisers, or those who supported it, and by the wave they were from the SDSS and the HSP to raise their hands neatly for the obvious accidental spending of money. The audit also revealed that there were six contracts on the work that amounted to about 300,000 kuna, not knowing what its advisers were doing because there is no cover for it. That is why I think fellow Tomljanovic that here are the very changes that are in front of us today, regardless of what they really are a small step in the long term, will still bring some results, at least on this example where it is evident from the plane that it is political corruption, and so far nothing has been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59434	Thank you. Answer, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59435	I thank my esteemed colleague for this replica for the reason I can clarify my opinion. Yes, there are really small changes, but in scale. In their essence, they are important, very important, and in this sense my debate was that absolutely law should be supported. And in this second part, dear colleagues, they don't care. What you're saying doesn't interest the president of the National Council because when you mention Rijeka, when you mention your environment, when you mention something in another environment where the SDP is or in a coalition with other political partners and they publish forms of corrupt behavior, then there are criminal charges, then the president of the National Council doesn't care. It's not his job. He's interested in some other things, which he's interested in, everyone already knows. That and the sparrows from the roof are chirping. However, the question arises whether this person or such a mental set may be the president of the National Council who, in this sense, needs to control what we are talking about. It's a question for us here in the assembly room. Because when it appears in your midst it's not corruption, when in some other environments forms of corrupt behavior appear, it's nothing, it's meaningless. It's street corruption. The police are writing nonsense, what criminal charges. And when it's in some other environments, in those other political options, then the president of the National Council calls for democracy on all bells, so we saw how he calls it, then the rule of law, so Brussels, etc. , etc. Finally, it really raises the question of whether such a mentality could be at the head of such an important National Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59436	Thank you. This was a reply to the replica, and now it's Mr. Representative Joseph Leko's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59437	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the motions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and colleagues and colleagues. Although this law is very short, it has only three articles, I think it deserves the attention of the entire Parliament and the Croatian public. So I support the adoption of this law, but I would like to highlight two aspects of this law for the sake of the Croatian public and for ourselves here. The first is contained in the explanation of this proposal. It says, the European Commission's mission of independent experts has insisted that despite the many clarifications given, so by governmental clarifications, this law be regulated. So, the government doesn't think that it should be changed because everything is already contained and given to the competence of the BUSKOK, but the European Commission doesn't trust the Government and this is a really serious problem in Croatia. This is a serious problem in Croatia, and we should say the same thing about it. Why? Namely, the government's trio in democracy, as the Constitution has established in Croatia, so the authorities control each other and supplement each other. In Croatia, this was not the case, so the European Commission did not give the government any confidence in its arguments. In fact, the only rule of law and enforcement can create preconditions and frameworks for the rule of law and the rule of law. Only legislative and executive authority. However, only the institutions of the rule of law such as the State's Attorney's Office and the courts can control the executive and legislative authority. Unfortunately, this hasn't happened in Croatia for a long, long time. And now when we ask the citizens whether it's a coincidence, whether it's a coincidence, or whether it has something to do with the policy that the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK are more determined, more effectively thank God they've been working back a year and a half. Is that a coincidence? I assure you that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would say it is not a coincidence because until then it was not a complex political framework. It is not possible for the rule of law to be controlled by the executive and legislative authority. If it were possible, we wouldn't be clearing things up from the '90s or 2000s or 2005s. That wouldn't be happening right now. And someone is responsible for that, along with us here. When I say that, then I must say that the question of how many crimes has been reported by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and you know how long it's been working and how much money Croatian citizens have spent on that office and how much it has contributed to preventing money laundering and fighting corruption. As soon as I think we're gonna find out, we're gonna have to get a report in front of this Parliament. But it's more interesting how we boast that we are now active in the fight against corruption, and it's about criminalizing people, and the wolf ate the donkeys. The money's gone, there's no money. And now some will suffer and give satisfaction as authorities we have fought corruption. It's too late. Missing money, citizens' interests are damaged. Croatia has the mark of a corrupt state, a corrupt government. And that is so, it is proof of the same position of the European Commission. More decisive action by both USCOK and the State's Attorney's Office, and we'll wait for when the courts react to that, there will be times I'd like to pray that it was at a time when the Sunhani Hvar was privatized. There was no Public Private Partnership Act at the time, and Sunny Hvar was privatised under the exception of private partnership, public private partnership. And the result of this wild public private partnership we know how he ended up or how he ended up, at whose expense. Lately, the damage was done but we still don't have a rule of law response in that matter. And he has to because the public expects the example to show who did what, who ate onion and who smelled it. All of these people's wisdoms are sometimes boring, but they best paint the situation. About changing the tax laws. We're even talking here that in the gray economy, someone speaks 20, someone 30, someone 15% gross domestic product. It doesn't matter what kind of example I'm talking about. So that's where everything goes beyond tax. I can still understand that. The state didn't catch everything and record everything. But if the largest Croatian firm and its leadership are called on to be silent, which means by the authorities it is possible not to pay 2 billion taxes or other taxes and excise fees, and we also know from every experience that individual companies complain that they are not paying taxes or paying them regularly, and they have to pay because they are not in charity. Well, then there's nothing from the rule of law. It is an illegal state and it is not creating a framework for the competitiveness of Croatian society, Croatian economy on the European market where we want to go. Therefore, whether the merits of the government, the current authorities, are the current authorities that he wants to present himself for a decisive change and the fight against corruption. I must simply express my suspicion because these pressures are coming from Europe, and this is not a military element of government, but is forced to legitize as a anti-corruption fighter, because this is the only way we can end the negotiations. So it seems that the current fight against corruption is also part of political will and political interest, not the rule of law, and without the rule of law we can only regret when elections pass that we will return to the old track or other words of the fight against corruption bind the cat to the tail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59438	Thank you very much. Let me just say one word. The government's trodioce ok. Legislative Parliament, legal framework and let him do every job he does. Which should now depend on our cheers or the opposite of cheerleading on whether or not something is going to be enforced. It depends on us when we pass the law, rather than on those who are obliged to do so. It's my intervention if you'll let me do it here. But we have four replicas like this because the first replica appeared to Mrs. Antunović and another seven corrections of incorrect allegations. So Vice President Zeljka Antunovic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59439	Thank you very much. Comrade Leko, you said that despite all that was done or not done, Croatia was marked as a country of high corruption and corrupt authority. Well, I wanted to get up to it and say, no matter what power this country is, I've been a citizen of this country, but also as a politician who carries part of the responsibility for this image of the country, I feel very bad about it for a long, long time since the start of my political career and even before that, I'm thinking about how effectively to fight it. We've passed a bunch of laws, a bunch of strategies. Everyone in this assembly swears they're anti-corruption fighters, including many outside this assembly. However, the fact is that after many years of talking, many years of discussing strategies and laws, we meet with some catastrophic abuses and robberies from the very tops of the government. What does that show? It shows that citizens are right when they call and accuse politicians. Of course, not everyone who deals with politics has been involved in this abuse, but my dear ones, all those who have looked, or turned their heads to the other side all these years, are responsible for that. I don't belong to you because I was screaming loudly. I also galamided before I was involved in politics, when I protested in Ban Jelačić Square against the Privatisation Act. I've been shouting and yelling from these benches, but it's not right to turn your head to the other side, because it's going to get us into an even more awkward situation in front of the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59440	Answer, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59441	My colleague Antunovic, I'd like to explain. Corruption in the Croatian state seems to me to agree, began in the 1990s, and unfortunately there is still no political will to fight corruption seriously, and without it it cannot be eliminated.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59442	We're moving on with the replica. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, an esteemed colleague, Leki, would replicate in the part where he said in his debate, it is not really a proposal of the law or of the political will of the Government, the ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it is pressured by the international community to propose it, in that sense, to amend the law. I cannot agree with that, because the essence of these applications, I have already said, which are small in scope, but are very important, because the catalogue of criminal acts is being extended in terms of the competence of the USKOK, Article 21, so what should be the expression of political will, certain political options if not the bill which resolves these matters, or the problems observed. It is an article, one criminal act, where the problem was seen, that is, not even the measure, but the sub-measure, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reanalysed, the resolution ministry has proposed the law, and we are now discussing the law. In that sense. In another sense, I would rephrase, whenever specific criminal cases are talked about, so talk about concrete criminal cases, which are even ongoing, and who knows at which stage until the verdict, from the constituency benches to me not only is counterproductive, but can always be read depending on which political options come from, as a certain direct or indirect pressure on those institutions, and we all advocate, we are full of the mouth of independence, the trio of the authorities, and everything we do in these discussions when we mention specific criminal cases, we actually put pressure on ourselves in this sense. So, just on this government's proposal, this House has passed a law, not only for the past three years, but also for 7 years, which have allowed institutions to no matter how much it will look like to someone now, but they have indeed made it possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59444	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59445	They're doing their job, and commenting on specific criminal cases wouldn't, I wouldn't dare.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59446	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59447	Thank you. And I don't think that was in your... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59448	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Tomljanović, so I could agree with you that the benefit of the European Union's intervention in the fight against corruption is welcome, but the government's undisciplinedness first claimed to have everything, and then said we will not change the law. That's one thing. Secondly, I didn't mention in the debate any current situation in the state's attorney's office and, or USKOK or in court, so I didn't talk about Fimi-Media, the Podravka, the INA-and possibly, I'm not sure that "Sun's Hvar" is in the interest of the state's attorney's office or the USKOK, so I'm publicly saying it should be, and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59450	Thank you. Replica has a further respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59451	A colleague when you've spoken and on many occasions it's very important except for the law, the political climate in which these laws take place. It's of crucial importance. Because if there is a policy of fear, a climate of fear, that they are warned, that people are free to warn about irregularities, especially in the structures of the government, if then when they are encouraged in spite of this and fear for employment, and for other things to which they are then exposed, then we cannot really talk about preparedness, the determinations of ruling that all laws are implemented like this and that otherwise one framework is created, first of all prevention. And then what does that indicate? Unfortunately, if corruption had become structural with us, it had nested in the very structures of power. We don't have corruption, unfortunately, but it's not an effective, random phenomenon. It is especially these recent cases that are now being revealed that show essentially how power is ruled, and that corruption is part of the way of government, and that is what is most dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59452	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59453	Thank you very much. My colleague, quite absolutely, unfortunately we are from the Croatian executive authority, from the government heard in recent years I will order the state's attorney's office, I will order the state's attorney's office, and even from the fugitive prime minister we'll hear about the tax solution. What does the Prime Minister have to do with a solution specific to God? So it's absolutely true that political will was the problem of fighting corruption, it's still because it seems to me to be watching who does what, where it comes from, and then the procedures are being conducted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59454	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59455	Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Leco, you've talked a lot about the importance of political will to curb corruption, and all of what you've been saying is actually a confirmation can be found in a document called the Common Position of the European Union for the Accession of Chapter 23. So it clearly states that there were pressures on the judiciary in Croatia, and therefore no investigations were opened, and former Minister Shimonovic publicly said that, it was untouchable. In addition to how much political will on glass feet is best seen by three examples. The law on the protection of whistles in the action plan is a fully-exposed section of the whistle protection. The Law on the right to access information insisted by the European Union, expelled, was rejected by the government, although in the proposal of the Ministry of Administration it was the Commissioner for Information. As far as we SDPs are concerned, it's truly tragic that they call us to protect someone who mentions any affair in this assembly. So we insist that all affairs be resolved and... and the Rijeka markets, and what I am constantly invited to the National Council, let me quote what the EU says. [[You don't understand.]] The EU welcomes the growing proactive, encouraging role played by the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. This is the highest recognition for me as the president of the National Council who led this council in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59456	Thank you. The answer to the replica... I'm sorry, he didn't answer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. Just to let you know that in 10.40 minutes, it's time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. I have also been warned that today is Elderly Day, so to all those who feel that way or are, and let us respect those older ones, let us respect them. Let us respect them and give them God, so that they all may have a deep age. ... And you're an old lady someday, if God will. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're going with the corrections of incorrect allegations. The first in line is the distinguished representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59457	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A series of incorrect allegations from a colleague of Lek's. I'll try 2 if I have time. And the first is how this government is just doing cosmetics to talk we've been fighting crime. No, Mr. Leco, this government's action plan is exactly the one in the fight against crime, against corruption, one name is corruption. However, Mr. Jovanovic and others as president of the National Council do not exactly draw attention to the little corruption you have, yes. But that's for example. You're driving around Brijuni, for 7 euros you're flying, you're going for coffee in Wang, then kuna, pardon kuna. You shouldn't pay attention to that. I think it would, if it were your real fight. But you are well-known for not fighting at all, and fellow Jovanovic and others, so I will call them, very simply as the president of the council has the right
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59458	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59459	Please tell me, insulting everyone, absolutely declaring them criminals and putting them in jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59460	Time, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59461	And if you didn't have immunity, you'd have had a lawsuit a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59462	Thank you very much. Please stick to all the time prescribed. ... No benching. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The next correction to the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59463	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Leco incorrectly said that the State's Attorney's Office and the SCOTT has been doing its job for only a year and a half. Mr. Leco, that's incorrect. We have already accepted and adopted the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office in this House on several occasions and given full support to the Attorney General in the fight against corruption and organised crime. And it seems that in 2000 until 2003, you had the opportunity to do some things in the fair revolution, so two bad babies were born, which is the Rijeka Bank and Daimler, and I believe that by the end of this year, the data from your mandate will come out. That's how you showed how to fight corruption and organised crime honestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59464	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I will quote a part of Mr. Lek's debate, and that's when he said, "It's too late to go into the fight against corruption and only one person will be criminalized from this." Your Honor, I don't agree with that and that's not true. The fight against corruption must be constantly present especially to be initiated by politicians. It is a public secret, Mr. Leko you are a representative from the City of Zagreb as I am a representative, and you are 11 years in power in the City of Zagreb that private entrepreneurs, meaning craftsmen, small and medium entrepreneurship looking for work and competing for work in the City of Zagreb, is a public secret that they must give 30%. Who? SDP. Don't you big fairies see at your doorstep? You don't see yourself? Mr Jovanovic
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59466	Time, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59467	I ask you to give yourself strength and will in the City of Zagreb to contain corruption. For more than 5, 6 years, I've been talking about it from this place, but you're not listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59468	Time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59469	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59470	Let's move on with the corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear representative Neda Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I would also correct Mr. Lek's incorrect quote when he was talking about privatizing Sunny Hvar. Mr. Leco said, "The damage has been done, but there's still no response from the state." That's really incorrect, Mr. Leko. Because I can really say here that you, and I'm sorry, I do express my regret that you speak as well as the mayor of the city of Sibenik and his deputies when they really claimed that the damage was done by virtue of a contract concluded between Sibenik and Sunny Hvar. I'm going to tell you that the State's Attorney's office has found no damage, and I'm now telling you responsibly if the damage occurs that kind of rhetoric and insinuation of damage will actually result in possible damage. Your efficiency definitely doesn't need to be hidden behind insinuated damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59472	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the wrong context, he listed two people’s proverbs, clearly misusing them. He ate a donkey wolf, you don't know who ate the bow, smelled it. So, people's wisdom as it is in the story, but it's completely wrong because it's known very well that the wolf didn't eat the donkeys, that everything will come to order. To know who ate onion, who smelled it, and you know it. Especially in Zagreb's Holding, where the most money was laundered because the SDP was funded in Zagreb's Holding, so we made a little war, so there's no money, and now we've changed everything in Holding. A party-like Holding will again fund the SDP and I think everything will be fine. You don't have to be afraid of the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59474	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll correct two incorrect allegations from Mr. Lek. The first was when he said Croatia has the characteristics of corrupt authorities and corrupt states. I believe that there are no Croatian features, that this is happening in Croatia, but that we as a country and as a government do not have these features because we can immediately ask where Hypo comes from, where does Daimler come from? And secondly, when you said there was no real will for the authorities in Croatia to deal with corruption and crime. I think it's completely incorrect because it's clear to the blind that all three segments of government in this country have a strong will to deal with corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59476	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect quote by distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59477	So MP Leko said the fight against corruption is not the will of this government and the actions of the rule of law but the pressure from Europe. That's an incorrect allegation. And the truth is, this government has decided to end corruption regardless of whose party it comes from. And it is hypocritical to suspect the good intentions of this government, because you could have started anti-corruption activities in 2000, not your activities corruptly pushed under the SDP rug. Because unfortunately, your parents still today think that there are 7 kunas in Brijuni, like Chinese restaurants, and they're still going there today for a vacation, that's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59478	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Only the first part of the correction by counterpart Kunsta is in line with the Rules of Procedure. Everyone else who corrected it wasn't me, it was something that was given up at the HDZ Club to speak. It's nothing to do with my discussion, so you didn't protect me in holding a session and respecting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59480	The Honorable Representative is not injured by the Rules of Procedure according to the usual way of correcting incorrect allegations from both sides and from yours. Always make it right first, if it's fixed at all, and behind that you can't give what I'm answering to you right now, and behind that is a certain explanation that everyone here in the House is giving. Thank you very much. Let's move on. We are going to an individual debate, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was a little late for this debate today, but here I arrived, and I wanted to say the reason I was late, and this conversation with the citizens I met. One told me like this, imagine, Doctor, when after a while you put your suit on and put your hand in your pocket, and you find the forgotten 100 kuna that brings you happiness. Someone left 2.5 million kunas in the drawer these days, but it worked for his bad looks. That's an interesting thesis. And the difference is between 100 kuna and 2.5 million kuna. The second said that the government is so burdened with corruption affairs, crime, and all possible spokeswoman in the prime minister who is constantly calling for a fight against corruption, as they say to the last breath, that is, without any exceptions. The citizen who met me says, most likely she's a European protected witness, because she's in that group from which one by one recruits another every day to say I can't tell criminals and thieves yet, because the court didn't finish but there's doubt about it. You see how the people say I'm late for that now, because I've talked to the citizens and they've given me these ideas that I'm just discussing these things here today. When I spoke from this pay phone or from the one I said that Croatia is the biggest money launderer not only in this region, but in Europe and the world, then no one reacted. You see, the directive has come, so to speak, Mr Leko, not a recommendation, etc., but a directive has come, a European Union order to you as obedients to include these two articles in our law. And it has to be done and it has to be done. And now there is a clear money laundering and not organised crime, but a mob like President Josipovic, the mafia, said. And that should be included in our dictionary even though it's not our word, it's Italian. But there is no better and more concrete expression for this kind of event, for this kind of people who have become the way of life in this Croatia has become a lifestyle in which politics is deeply embedded and clearly there is no initiative. He's got initiative, but how does he end up? A month's detention, freedom. Five days of detention, freedom, two days of detention, freedom. Where are the effects? I'm talking about the return of what was acquired in a criminal way. Where's the so-called. Expropriation? Confiscation of crime acquired by property, corruption. No, there's no effect the people have been robbed. 50% of the pensioners receive less than 2,000 kuna. And we're talking here today is Old People's Day. I've been told by the second lady I met at the square just in connection with Old People's Day, so why does this government hate us? Why does the government hate us? Why does politics hate us? We're not just talking about ruling, we're talking about total politics. Well, you know what kind of perception they have of us, when they have to go with the thongs and beat you all up there. Gentlemen, these are the proposals of the law without final effects, without final judgments in terms of what Ingrid said, confiscation of property, so when he hits the pocket of whoever stole it, when he returns what was acquired in a criminal way, there will be no happiness. Namely, the first news he knows, he's arrested, he's arrested, he's imprisoned, so what's worth to a citizen, so it's just kind of something that's actually trying to say or "prove" that there's something going on in the repression and organized crime or the mob to say clearly and loudly that there's no delay here. Money laundering, it says loud and clear. I said that Croatia became not to say and the rest of the money laundromat, only the question is where it is drying, after washing goes and drying. And it's dried in foreign bank accounts or in pockets or in someone's strictness. Now, these stricter bills need to be emptied, these bank accounts should be sent back to Croatia, then we did something, then we can help our citizens and those pensioners with that money, and those old people are told even though I have 58, so I don't know which category I belong to, but it doesn't matter. Furthermore, the SDP gentlemen, so you had the opportunity to lose the election in 2003, because you did not sanction criminal privatisation and conversion, so that's what citizens respect you all the time, you know that yourself, and by the way you had more junk in your backyard that you didn't clean up. You are mentioned by HDZ and Daimler, not to mention both the EPH and Viktor Lenco and the Rijeka Bank, and I don't know what not and hotels etc. And that we do not speak of them, of their yard, that we do not say it, they will not be able to fill it in ten years. So gentlemen, both of you, today you're here with this little, three-list has this bill, you're pettyly starting to crack, but there's a lot more to it for both of us. It's Friday, so you set this up for a vote not to hear this, but they'll hear about all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59482	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First of all, she's a respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59483	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And thank God that you, Mr. Grubisic, have come all the way here from so many citizens who have met you. I think that in this city of Zagreb no one would have met you with these questions but with someone else. However, I will correct the incorrect allegations, which is that the style and way of life in Croatia and these governments is just corruption. Maybe it's in Osijek, maybe it's the style and way of the HDSSB, believe the style and way of this government it's not. No, it's not, because this government has proven to fight corruption, to fight crime. And making up citizens was like this now I was going to the Parliament and they met me a group of citizens, that's good to say, a group of citizens who say please ask, please ask the MPs until this HDSSB itself is here, and in Osijek and the county are doing nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59484	Thank you very much. Time! Let's move on. Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59485	Well, my colleague Grubisic said that that's exactly who the old people asked why this government hates them. That's incorrect. This government did not touch any of those old people's social rights, while some governments did. But you know what the problem is, Mr. Grubisic? If this keeps up with your party to start people running to other countries then you have no chance of ever coming to power and helping those old people because you simply won't be there soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59486	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59487	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59488	Thank you. Please, let's make a deal. Don't abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure in this way. The Rules of Procedure were not injured because they corrected the incorrect assumption and do not pollemize with me. ... Don't pollemize, and there's no reason for us to have a discussion like that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your Honor, don't go further, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no reason. Don't. ... Whoever belongs... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, I'm giving you a warning because you're making a mess here at the session. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59489	You're making a mess, sir. So listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59490	Your Honor, don't go further, please. Calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59491	Please conduct a session in the Rules of Procedure, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59492	I'm taking her, and that's why I'm warning you not to...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59493	Thank you very much for your warning, that's the way to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59494	That's why you got the warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59495	Yeah, yeah, well, that's what I want.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59496	We have one replica, a distinguished representative and vice president of the House, Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59497	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, you mentioned information from the media about how 2.5 million were found in the drawer of a suspect who was sentenced and detained for a month. However, my colleague Grubisic, you were not fair until the end because you did not provide new information, which is information from the lawyer that these money was not found. I am certainly not saying this because I think Mr. Barisic is not politically responsible at least for the abuses that will eventually be sanctioned, but because I am an opponent of the witch hunt that you are involved in, which I think characterises all these arrests because he is trying to draw attention to individuals who should be... which hangs and draws attention to the responsibility and the political authorities that covered it all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a simple system. No one will convince me that only individuals are guilty and responsible, as Mr. Glavas is probably not alone guilty of all those abuses in privatisation in Slavonia from the '90s, which is why many who defend him for this is convicted, arrested and convicted. It's the wrong system that made it possible, it's the wrong ones who turned their heads on the other side, it's the ones who were protecting their chairs because you don't trust me with this president of my party who could order me to break the law, to do abuse for him and my party. Well, ask yourselves what it's all about. I'd be relieved, I'd be...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59498	Thank you very much. Your time is up! ... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Replica response, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59499	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and colleague Antunović, the first part of the replica I would still agree with you and I would agree with you even though no one saw the drawer, so one day is full, and the next day is empty. And to this second part of your replica that refers to you said privatisation, I don't know what in Slavonia, there's no investigation about it, and when it does, we can talk about it. Therefore, you are already in advance and the Priors are talking about something that is not there. Therefore, you found yourself so that he who is sickened is scratched.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59500	Thank you. And we still have one individual discussion. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here, what we're changing today consists of a few words, but extremely important words. Obviously, USKOK will better recognize the words "laundering money" than hiding the illegally obtained money, and we hope that the washing will stop because the laundry was like a story. And when our dear colleague Grubisic gives us one lesson and another, I also want to know how that money Mr. Drmic wore to the judge was washed and where he ended up. But here it was, so it wasn't well washed, obviously it wasn't, where it was drying, very well. Money laundering started a long time ago, but we remember some of the cases that our fellow SDP colleagues are hiding. Let's say money laundering through the Supremes. That was great. A private shipyard of 100 million kuna, and then the SDP Government sits on a yacht every year that regularly came to pick them up at a small port of today's Kolan municipality where they boarded, sunbathed and brought essentials to this country. So, on a private yacht, which cost them 100 million kuna. If they'd given more than one person to know, they could've been doing it somewhere still. A hundred million isn't that big a hard fellow's money it goes easy. Obviously, it's well-washed money from Daimler because he doesn't know the trail, but we know how much it cost us because about 200 million more was paid than Daimler offered in the competition, so that 4.5 million euros that in the pockets of these loudest colleagues ended up being washed somewhere, obviously well stored. But it won't be like my colleague Leco says he ate a donkey wolf. It probably happened similarly with the tilt trains, because without the big bribe, no one in their right mind would buy those trains for an existing railroad, the existing railroads we have. And the result of what's happening right now is the purchase of inadequate trains practically suburban trains destroyed by war and unrenewed railways, and it couldn't have gone without bribes. But slowly. Everything comes in a little bit, swims to the surface, and so will that. It is certain that the money was washed well in the Rijeka markets, but at least, but it did not dry well, so they must have found it while it was very wet, so it is known where 50 million went, where we invested it heard it, and it will be known how money was washed and from the construction of the Rijeka swimming pools and the Rijeka hall. Because at the end of the story, every investment cost exactly twice as much as planned. That's what the Rivers know, and I think they enjoy throwing themselves into the pool on their heads, especially when there's no water because they don't have any water left. Money, I mentioned earlier, was very well washed in Holding, because the whole party, the entire SDP from Holding, was funded. But there are companies in Holding that deal with water and sewage, so money is easy to wash, but there's a problem when the mayor says they don't listen when he comes to the SDP's blacklist. And then we'll punish him through the new Holding, because that new Holding is here's a party one-brainer and he'll do everything he can to make the money run neatly again because, dear God, the elections are coming. Once again, we need as much money washed up as possible to have the most jumbo posters as the SDP usually has in Zagreb, to smile best and to blame everything but ourselves. Because my colleague Leco mentioned there to say that this government ordered the State's Attorney's Office. And I can ask the question how the SDP government in those underage four years froze the State's Attorney's Office because nothing happened. Nothing happened. The big promises of 2000 ended in nothing, and there was an affair that was in the story, all possible stories about the INA of all possible, crime, the destruction of INA transport, the machinations with private pumps of Europetroll and so on. Well, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, As now counterpart Jovanovic jumps as soon as the SDP is concerned. And a good question last night was asked at "Open" which, if you happen to come to power, you won't allow anything to stop the crime in your ranks. So this should be well considered, for it is obvious that crime is viewed unilaterally and is not unilaterally. I already said today that the SDP was less than 20% of the time in 20 years, not full 20% in power. But the crime was triple that. So, neatly, they've worked all four years to beat the record. Maybe the Guiness book should record it, because I don't know, it's probably in South America the records are some better. But at least for Europe we'd be somewhere up here. So there's a lot to talk about. Normally, tax evasion is what we do from day to day, that works in many companies, and that USKOK will have regardless of party ownership of company owners there will have a lot of work, and all that work will be good for the state budget because the fact is that many are secreting in various ways of tax to actually be excused. Look, they have a phenomenal excuse. We can't survive on the market if we're doing everything legally. Well, the law requires the company to stay on the market, i.e. the company owners do not force workers to strike hunger under the tent for a week, while numerous owners of such companies or similar companies who are irregularly paying workers to exaggerate the luxury, sell out the most luxurious cars on Velesajm in a few days, that yachts are sold the same in two, three days. Well, I think that's where the Bounce is gonna have a lot of work to do. And that's good and that's how it's supposed to be. There are a lot of things we could talk about today, because obviously these two sentences in the law, two and a half sentences, not full three articles almost inspired us for all of this. But while we're talking about someone else, so talk a little bit about yourself, 'cause stories can be very messy about you. It would be such a good novel in the sequels of a clear crime of content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59502	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect quote and four replicas. First of all, the correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59503	It is incorrect to assume that the SDP's participants were the SDP's authorities during the 2000/2003 period. He steals. There are no clues to that, let alone any arguments. It's true we didn't steal, but unfortunately we didn't do anything that made the people resent us a lot and sent us a message in the next election. We did not sanction those who stole or created conditions for the more efficient functioning of the judiciary and the judicial authorities in order to sanction those who abused their position, abuse power. But we didn't steal it exactly, we didn't support a system in which the political government supports abuse and corruption, and by this we differ significantly from the previous and the authorities after us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59504	Thank you. Now what the esteemed representative Leco, who had previously given the breach of the Rules of Procedure, said the correction was, and then went to another. That's it, I just mean, everyone's doing it that way, both of you. Four replicas. First of all, she is a respected representative, Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Markovanovic, you have apostrophe of money laundering in your debate and have set numerous examples. Well, here I would actually like to give you some examples that I met in Sisak-Moslavina County, so I'd like to ask you to comment on and say whether it's money laundering or not. Namely, a tender for road reconstruction, from Ludina to Novska, was launched for a length of 3 kilometers, and then the same performer was given directly to perform works for the other 45 kilometers. Given that we have serious information that this contractor has funded the campaign of a senior SDP official, I wonder whether it is money laundering or not. Also, it was a renovated cottage owned by the husband and senior SDP official, and it was renovated by the company that renovated the Sisak birthplace, so I was wondering if you could comment on whether it was money laundering. Also, during her four-year term, this high SDP official gained property of 4 million kuna, is that she reported a salary of 14 thousand kuna, then it turned out that it was a little miscalculated, that the salary was still 19 thousand kuna, but I wonder if it is possible that over 4 years she obtained so much money from her work and bought all these properties. So I'm wondering if it's all part of the money laundering category. I know that the summering of some MPs for 7 kuna is not about money laundering, but about immorality, but it's good that you've apostrophe that you don't need to look unilaterally at the situation, because politics is what people are doing, and what I'm trying to do is make as many good people in politics as possible, because then politics will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59506	I thank you, the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59507	Well, I have to tell my dear colleague that, uh, all the cases of what she listed are very clear money laundering. But it should also be said that the mayor has remained well-punished for all that she does, I don't know how many counselors, how many counselors she washes, 14 is she? I guess their feet wash so that it's in the Bible sense of eating. But the mayor did it very cleverly. At least 20 times, her former president of the state was with her, and she looked over his shoulder every time, and no one dared touch her. I hope that the current president will end this circus on Brijuni and the vacation of the SDPs for 7 kuna, because we'll have to get, if all SDP representatives go there, we'll have to get new boats. Finally, they can't be driven to the beach by these humble boats, you should do it a little bit, make a little high standard for those who accuse everyone but themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59508	Thank you. We have a replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mr. Markovanovic asking about Mr. Drmic who's not here, so it would be better and better if he asked him about his money, which he probably has the right to have as he wants, and for the citizens there's no harm in that. On the contrary, it is a great moral and material damage when HDZ buys its beloved BMW leader for 4 and a half million kuna, or when it sells expensive electricity and sells cheaply, and causes damage to our taxpayers in the amount of 600 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59510	Replica reply, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59511	Well, here I have to say to the esteemed representative, that it wasn't, I wasn't talking about the damage, about the damage to the citizens, but where you were taking the money to the judge who was deciding about your very president. So if you'd said we'd been collecting for those under the tent or something, I'd have figured out, but where to the judge, let him reduce persecution his own, self-initiative persecution from another country in a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59512	Or from America this one of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59513	Thank you. Don't throw it away, please. There's no point in that. Replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59514	Thank you very much... You have well noticed that, in fact, in the 2000s, somewhere up until 2004, the work of the state's attorney's office and these other bodies that should be investigating certain corruption was in some way frozen. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] And that is why this excessive hypocrisy that in principle today they are calling this power and government in fact not to do it for the purpose of resolving corruption, but because of the pressure of Europe. Well, you know, I ask them, when they were in power, when they often mention the '90s, so what they did when they kept calling, they talk about this criminal privatisation, that they didn't discover anyone and prosecuted anyone who participated in that criminal privatisation, but they simply call it today. Why? Because most of them were on boards and boards at the time. Some at 10, 15, and good money was collected when they were selling these companies, because they were members of those bodies. And you know, it's not the dog that barks for the village, it's the dog that barks for himself. It's simply a fear that they too will not be nicked by this jump to not be caught, especially as far as Daimler is concerned. That's why it's this big anger, and in some ways I'd say I'm afraid that they're not too upset about it, and you've noticed this well, so I have here a list of at least 10 specific affairs where people are sitting here today and nothing happened to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59515	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59516	Well, dear colleague, it's true that too many affairs were in those years, and nothing happened to them. But let's be patient, my optimism really doesn't end, that we'll get the State's Attorney's answer for what the Croatian Parliament sent them, that at least they'll say we didn't get here, we gave the wrong guy a little bit, so he didn't do anything like that, as far as Cacic is concerned. As far as the others are concerned, there's a story like that in the story. And as for hypocrites, the SDP is always able to go to the protesters, so whatever they do, so sit her down with them on the ground, on concrete in Warsaw and say this is wrong, but she's not able to go under the tent of Kamensky's worker and say, "Listen, we're with you."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59517	Thank you. And we have a replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't agree with one of the people's proverbs you mentioned here, it's one of the few I don't really agree with, and I'm always against it when a wolf eats a donkey. Because I think that donkeys are really valuable animals and rare and it doesn't matter if the wolf eats them. On the other hand, I don't agree with my colleague Lek when he said it, and you've paraphrased his speech. On the other hand, it is said, and you also spoke of sins that one side bids and sees, and the other one does not see. Then there's another Latin proverb that says that people actually wear bisage on their shoulders and see, so that's what if someone doesn't know what they're bisage, that's what they're bisage, let's say a bag where in one part we see other people's sins because we carry them forward, and we don't see our own because they're behind. So I suggest, I really suggest that we take these bisages off each other's shoulders and put them somewhere on the side so that we can see and see objectively at the same time even if we put them on those donkeys and view them as such. However, make sure that the donkeys do not die under such bisagas because the people in charge of the anti-corruption committees are actually doing so much demagogue and doing so much damage that in fact everything they do is doing for the most mahogany and most political reasons. So the protection in that case is again a donkey that doesn't innocently get hurt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59519	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59520	Thank you. Here, my colleague, I support what you said about donkeys. Donkeys really valuable animals, protected animals, and I'm sure wolves, SDP wolves from Brijuni haven't eaten any of the donkey meat. Definitely. Because it would cost a lot more than 7 kuna, those three meals, but I realize some of them did the job. Here we are reading that colleague Stazic was washing windows, vacuuming, meo, maintaining cleanliness, and most importantly roasting little chats and making money in that way by which he swears there, that he has a allowance, right? So, here Brijuni can be extraordinary for hiring if employees of MPs who, with their salary, can always earn something in the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59521	Thank you. And by doing so, the list of those reported for discussion has been exhausted. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59522	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to say thank you for everything, for the whole debate today. And I also can't resist, not to say once again that through a whole series of laws the government has proposed to this respected House, which this distinguished House adopted, the government has shown an unequivocal desire and determination in the fight against organised crime and corruption. One of the segments of this struggle and that determination is today's law. That's why I think it may be incorrect for these good intentions and for the government's entrepreneurship to politicise and question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59523	Thank you. Given the fact that we thought we'd start the act, because there's no condition for point 13, point 14, but we wouldn't get to 12 for when we announced the vote or opened it, so I suggest we wait until 12 o'clock and proceed with the vote. Don't part, wait here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59524	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. number 612. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask Mrs Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary, to declare the amendments made to the Legislative Committee on Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59525	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59526	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And on Article 2, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59527	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-01-0.u59528	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Therefore, pursuant to Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, to pass this law, requires most of all MPs in the Assembly, so at least 77 votes. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 110 votes for, one abstention and nothing against, along with the amendments adopted. I'm warning you ladies and gentlemen, always to make sure it's blushed in that place you wanted to turn red. Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue with the work of the 20th session and begin with the announced agenda point - Proposal for a constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 619 Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Damir Kontrec, State Secretary at the Department of Justice. Here you go.
