ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59530	Your Honor, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives. Before you is the Proposal for a Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which has its basis for adoption in the provision of Article 30. Changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments to the Constitution of June of this year can be systematised into two groups. On the one hand, the first group of amendments concerns the regulation of issues arising from individual negotiating chapters with the European Union and the modalities of the accession and functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. The second group of changes is the result of the initiatives of civil society associations and certain institutions, or they are proposed to comply with the parliamentary practice of other countries. Application of the constitutional provisions contained in the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia requires the adoption of new whole laws or the harmonisation of existing laws, and Article 30 Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are prescribed that within 6 months of the date of the amendment of the Constitution, the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia will be adopted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has already referred this constitutional law to the Croatian Parliament in the process of adopting the legislative proposal for which the obligation stems from certain negotiating chapters with the European Union. I note that the Law on Elections of Representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament, Law on the Rights of Citizens of Other Member States of the European Union in Elections for Representative Authorities of Units of Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union, Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Participation of Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, Police, Civil Protection and State Employees in Peace Operations and Other Activities abroad has been adopted. Last Friday you adopted a package of law in the area of justice. The proposed constitutional law requires direct application of certain provisions of the Constitution for which no constitutional law or law is to be adopted under the Constitution. The subject matter is the setting of deadlines for the adoption of certain new laws, the harmonisation of existing laws, the setting of a specific deadline for the harmonisation of laws governing the selection of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the special deadline for the harmonisation of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the adoption of certain laws before the entry into force of this constitutional law does not exclude the obligation of the Croatian Parliament to comply with the relevant provisions of the Constitution in order to ensure the harmonisation of the legal system as a whole. In particular, in the amendment to the Constitution entitled 7a, the European Union regulates the issues of membership in the European Union, such as the legal basis for membership and the transfer of constitutional powers, participation in the institutions of the European Union, the exercise of rights in the European Union and the rights of citizens of the European Union, by also requiring the application of certain provisions of this Chapter to adopt specific laws as well as the harmonisation of existing laws. Finally, the obligation to comply with the other laws and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament with the Constitution is prescribed. In accordance with Article 161(1), The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of this constitutional law by emergency procedure, since the Croatian legislation is harmonised with the regulations of the European Union. The proposer has adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and, on behalf of the Proposer, these amendments are hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59531	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, Mr Emil Tomljanovic, chairman of the Committee. Here you go. And on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the first report of the Constitution Committee. At the 61st session held on 5 October 2010, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the final proposal of the law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Government of 16 September 2010. The final proposal of the Constitutional Law was discussed by the Committee on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as parent body of employment. The debate shall give an opinion on the possible need to supplement Article 7. The final proposal of the Constitutional Law by specifying the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which can be directly applied to remove possible ambiguities in the application of the constitutional law. In this regard, it is pointed out that the provision of Article 152. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shows which provisions cannot be applied directly and that they are Article 7. Final proposal of the Constitutional Law prescribed areas and time limits for legal harmonisation with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. After the debate, the Committee unanimously, therefore 9 votes in favour, proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee also unanimously proposed 9 votes for the Croatian Parliament and a decision on the establishment of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And a report from the Legislative Committee. So, at the 101st session held on 28 September 2010, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the final draft law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 16 September 2010. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure and to submit three amendments to the final draft law. First in Article 6. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: I don't think you need to read them. You have them in the report itself, as well as the Proposer, or State Secretary, on behalf of the Proposer, has already been manifested on the same amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59533	Thank you. Is there any interest in other committees? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59534	Thank you very much, once again, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, at the very beginning of my presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I will say that the HDZ Club supports the draft constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The basis of this Constitutional Law, of course, and this is also seen from the opening reasoning, therefore, and the basis of this itself is the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or the amendment of the Constitution that has been carried out, necessary. Therefore, constitutional and legal adjustment for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union on the one hand. On the other hand, constitutional and legal requirements were also made for effective functioning in the political and legal environment of the Republic of Croatia ahead of and after the accession of the Republic of Croatia. What are the constitutional institutes, how can we systematicize them? I don't think it's necessary to repeat this part from the opening argument itself. In the final line of discussion we have held and this House has declared constitutional changes, so on 16 June this year and in these amendments to the Constitution, in its final provisions, so the final provisions of the newly adopted Constitution or new constitutional provisions determine that the Croatian Parliament will adopt the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia from 6 months after the date of the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. from 16 June 2010. Therefore, the amendments to the Constitution came into force on the date of the declaration already mentioned on 16.6.2010. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Also Articles 133, 144, 145 and six of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and those provisions of the Constitution shall enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is therefore proposed and should be declared in accordance with the constitutional deadlines, and given the fact that the amendment of constitutional provisions contained in the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia requires the adoption of new whole laws or the harmonisation of existing laws, it is necessary to access the adoption of this Constitutional Act in order to comply in that sense with the provisions of the specific laws with the provisions of the amended constitutional provisions. And whenever we discuss the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, it is actually in the area of demarcation that constitutional provisions can and should be applied directly on the one hand and on the other hand, for which constitutional provisions and in the sense of their implementation need to be adopted new laws. In this respect, it is also intended to support the provision of a law which regulates that the provisions of the Constitution for which no constitutional law or law is to be adopted shall apply directly from the date of the declaration of the Constitution. On the other hand, the laws allowing the application of the provisions of the Constitution and which constitutional provisions cannot be directly applied will be adopted within the time limits, I repeat within the time limits prescribed by this Constitutional Law, noting that the laws adopted before the entry into force of this Constitution do not exclude the obligation of the Croatian Parliament to comply with the relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, the provision of Article 7 of the proposed Constitutional Law should be highlighted, as it directly states which laws should be adopted, i.e. which laws will specifically regulate and within what time limits under this Constitutional Law. It is noteworthy that these are the area of defence, the area of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, then the Penal Code, the State Office for Audit, that there are areas that regulate the issues of courts, courts, state judicial council, State Attorney's Office, election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, referendum, the right to access information, education of public defenders and, therefore, other areas, noting that under these rules, it is as one specific regulation or special regulation and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In this regard, it is therefore necessary to support this proposed Article 7 which not only determines the time limit of six months for harmonisation but is tax-based, which sets out exactly what laws will be adopted or the questions to which they will apply. Of course, this provision of the Constitutional Law does not exclude the direct application of those constitutional provisions for which laws do not need to be passed in the sense of their implementation. And according to everything exposed, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal of this Constitutional Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59535	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59536	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, the SDP club will support the adoption of the law, the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, but immediately we stress that we have one objection to the very text of the law and we will propose, in the form of amendments, that it be decided by the Croatian Parliament. The second thing we want to say is that this law is almost three months late, because the purpose of law-making is the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution to ensure legal certainty and the rule of law, not political arbitration, which could be if the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution did not specify the provisions to be developed. Therefore, by law to develop other regulations to ensure that the entire legal system is consistent in terms of the applicable principle in Croatia, the legal principle of constitutionality and the legality of the rules. What does that mean? This means that all regulations in the Republic of Croatia must comply with the Constitution, and the regulations of the lower rank must be, must not be contrary to the law. In order to achieve this and for the rule of law to take effect, it was appropriate to adopt a constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution when the constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution was declared, to specify how long the applicable laws which do not comply with the Constitution would apply, and to specify the provisions of the Constitution which may apply immediately after the declaration of the Constitution. So that's also the meaning of the amendment I announced. According to the proposed solutions, according to the proposed solutions in Article 2 of the Law which we are now talking about in principle, it is generally stated that the provisions of the Constitution which can be applied as such, and in Article 7, the areas are listed, legal areas for which laws are to be adopted under the Constitution, which will develop constitutional solutions on this matter. So we already have experience that we have chosen constitutional judges, or we have decided on the choice of judges on the basis of the direct application of the current Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and from the precautionary measures, as well as the very formulation of the applicable law of Article 7 where the area is, for example, a referendum, which is important because in real political time, many are interested in the question of the state referendum, we know that Parliament has made a decision to ask the Constitutional Court whether a referendum is necessary, we think that it is not the role of the court, but the role of Parliament, but let this matter go. Therefore, the current and acute situation is therefore necessary to avoid any interpretations that could lead us to a difference with the real situation in the Constitution, so we have proposed to supplement the provision of Article 7 of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, that the issues referred to in Article 7 of the Constitution of Croatia, other than the questions referred to in the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, referred to in Article 2 of this Act, and Article 2 of the Constitution can be applied directly, and the discussion was also held on the Committee on the Constitution. Of course, the ruling majority because of the relationship of the government's forces supported the government, but there were serious, direct proposals and professions and policies to supplement this article for the sake of every security as we propose. As the referendum, as I say, approached the date of the decision, different interpretations came, so it is in the interest of the legal certainty of the participants in this procedure to say the referendum immediately, if it comes to it, if the Constitutional Court decides, it will be carried out on constitutional arrangements, because there is no need for legal debate. So we believe that the law is welcome, and we believe that it is in the interest of the entire Parliament, the policy in general, legal certainty and respect for the position of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to specify the referendum immediately, if it comes to it, the state referendum will be implemented according to the current provisions of the Constitution, not wait for the law or manipulate it. Here's the shortest, I think it's fair to make the arguments. I hope that the Parliament will respect these arguments and that, in the interest of the purity of the legal term, the political messages, but also the hierarchy of the regulations, we will accept the amendment and decide that it is not disputed that the Constitution is directly applicable when it comes to the state referendum. We will vote in favour of the amendment and the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59537	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59538	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague who said incorrectly, and I'm going to quote that the adoption of this constitutional law is too late. It is not late because the provision of Article 151 of the new constitution says the Croatian Parliament will pass the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia within 6 months of 16 June 2010. So, absolutely in accordance with the constitutional provision, even before the deadline expires, and I am correcting that assumption that the adoption of constitutional law is too late in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59539	Thank you. On behalf of the club HNS, HSU, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59540	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement will support the adoption of this law... Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] From the very provision of the Constitution, but also Article 30 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia requires the adoption of this law. It lays down the direct application of the Constitution in areas where laws are not to be adopted or amended, and provides for what are the new laws to be adopted and what laws should be aligned with the provisions of the Constitution and the deadlines within which they must be done. This law in the processing of matter makes one difference in the time limits set for individual laws, for example. for the adoption of legislation that determines the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament sets a deadline of one year before the regular elections are held, which in other words means that it must be passed during this year, which is shorter than 6 months. This also warrants a special regulation of this matter. For the law... Articles 7 and 9, which are almost all the new laws to be passed or the laws of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to be amended, have been completed and a single period of 6 months has been set. [[You don't understand.]] And just the unnecessarily of this provision that, in two articles, when solutions and deadlines are the same, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired in this regard and prepared one amendment, however, since that same amendment was proposed by the Committee on Law, we in the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party will also support the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Furthermore, Article 8 of this proposal of the Constitutional Law states that the law governing the supervision of the Croatian Parliament in the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be adopted in the institutions of the European Union until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, with a view to determining that certain provisions of that law will enter into force on the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union. In view of this distinction, we do not understand why and in this case no deadline of 6 months has been set as well as other laws, unless the Government considers that the deadline could be shorter, and in that case we appreciate the optimism of the Government. Furthermore, Article 6 provides for a period of one year for the harmonisation of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court with a provision of Article 126. A constitution that regulates how constitutional judges are elected. Since the scope of the necessary interventions in that law is not such that it would require work on the law for more than 6 months, it seems to us that this proposed solution also stands for a particular political account. And in that sense, we at the HNS-HSU Club think that by prolonging for a year to change this law, we want to keep as long as possible the existing composition of the Constitutional Court, which is mostly achieved by the will of the parliamentary majority. Therefore, the HNS-HSU Club has submitted an amendment to the procedure, which would equalise the deadline for harmonising this law with the deadlines for the adoption and harmonisation of all other laws, in other words for 6 months, because we do not see the difference. We only repeat if there's such mathematics. And finally, we want to point out that the HNS-HSU club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59541	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59542	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Department of Justice's office, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. I'd be far happier if, say, this law was explained for example. Mr. Shex than they did or what they do to the department of justice. Because it will be hidden behind individual laws that will soon come into effect at this moment other than Mr. Shakespeare may not even know. And that's why I personally consider... You'll hear why. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That this constitutional law should be against. You can't be trusted gentlemen, you... So, what can I get you today's paper, yesterday's paper? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What am I looking at? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what he tells his wife at home, the kids. It's a shame. All we know is that we have 20, 30 laws ahead of us, and we don't know the details of your new laws. If this law passes, which requires a normal two-thirds majority of others, then they can be adopted by an ordinary majority. It is clear that without this constitutional law some laws are simply a dead letter on paper, but I would also like to know what specifically will include, let's say, some laws beginning with a referendum which Mr. Leko spoke about, all the way there to the Law of Defence, Penal Code, State Office for Auditions, Courts, Destiny Council. Then the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, and in particular which provisions and norms will contain future laws governing the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which are to be adopted no later than one year before the holding of regular elections for representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I am also interested in how the constitutional provision on the non-depreciation of war profit crimes will be implemented in positive regulations. Will generals, I don't know, lose billions or more kunas without property? Will those who trade oil with Milosevic, cigarettes, weapons also be left without property or will they continue to be pillars of society? How are we just going to solve this? As long as it's all going to work out. Or those tycoons who finance some will simply be protected, and the others who fail will come to you, for example, under legal norms. What would you do if you did, for example? I don't know a Jovica Stanisic head of UDBA during Milosevic was someone's main partner in some model Croatian companies? Would you touch this or would you just keep this up, or would you still protect those individuals? I'm just so afraid nothing's literally going to happen on that basis. It's also clear that this government just collapsed. If the opposition wants to be kept in power, the first thing they'll have to do is carry out a serious restitution of the entire apparatus because otherwise it won't be good. So don't also tell me that the main Croatian problem, it's a huge problem, what's being put on some in Remetec today. I think it's far more serious what happened to the oil trade, cigarettes, coffees, etc., that's the point. If someone comes out of the war, regardless of epolytes, with a billion kunas, what is that? Is he just a successful businessman or something? How did our tycoons get to a factory, or hotel? What are investment funds and things like that? One word I say all about what should contain this future Law on the revision of conversion and privatisation, but I also know that, unfortunately, there will be absolutely nothing in this country. Secondly, what may be my point, and it concerns this very electoral legislation, and it can also be linked to today's text in the Vecernji list, the deadline for the election on 11 March 2012. So who's going to put up with you gentlemen until 11.03.2012 if the elections don't happen before then? Here I read that... You're going to put up with me for a while after this pay phone, and maybe after that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here I read yesterday this morning by the Minister of Administration, Mr. Mlakar, said literally, and he confirmed yesterday that he had discussed with Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor the date of holding the next election to which the election deadline could be delayed. According to constitutional deadlines, the next elections can be held in November 2011 only on 11 March 2012 and all this is further normally stated, but it may also say that election units are changing. He says it hasn't been decided yet, but there are great differences between the number of voters, etc. and all of this simply raises a question in the context of this article which, the 5th final proposal of the Constitutional Law. What am I proposing now? Give me the gentleman's direction of change. What? ... Among other things, I didn't mean to say anything else. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Give us the direction to change that electoral legislation, and then let's vote for this constitutional law. And why am I speaking that way, Mr. Kunst? Because I didn't literally trust HDZ, and I don't believe it. Therefore, if we were to get the simple condition of this electoral legislation, then why don't we also vote on constitutional law, and this is how I think we're prepared for another ground floor game. But now I'm not going to talk anymore, I was going to mention something else, but maybe some other time. And so I'd just like to invite the Secretary of State, the representatives of the Justice Department, to simply answer us in which direction are certain laws simply going? What will be specific about the Law on Elections? How will the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation say? In which direction does the Law on a referendum or the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia go? I think that without it, we simply cannot, or at least we at the club will not personally raise our hands for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59543	Thank you very much. It saddens me that we don't trust each other. It's even worse that it's a mistrust, so then it goes on. Mr. Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59544	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government. Here I am going to continue my debate immediately and in the context of what Mr. Cain was saying. In fact, I don't think this expressed mistrust is even necessary because these proposals that will come under this Constitutional Law will come before the Parliament, and we will be able to discuss them, and then we will be able to, as agents, in some kind of democratic process, some debate on these proposals that will come to the benches of this House, I hope, to be able and to discuss therefore the proposals of the Government. Therefore, there is still a long way to go in connection with those laws that will come to be discussed on our benches through the Constitution and this Constitutional Law. Therefore, we will have the opportunity and then to discuss it, clearly who will vote for it, who won't, will have his right, and therefore I would say no to it, but also to discuss in the context of the the thesis that Mr Cain has made. The Constitutional Law or the Proposal for a Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for the Law has several interesting articles. I would first of all be determined according to Article 5, which states that the laws governing the selection of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, so to the Croatian Parliament, will be adopted no later than one year before the regular elections for representatives of the Croatian Parliament. So here's what I'd like to ask the proposer of this constitutional law proposal. Since the past elections were regular on November 25th, 2007 and three years have passed since then, so Article 5 is actually very close to the time for proposing this new law that regulates the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So here's a little question, so when will it come to this session even in this session on the benches of the Assembly a new bill governing the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament? That's one thing. It is clear that Article 7 is the most interesting item or sub-paragraph on the referendum. I see from the presentation of the SDP's representative that it could have done so without it and that it calls for the Constitution that has already been adopted. So, in short, it's as if the SDP is in a hurry to have that referendum formulation out of this category that can enter into the proposal to implement this constitutional law. I think it's good that we also discuss this referendum once again if we discuss the Government's proposal again. The deadlines for new laws governing the supervision of the Croatian Parliament over the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the institutions of the European Union Article 8 which I have not heard in the debate so far, and it is very important. This regulates the supervision of this Croatian Parliament over the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whose it is in the institutions of the European Union, which will take place until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, with due provisions on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Nicely put, nicely put, but I must note that unfortunately on the views or as the platforms are said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in negotiations with the European Union so far, especially in some chapters, we did not have much knowledge. I wouldn't use hard words if some things had been done in the negotiations in secret, especially in the negotiations on agriculture. But as we discussed in several discussions so far, we had no idea about the Croatian platform or the country's starting points in negotiations with the EU. Now Article 8 of the Croatian Parliament's supervision of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is being arranged. Unfortunately, we have not had such supervision during the accession negotiations with the European Union so far. So something in this sense may be improved, if no irreparable damage has already occurred in some segments in pre-accession negotiations, especially in the agriculture chapter, which our farmers, especially those in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, are very well informed and know very well, so they also visited Brussels and the European Union to see directly in the conversation with the people of the same branch, so in a conversation with the people of agriculture, which is what the Croatian peasants are waiting for by joining the Croatian European Union. In any case, I believe that this proposal for constitutional law is on the trail of the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that, in view of these provisions, except for this desire for information when it will be on the benches of the law governing the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the HDSB Club would be in favour of adopting such a proposal for a constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59545	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59546	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. As we recall, at a session on 16 June this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision declaring the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in fact this draft law implements the constitutional decision. It should be recalled that the Constitution was primarily changed for the sake of the future entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union, and that as a result of the initiative of civil society associations and certain institutions, the Constitution has been amended in relation to existing solutions relating to the complementarity of the original grounds by citing all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, redefining the roles and actions of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the introduction of the Institute of Non-Depreciation of War Profits and those from the process of conversion and privatisation, education, the introduction of the right to access to information, redefine the institution of the Ombudsman, the adoption of the state budget, the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the exercise of the electoral right of Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia and their representation in the Croatian Assembly, as well as a number of other issues. As the Constitution has been amended in order to create conditions for the future normal functioning of the Republic of Croatia within the European Union, it was necessary to prescribe this proposal for a law that would regulate the supervision of the Croatian Parliament on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the institutions of the European Union, as mentioned earlier in Article 8 to be adopted before the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, with due provisions on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Laws allowing the application of provisions of the Constitution which cannot be applied directly to the defence, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Criminal Law, the State Audit Office, the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Office, the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia as well as the referendum, then the right to access information, will be brought into line with the Constitution within 6 months of the date of the declaration of this constitutional law. This proposal also provides that the laws governing the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament must be adopted no later than one year before the regular elections are held for representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as well as that the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court will be brought into line with the provisions of Article 125. The Constitution within a year of the declaration of this constitutional law. The adoption of this law will allow for the full implementation and application of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia within our entire legal system and therefore the Croatian Peasant Party club supports the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59547	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59548	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Only four comments regarding the proposed Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. First, I see that some confuse the provision of Article 5. The law that laws establishing the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament must be passed no later than one year before the elections are held. Such a provision also exists in the current law, the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, therefore it is not a new provision and it is good that such a provision is stated in this constitutional law. It is an important guarantee to voters, but also to participants in the election race that at least a year before the election they know by which rules the elections will be held. Also possible deadlines for holding elections are to be read from the Constitution and the election law, and therefore it is not necessary to read the paper in order to know which is the first and what deadline for holding the next parliamentary elections. But this provision of Article 5 is not a protection and does not guarantee the possibility to amend the Law on Election Units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament immediately before the elections. Because it is not a law that determines the election procedure, and there are those who speculate that a certain answer has already been reached that this law is being changed immediately before the election, that there will be either a reduction in the number of electoral units or the number of MPs elected in a particular constituency. Since such speculations may upset or allow for a change at the last minute. It would be good for those who know clearly about the Croatian public to tell whether such changes are being prepared or not. Second, it concerns the deadline set out in Article 6 that only within one year will the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court be brought into line with constitutional changes. I don't really understand why this law should have a deadline for a year when we provide for six months for all other laws. I think Mr. Secretary of State would have to explain why he's been here for a year, because if they're just technical reasons, then six months is a good time. If there are other reasons, then you must tell us, of course, if you may. Third. Article 7 refers to the laws to be adopted within six months, since, as indicated or by the structure of this article, it means that constitutional provisions cannot be applied directly and between them is also mentioned in the referendum. So, the area that the new law must regulate within the next six months. Does this mean that the government considers that any national or local referendum that would have to be held before the legal amendments and the expiry of the six-month period is carried out under the old constitution? I quote: "Laws allowing the application of the provisions of the Constitution that cannot be applied directly, so now says the referendum." Therefore, this article unequivocally states that the area of the referendum cannot be directly applied by the constitutional provision of the amended Constitution, which I believe is not true. And I pray when this law will prepare not to forget to consult and consult with local and regional self-government units because this law among other things is important and the process of recalling the heads of municipalities, cities and counties and conducting a local referendum and it would not be good for the Government to come to the Croatian Parliament with a proposal for this law without us in the Croatian Parliament knowing the views of associations that gather municipalities, cities and counties because you have enough time for now to have these consultations to be conducted. Furthermore, the law here also states that the Penal Code should be implemented within six months. I want to believe that the current situation in Croatia will be clear enough this time to propose amendments to the Penal Code and finally realize that we must intervene and protect the interests of Croatian workers. "The Stone" is just one example, where, by violating the provisions of foreign bank law in Croatia, in the most harsh way, they have entered the right of workers. "Samensko" but also a large number of other companies are companies in which workers are required contributions such as pension and health care are not paid in continuity for two years, and yesterday I learned irregularly ten years ago. We have a law, a special law on mandatory contributions. In that law, there is a provision that the corporate bank is obliged to notify the Tax Administration within 30 days of any payment of the salary and where contributions for pension and health are not paid. Therefore, any transaction and payment of salaries to workers, without being paid at the same time and the bank's contributions, each bank in Croatia had to report to the Tax Administration. It's a protective mechanism that the state tried to influence them to make such... I am sorry that a provision that also existed, which obliged the REGOS central registry, was rejected from that law, that within 30 days each insurance company must notify of the non-payment of mandatory contributions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what happens now? Banks are in waste with employers and help them directly out of their capital interests to pay salaries without paying contributions to health and pension insurance. It's not according to our rules of criminality, it's a violation that will be sanctioned with you're not going to trust 5,000 kn fines, criminal penalties. And the damage done to workers is measured by tens of millions of kunas. So, I want to believe that taught by the example of "The Stone" and similar cases back only a few days will the Government be obliged to harsher sanction all those who violate existing laws when it comes to the exercise of labour rights. And finally. Article 8 provides that the law governing the control of the Council of Government in the institutions of the European Union will be adopted until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Union. I believe that here instead of a word or a term of "access" should be the deadline until the signing of an access contract. So before the date of accession, rather than the signing of an access contract. Because this law and those laws that will determine the relations between Parliament, the Government and the European Parliament and the European Commission must know before they come to the referendum, before a referendum is held in Croatia, and not only after that. And I think that is why here in Article 8 instead of "until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union" should be "a deadline until the signing of the accession treaty of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59549	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59550	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, an esteemed colleague incorrectly said that the referendum was conducted by the Constitution. An esteemed colleague, the Constitution, does not implement the referendum, but the basis of the law, and in this sense the constitutional provision says that the referendum is passed by law and not only that, but that the law can also prescribe the conditions for holding an advisory referendum. So, the Constitution does not implement the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59551	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today at 13.00 we will have a vote on one item of the agenda that is necessary to bring into force. So, at 1:00, we have a vote. We continue the work of course until half-two, then the breaks and then the work of the afternoon continues normally. Tomorrow we'd have a regular debate up until about 12 hours ago, when we'd have to stop voting on the other points of the agenda. Or if we vote or don't vote, in any case we need one time space to arrange the assembly, because we have a celebration, so a solemn session on Independence Day, which falls on Friday, and then, and at that session, the state awards for science will be shared. Something like last year, just a little bit in the short process, because last year we spent a lot of time around it. So here I am at 1 o'clock asking the clubs to consider it, at 1 o'clock today, and tomorrow, this item of the agenda I hope we will be able to finish, so tomorrow we have what I announced, which may take up to 14 o'clock when maybe the Parliament then is finished. At least this week. Thank you very much. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59552	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. As it is therefore perfectly clear, this proposal of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia lays down precise deadlines when the law is to be adopted and the laws to be adopted by those deadlines. I will only say something in general about the deadlines, more I will commit myself to certain laws, or provisions for which there are today, especially at this moment of the current dispute whether the whole law applies directly, or some of its provisions. Here, a colleague named Lesar noted in Article 5 that the laws governing the choice of representatives in the Croatian House as it has been so far, the provisions so far, must be adopted no later than one year before the regular elections for representatives of the Croatian Parliament. So that's the deadline. There are also these other deadlines, those that cannot be applied directly, that will be brought within 6 months. We already have some old experience, I'd say the wrong practice that needs to be changed. So these are deadlines, but there's no reason to bring all these laws as soon as possible for legal certainty, constitutionality. As we know, here is the first reading, which is certainly commendable, the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Proposal for a Law on the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Office. So it should be with these other laws, so they should be found here as soon as possible for the debate, so that they can first of all discuss themselves in a quality way, but also bring it in within the appropriate time. Especially with regard to the current political moment, so although regular elections are at the end of next year, in any case knowing our political opportunity and listening to the spirit of time, such a law should be passed as soon as possible. Most of the opposition, even at the Committee on the Constitution, and then at the plenary session, was the debate on the referendum itself, and here we were dissatisfied with the SDP club, and the rest of the opposition were opposed to the Constitutional Court’s own question. It is not necessary to forget here the words referred to by the ruling ones, yet then on the Committee on the Constitution it is said that it is not known, therefore on the explicit issue of the media, whether the Constitution will be applied directly, or whether a referendum should be adopted. At that time, the rulings said, many repeated that this referendum law did not yet know that we would see it. Now that this proposal for a constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution is proposed and explained, so when the matter of the referendum is addressed to the Constitutional Court, it is now guaranteed that if the Constitutional Court gives a green light, that the Constitution will be applied directly. After all, we have had the direct application of the Constitution so far, although no judge has been elected for the judge of the Constitutional Court, but in any case the procedure was under the application of the new Constitution. Therefore, those provisions have been applied directly. As shown in Article 7 above, what are the laws which, at least here, are listed in the proposal, which cannot be applied directly. So this little catalog goes to the referendum and the Penal Code. For the sake of our legal certainty, that should be clarified. By reading both language and any interpretation you apply, you will conclude that nothing can be done until it is passed, you will act until the new Law on Referendum is passed. However, this is not the case, because there are those standards that are directly applied, which even now exist among us by consensus, so in my opinion it should be regulated, except for certain provisions directly referred to by the Constitution. That's what it takes. We will not burden the text, and this constitutional law will not be for single use. Same with the Penal Code. So what makes the Penal Code change, we all know that on our initiative in the Constitution there is a provision on non-depreciation of criminal offences committed during conversion and privatisation. So the question is then raised, in view of this, on the provision of Article 7 as it is now proposed in the proposal for a constitutional law, so that it is a law that is not directly applicable. This has significant criminal and procedural repercussions, in particular in relation to the course of limitations. If, therefore, they were to interpret this provision as being said and written, it would occur during that period until an amendment to the Penal Code was adopted, adequate to amend the Constitutional Court, it could become obsolete at that time. That's why it seems to me, and of course it would be devastating for our legal system, and ultimately for what we all voted unanimously here, so that we wouldn't be surprised that maybe some of the items were right at this time, ever since the new Constitution was passed, and until the moment when they were voted, when amendments to the Penal Code would be passed, on the trail of a constitutional court amendment so that these things could happen. I am equally attached to the opinion that has already been said here that Article 8 needs to be passed as soon as possible by a law governing the supervision of the Croatian Parliament over the work of the Government, and that deadline should be much shorter and much more precise in any case. I also bow to the opinion expressed here, so until this final one is opened, as soon as the pre-accession negotiations are completed, which means that we should soon find, we need to discuss such a bill here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59553	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59554	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs are ahead of us with a proposal for a constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We've brought constitutional changes on June 16th of this year. I would say that there is a technical law in front of us to implement what we have brought to the constitutional changes in the legislative system of the Republic of Croatia, which is our obligation by adopting constitutional changes that we have voted here in the Croatian Parliament. First of all, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a series of laws before we came here today to discuss this proposal for a final constitutional law implementing the Constitution, which sets out a series of legislative proposals concerning the conclusion of the negotiations of Chapter 23 for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. These laws have passed the first reading, as I do not know the Law on the State Attorney's Office, the Law on State Judicial Council, the Law on Elections of Representatives to the European Parliament, the Law on the Rights of Citizens of European Countries to run for the elections for local administrations and self-government, the Law on Defence and a whole series of those laws which, before it came to the procedure of this draft law, the Government sent to the Croatian Parliament where we held discussions in the first reading and where we will continue to adapt through discussions in the Croatian Parliament and the laws to constitutional changes, to the Constitution which we voted, and to the strong obligations arising from the negotiations of our negotiating mission for the accession of the Republic of Croatia. This law defines the deadlines within which these constitutional changes must be brought into line with the existing positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia that is 6 months for laws that are taxed in Article 7 concerning defences, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Criminal Law, the State Audit Office, courts, the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Office, the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the referendum, the right to access to information, education and the Civilian Ombudsman. As I said, a large series of laws have already been in the parliamentary debate, and so we have already come to this final proposal of the law, a large part of these legal regulations, in accordance with EU regulations, discussed in the Croatian Parliament, and we will do so in another reading when we will finally adopt these laws. The deadlines for the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament are set. The deadlines concerning the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia where a period of one year has been established. I believe that this final bill makes it clear that what we discussed on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that there is no reason to hold a fig in that pocket. I think this is one legal framework that we will only determine what we have already brought to the Croatian Parliament, which is therefore the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. All those laws that are currently in effect for about 6 months will be brought into line with constitutional changes. All our obligations under Chapter 23 will be completed by the deadlines so that we can sign an accession agreement so that our country becomes a full member of the EU. I don't think there should be too much spread of the story, I think it's all clear in those constitutional changes that we've brought to a large series of debates on several occasions, so those obligations arising from the EU's accession commitments to those commitments and those proposals that we've applied that came from civil society and from the individual institutions where we have perfected our Constitution and adapted it to the modern European Constitution which is our obligation here at the door of EU entry. I therefore support this final proposal of the Constitutional Law, and I believe that within the deadlines that are ahead of us, for 6 months and a year, we will bring the existing positive legal regulations into line with the obligations that our country has towards the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59555	Thank you. It's just 10.43 a.m. time for a 10-minute application. It's Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59556	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The decision to declare the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted at the meeting held on 16 June 2010, requires a comprehensive constitutional adjustment for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, as well as a change in certain existing constitutional legal provisions stemming from a series of initiatives by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, representatives, civil society associations and certain institutions. Since the application of the constitutional provisions contained in the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia requires the need to adopt new and comprehensive laws or to comply with the existing provisions of Article 30 of the Constitution, a deadline of 6 months from the date of the amendment of the Constitution within which the Croatian Parliament is to adopt the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed constitutional law provides for the direct application of certain provisions of the Constitution for which no Constitution or law is to be adopted under the Constitution. Furthermore, deadlines for the adoption of certain new laws for the harmonisation of existing ones are laid down, a specific deadline for the harmonisation of the law governing the selection of representatives in the Croatian Parliament as well as a special deadline for the harmonisation of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is also prescribed that the adoption of certain laws prior to the entry into force of the Constitutional Law does not exclude the obligation of the Croatian Parliament to comply with the relevant provisions of the Constitution in order to ensure the harmonisation of the legal system as a whole. In addition to a series of legislative proposals submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament prior to this Constitutional Law, resulting in the obligation to comply with certain negotiating chapters in the provision of Article 7, the laws which cannot be directly applied, i.e. legal areas to be harmonised within 6 months of the date of the declaration of the Constitutional Law. For this reason, given that the proposed legislation is in line with EU regulations, I support the adoption of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59557	It's time for the Honorable Representative Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59558	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, as already mentioned in the constitutional changes of June this year, Article 30 states that within 6 months of the date of its declaration, the Croatian Parliament will pass the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So, in constitutional terms, this constitutional law is before us today. It prescribes a direct amendment to certain provisions of the Constitution, as well as those provisions which cannot be applied directly, or for which it is necessary to adopt a constitutional law or law. Article 7 of this proposal lists the provisions of the Constitution that cannot be applied directly, so they will need to be regulated by the laws. These are provisions relating to the legal area of defence, Armed Forces, Criminal Law, State Audit Office, Courts, State Judicial Council, State Attorney's Council, etc. So they are all precisely listed in Article 7. Some of those areas have, meanwhile, since the declaration of constitutional changes to date been governed by certain laws or laws. So, for example, last week as the Croatian Parliament, we also passed the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. They have, for example, adopted the Law on Elections of Representatives from the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Rights of Citizens of Other Member States of the European Union in Elections for Representative Authorities of the Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Law on judicial cooperation on Criminal Matters in the Member States of the European Union and therefore a number of other laws. This Constitutional Law also lays down deadlines for the adoption of the necessary new laws, deadlines for the harmonisation of applicable laws, and sets out specific deadlines for the year preceding the regular elections for the harmonisation of laws governing the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the provisions of the article will be discussed, i.e. the provisions of Article 45 will need to be developed. The Constitution, and it refers to the vote of Croatian citizens with residence outside the Republic of Croatia and the abolition of the non-fixed quota, so as well as the deadline of one year from the date of the declaration of this Constitutional Law for the harmonisation of the Constitutional Law in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore relevant to the development of Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia relating to the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court therefore now requires a two-thirds majority of the total number of representatives in the Croatian Assembly to elect judges of the Constitutional Court. Here, in order not to owe for these reasons, I will support the adoption of this constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I, of course, also support amendments to the Legislative Committee, which, among other things, do not technically correct the legal provisions themselves and certainly contribute to their clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59559	Thank you. It's our guest, Daniel Srb. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And as the last individual reported, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59560	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. When we are on this agenda point, I think it is very important to note that amendments to the Constitution in Article 7 regulate the issue of voting by Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. living outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And it is known that this matter is arranged in a way that all these citizens will have the right to vote in a way that will vote in diplomatic and consular representations, and that they will have three representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Given the agreement reached, I think it would be time to think now about I would say improving this agreement and implementing these amendments and supplementing the Constitution in a way that the election law regulates the issue of voting by Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, in a way that regulates this issue in a number of other European countries, which means that it would be good to consider both positions and opposition, about the possibility of amending the electoral law in a way that allows people living outside the Republic of Croatia to be able to live far away and therefore I am talking about the great spreads of different countries of the world in which Croats live, to allow them to register previously for elections regardless of the elections in the Republic of Croatia, and to vote in writing. So in this case there would be no changes to the existing Constitution, the existing Constitution would be intact, therefore accepted, but through its provisions and the one which stands to exercise the right of the Croatians to vote outside the Republic of Croatia through diplomatic and consular representations would simply facilitate their approach to the vote. Therefore, nothing would change but would allow access to that right. There is no need to speak at all how many countries in the world already have this mechanism. Here are the final elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so as our neighbouring country, there is this elaborate model According to this, it is the fact that people living outside the world in this case, the Republic of Croatia, with previous registration, are allowed to do so. The reason why this should be considered, why I sincerely call on the opposition, in this case primarily the leading opposition SDP party to accept this approach in a certain way is that in the world more and more in the world of countries it accepts so-called. e-voting and different mechanisms that facilitate your citizens' access to voice. Therefore, a lettering vote in this case with previous registration would be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and would allow our people access to the polling place and the achievement of this basic human right. I pray once again, and I appeal, in fact, to think about it and to correct in this way a conditionally said flaw that will cause me not to know the large kilometre distances that people have to cross to vote. One more sentence, and let me look back because I didn't do it when my colleague Cain was speaking and I would refer to his speech here this morning, and that's when he was talking about an obsolescence of crime, etc. And it's almost a practice in our Parliament, that often crime connects with certain people. And he literally said that the generals of the war that came out, the generals of the war with millions, etc., so much is stressed crime and some people who are responsible for winning the war and for freeing Croatia. I think it is inadmissible, everyone has a name and a last name, and then they can show their name and last name and connect it to some illicit action, but it is not allowed, nor should we do so in this House, that the names of generals are associated with crime and illicit actions because it is simply, it turns out that it is one strategy that actually leads to those people who are the most responsible for the release of Croatia and all Croatian defenders being designated in a certain way, in a certain way, to be condemned in advance, etc. Let's stay away from this once and for all, and it's a harmful paradigm that keeps repeating itself in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59561	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, final explanation and consideration, the esteemed Damir Kontrec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59562	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I thank you for your discussion and your comments and your suggestions. The government will, of course, respect the deadlines that will be prescribed by this law to pass the necessary laws. I note that you passed some laws last week. From the debate, it seemed to me that the first reading of these laws was being discussed, this judicial package of laws that were practically passed almost unanimously. As for the content of the law to be passed, as State Secretary, I am not involved in predicting and cannot speak about it, but it is the Parliament that will ultimately pass those laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59563	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59564	Please, ladies and gentlemen, as we will now vote on the draft constitutional law for the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution, which was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. In 619, please re-engage to control the quorum because this law requires at least 102 votes for. Please, let's get on board and see if we have any. Please engage to control the quorum. This is where 102 registered. I reckon there's more of us. But when voting on the Law, at least 102 must be for the Constitution. It doesn't have to, but it does. So let's see how many Mr. Maric counted up. 114 counted. We can decide. Therefore, the final proposal of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 619. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the SDP Representatives' Club and the HNS-HSU Representatives' Club. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft of the law in accordance with Article. 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Tatjana Vučetic, to show itself about the amendment of the HNS-HSU Club, amendment one to the article. Six.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59565	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the government doesn't accept the amendment. The proposer considers that the provisions are an article. 2. The Constitution is sufficiently precise and clear and therefore no further explanation is required.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59566	I pray on behalf of the club Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59567	In fact, we were simply asking that given the content of the necessary amendments, but also the importance of the Constitutional Law itself, we felt that it was necessary to approach the constitutional law as soon as possible with the Constitution and instead of one year we propose a more appropriate time period of 6 months, given what we are expected to do, so I see nothing controversial in this proposal. I think he's well-intentioned, and yet you've rated him differently, so I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59568	Thank you. Who is to propose this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving on to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 7. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59569	Namely, the Government does not accept the amendment with the reason that it is an art. 2. A sufficiently regulated provision, that it is not necessary to further clarify it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59570	Thank you. On behalf of the club, here you go, Mr. Joseph Leco, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59571	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The SDP club was convinced that the Constitutional Court would make a political decision whether a referendum or not should be held to return the Croatian Assembly to its decision, and Article. The 7th proposed law cited areas which must be developed by law before the Constitution applies, including the referendum in general and in principle. The SDP Club has proposed to add such a formulation to Article 7 so that there are no disputed rulings that the State referendum is possible and necessary only on the basis of a solution that exists in the current Constitution. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59572	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. I have been informed here that two MPs do not have the means to vote technically, that is Mr. Andric and Mr. Sanader. So I ask you to make a statement specifically regarding the adoption of this constitutional law, the two of them, if there is anyone else, please plead. Thank you very much. Please include and vote on the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, at least 102 votes are required to be adopted. Here, let's get involved. Score. Do you two want to make a statement? Are you in? That means on the basis of this asset, 110 MPs voted, 2 abstentions and 2 against. Constitutional law...with the amendments adopted and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System proposed to the Croatian Assembly a decision on the declaration of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting in favour of the decision to declare the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. It's about a declaration. Score. The decision to declare the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was adopted by 109 votes to 1 abstention and 1 against. Ladies and gentlemen, we will, I will wish you a pleasant holiday, or weekend, with us meeting at 9:30 on the 27th, and the agenda will be the proposal to launch trust issues from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Jadranka Kosor and then we will continue with the interrupted agenda point that we started today. Thank you and we wish you a pleasant holiday.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59573	We're moving to agenda two. It is - The final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 615 Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Paul Matičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59574	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The matter proposed to regulate the government's powers to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section is known for the reason why the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Government's powers each year to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. The government's power to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of legislation in its regulations will cease under the current law on 7 October 2010, meaning tomorrow because it expires a period of one year when the Government of the Republic of Croatia is given the authority. On the basis of the powers conferred on the Government, it has adopted only three regulations and this Regulation amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act which is still in force, the Regulation amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act which is no longer in force and the Regulation supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials who are in force. The government proposes that it continue to be given the legal authority to adopt a regulation on the basis of legal authority, only in the period when the Croatian Parliament does not regularly meet and for the period when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded or its term of office expires. Accordingly, the Government would only have powers between 15 December 2010 and 15 January 2011 and from 15 July 2011 to 15 September 2011. Dear Vice President, the government is proposing that this law be passed as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59575	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Legislatives, president of the Committee, respected Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go. But immediately to announce, they will read the report on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So first, here is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. At the 61st session held on 5 October 2010, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the final proposal of the law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 2 September 2010. The Committee discussed the final draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Without discussion, the Committee unanimously, so 9 votes in favour, proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, as regards the report of the Committee on Legislatives. So, at the 102nd session held on 5 October 2010, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a law on the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the final proposal for a law. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not oppose the proposal to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, nor the proposal to enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal. There are no objections to the text of the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59577	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59578	Thank you very much, once again, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will show, of course, that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this bill. Of course, it should also be stressed that in the constitutional practice of all modern states, all modern parliamentary democracies, the legislative body can therefore empower the Government to adopt a general regulation or to regulate its general regulations a set of relations or issues whose adoption or regulation under the Constitution is within Parliament's jurisdiction. The legal acts adopted by the Government in these cases shall be referred to as regulations on the basis of legal authority and at least two issues shall always be raised in discussions on this subject. The first is whether or not there is a specific situation, whether there is a breach of constitutional provisions, i.e. counter-constitution in terms of the adoption of certain specific provisions. Second, whether regulations under the legal authority may amend the specific provisions of the applicable law. Our Constitution regarding the first and second situations, therefore clear, since it determines that the Croatian Parliament can, of course, empower the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a deadline of one year, to regulate certain issues from its part-round except for questions which are explicitly, taxively, specified precisely in the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. They do not, therefore, need to be read specifically. On the basis of the legal authority, the Regulations cannot act backwards and the constitutional provision shall cease to apply within a period of one year from the date of the given power. But I still think it's very important to stress unless the Parliament decides otherwise. On the other hand, the fact that regulations or regulations only allow certain areas of life to be regulated in exceptional situations and constitutional deadlines. So logically, there is also such a situation as to regulate regulations in a different way than it was governed by the applicable laws. So we have a situation that the government regulates relations that are already governed by the law. There is also an urgent need to derogate certain legal provisions, I repeat in this regard. But, otherwise, neither in formal nor in a constant sense, regulation would have any purpose. There is always another question here, and this is a question of abuse or the possibility of abuse of constitutional powers, or whether they were in a particular situation, whether they occurred. Of course not. Of course not, for the government at a time when the Parliament is not in session and only in three situations and all three of these situations are listed. Therefore, a specific regulation. The regulations are three of which one is no longer even in force. Therefore, in this case, it intervened by means of a regulation, and for justifiable reasons and reasoned reasons, so that the objections which could go in terms of violating these constitutional principles or provisions on the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament in relation to the Government or the constitutional and legal positions of the Croatian Parliament do not stand and cannot be accepted as such from the position of interpretation of the Constitution and the law. In view of the fact that only three situations have led to such interventions, given the fact that one regulation is also out of force. Therefore, there are only two remaining and, given the all-exposed Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59579	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59580	Dear Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is a law that is actually almost identical to what we saw last year, i.e. this is the law that the government proposes every year at the beginning of our autumn session using its constitutional powers. And indeed, if we compare the text of this law to the law we had on the table a year ago, it's clear that he hasn't changed in a single word except in dates. So it's a routine thing to say, I would like to say, in a very specific way, that the government has been reporting on how it has used its constitutional authority, that is to say, to extend that authority in this House of Commons for the following year. We at the Croatian People's Party club, we hold that there is indeed a case here from which the government does not abuse its constitutional authority. But it's not just the abuse category that matters. Here is a category, i.e. a process that proves the government's credibility, unlike in 2008, when the government was significantly compromised if you remember because it passed that famous regulation over the summer while the ministers were on yachts, including the former prime minister's telephone on working time trade. That didn't happen in 2009. The government was obviously more cautious, smarter and more responsible, and these three actually areas in which it intervened certainly deserved the use of this constitutional opportunity. But some questions are also asked. First of all, the regulation amending the Health Protection Act is completely undeniable because the law has been amended in the meantime and all the elements of this Regulation have been incorporated into the new legal text. However, there are two other regulations. One is the addition of the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, which was obviously embossed with the recessional state or anti-recession measures. Unfortunately, we have not received this bill as well as a report, i.e. an explanation of why these regulations were adopted, and then it opens up a space of speculation. In the event that this Regulation has already been repealed, Article 5 which defines the percentages of the so-called ‘. a special addendum to the salaries of judicial officials and if this is a situation which is valid by the end of this year, and the Government does not say what it means by this issue, then we ask the answer to this question to see whether the recession is slowly calming down and whether the Government plans to give up such a way of regulating the rights of judges established, or judicial officials as set out in Article 4. The law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials or, in fact, will extend the value of this Regulation, and then the judicial officials and judges will not have the right in 2011 to this supplement in a certain percentage, which is therefore regulated by that Article 5. It would be good to know what the government wants and what the government is planning, because the end of the year is not far. We're in October, end of the year in two months. Furthermore, as regards the Regulation amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, these are really serious amendments to the law, as they concern a whole set of issues that regulate non-residents' right to loans and also the use of, or handling of, money, cheques and the export of money from the Republic of Croatia. If what is regulated by the regulation, what the Government keeps important, then the question is why is it that the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, did not propose, but to amend and supplement the Foreign Trade Act, which would make this a permanent state, or permanent solution. If there is no reason for this to be a permanent solution and a permanent state, and the regulation is still in effect, then we want to hear again what the government's plan is about, why and why, for what reason such measures have been adopted in this Regulation, whether they are planned for 2011, whether the Ministry of Finance has agreed with the Croatian National Bank in this respect a more permanent strategy, or whether it is just a temporary measure to give up. It doesn't matter, because the owners of non-resident accounts are mostly foreign legal entities, they're both embassies and a whole bunch of others. In any event, this Regulation also includes one solution defining the situation until Croatia enters the European Union, as the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union practically abolishes Article 47(4). Foreign exchange law. So, generally taking and speaking in principle, the government has not misused its powers, it is not about changes that have significantly disrupted the credibility of the government, but it is about at least two out of three cases of solutions that can be of permanent character, so it is a question of why the Government is not going on a proposal to amend and supplement certain laws, because it is not a matter that needs to be regulated by regulations for a long time, and there is no need for that. This is particularly true of these changes in the Foreign Exchange Act, and therefore we ask that, in this respect, a representative of the proposings is shown in the course of the debate. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party therefore accepts the Government's proposal to extend constitutional authority by special law for another year, because we hold that the practice so far has been positive since, or practice in 2009, and does not require important criticism from the parliamentary clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59581	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59582	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this bill of law always or almost the same story. Our main problem is that the key things that are already planned to be done behind that public eye behind the Parliament itself, for certain periods, I don't think they are necessary. Especially in this time when we are opening up, when the government's behaviour is in the public eye, and that, as with the proposal, the final proposal of the law, the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section should indeed be taken to the least possible extent. I think that a government that really wants to show people that it's open, that it's transparent, that its actions are open to the public, there's no such direct need for regulation. I just wanted to, in fact, just not to mention the individual and the examples, to point out that in the current political situation that we are in, and if the government really wants to be the one that does what it says, then there is no room for such proposals, or individual solutions, from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59583	Thank you. It's our guest, Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59584	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law for a certain period of time empowers the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of the current economic policy in the part of the Croatian Parliament, with the exception of changes in the state budget and tax regulation, to those issues which can only be regulated by the Croatian Parliament under the Constitution of the Constitution of human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, establishment, delineation and method of operation of state bodies and local self-government, at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet in the period 15 December 2010 to 15 January 2011, and from 15 July 2011 to 15 September 2011, and, exceptionally, from the date of disbanding or the end of the term of office of the Croatian Parliament, until the date of the first meeting of the newly elected Croatian Parliament. The proposed law also provides for an extension of their validity, but no longer than 31 December 2010, in order to allow time-limits for issues governed by the regulations to be governed by the applicable law. For this reason, and given that the proposed law prevents the creation of a legal void and allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt regulations on the basis of legal powers, I support the adoption of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59585	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable Representative Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59586	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, this constitutional legal institute of the legislative delegation in our practice is present as we have heard for many years. The power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament is therefore based on Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes that the Croatian Parliament may, for the most part, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for a period of time from one year, to regulate certain issues in its work, other than those relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, establishment, detour and method of operation of state bodies and local self-government. The Constitution also stipulates that such regulations cannot, on the basis of legal authority, act backwards and that they shall cease to apply after the expiry of the period of one year from the date of the power granted, unless the Croatian Parliament decides otherwise. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in This law exempts the Government's powers and questions of amending the State budget and tax regulation. Just as said, the Government will have this power in a period of time, so at a time when the Croatian Parliament will comply with Article 78. The constitution doesn't ambush. It should be said that in the past year the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not often applied the law under this law. Only 3 regulations have been adopted, of which 2 are still in force, and these regulations are proposed to remain in force and for a maximum period of 31 December 2010. Here, for these reasons, as well as for the reason why the deadline of one year has expired tomorrow since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been given the power to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section by means of an urgent procedure in its legislative delegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59587	Thank you. And distinguished representative Nenad Stazic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a matter of principle. In Croatia, there is, of course, a constitutionally regulated tridivision of the authorities. The laws are passed by the Croatian Parliament, the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament by the Government. Of course, this institute, which allows the government to lay down regulations with legal force, means that it changes laws, is justified. He is justified because sometimes there is a need for the government to act, to change some legal text even when the Assembly is not in session and when it cannot go before the Croatian Parliament to ask for a certain amendment to the law. However, it is not good for the Government to use its power delegated to it in a way that changes in the legal texts do not bring it before the Parliament. This Regulation was adopted on 17 December 2009, the second of which was adopted on 23 December 2009. Well, the government had plenty of time to go before the Parliament with legal proposals. So, to allow the trio of the authority that is written in the Constitution to function. You know when the Government adopts a regulation then the Croatian Parliament does not have the opportunity to discuss this amendment to the law. We don't have the opportunity to see positive and negative sides of such a change of law. I'm interested in justifying why the government is not, for example, an example. in amending the Foreign Exchange Act, and it amended it by regulation on 17 December 2009, so it had plenty of time, so why didn't it go before this Croatian Parliament, it does, it changes six articles of that law, so let's discuss it here. We will now if this vote is extended to the new year, until December 31st. It's another time when Parliament doesn't sit. The government can again adopt new 2 regulations on these same legal proposals and re-use this power for the next year and do not amend the law. That's not good practice. Not that it's not good, it's a very bad practice. And the government has a chance to behave like that. I therefore think that for pedagogical reasons, it would be good to reject this bill. And force the government to treat the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Constitution with a little more respect. To respect the trio of the authorities, to be used by this institute when necessary, but to take advantage of the first chance to come before the Parliament with an amendment to the law, a proposal to amend the law. Because there's no excuse that the government doesn't do it except lazy. Only that the ministers were lazy so this was all, this regulation was difficult to translate into a bill and send to the Croatian Parliament. Or the government is afraid to discuss such amended legal texts in the Croatian Parliament. Maybe she's afraid that she wouldn't get over it in Parliament. But in any case, it's not smart, it's not good, it's not democratic that the institution that the Parliament gave to the government, so that tool in good faith won't be used this way. So if we once refused to extend the regulations to any government, then it wouldn't be the last day before the expiry of that power we gave her, not to come with a bill to give her another year, so we're going to give her a year again, why don't we give her? But to extend the specific regulations is no longer good. This is what it states in Article 4 of this proposed law, that the regulations adopted by the Government under the law of power to regulate certain issues which are valid on the date of entry into force of this law will remain in force. If we were to reject that possibility once to any government, then any government would behave more responsibly, then it would come to the House with amendments to the law, then we would have a chance to discuss it here. Not only that among us in the Parliament, but in front of the entire public, and then it would be one responsible political behavior. I remind you that one of those regulations is about wages, so it's not a little bit of a right. You know, that's where the salaries to the judicial officials are denied, those salaries are cut, so I guess it's for a debate in the Parliament. If there's any question for discussion in the Parliament, then that's the question. Therefore, here is my discussion of the government's appeal for more responsible and appeal to fellow Members of the Parliament in the future to reject this bill for pedagogical reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59589	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59590	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct my fellow MPs when he said we don't have the opportunity to discuss the specific text of these regulations. That's not true. Because other than this law, the obligation is also fulfilled every year, so when we get reports on these regulations on the benches, then we have the right and the ability to discuss the essence of these regulations. Therefore, the debate was not disabled by these legal proposals in this regard. There is an obligation to substrate the report to the Croatian Parliament on every regulation that has been and is in force, so that the Croatian Parliament has the opportunity not only to discuss but to decide these issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59591	Thank you. We have one replica, Honorable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59592	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazić, I absolutely agree with your debate that it is enough even too much time to look at when certain acts are being adopted, so I would say we have seen an example of a referendum calling that in two, three days it is possible to withdraw a certain legislative proposal or propose it at a session of the Assembly, that in three months we are giving a period of three months of regulations that have been in force for a certain period of time and that could be discussed in some way and legalised in the Assembly. What concerns me is not even disputed that the Government has a right and should have in these months when the Assembly does not meet certain rights to adopt certain regulations, I am concerned that this law states and apostrophe of the most ongoing economic policies, as if we have time and that the period from 15 December to 15 January will be crucial. Instead of working with a full pair and proposing laws in the Parliament, we try to get the country out of the economic crisis, we now propose a law that gives Malta no right to the Government to autonomously adopt certain regulations from the detours that fall under the Parliament, which is related to the economy. And in some ways such a proposal does not give confidence to Croatian citizens that they are working on an up-to-date basis to get Croatia out of the crisis. And it's normal that I can't accept it as an agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59593	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the final word is the esteemed State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, Paval Maticic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59594	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the debate and confirm that the Government did not abuse its authority and secondly that the Government did not often use its authority given by this law, only when it was necessary for the Government to regularly submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the regulations adopted under the legislative delegation. I'd like to answer the question asked about the pay issue. I would remind only briefly that we in the Republic of Croatia now have more laws to regulate the system of pay. The system pays in the civil service, the system pays in local and regional self-government, the system pays in public services, the system pays in the judiciary and a whole series of other laws governing the system of pay. And it is normal when wage policy is established after the adoption of the Republic of Croatia's budget to then go so that the system is paid equalises in all sectors that are potentially different from the established wage policy. With regard to such a situation, the Government has now taken a position to approach the creation of a single Law on the Public Administration Payments System, which would include both state and local and judiciary and the other to try to produce with social partners a law that would uniquely edit that wage system. So if we had such a law, then there would be no need to intervene with regulations that change in order for individual sectors to eventually be arranged differently than they are. So we expect that by the end of this year, at least in our first reading, we will propose a Law on Public Administration Payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59595	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this bill today at 1:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59596	Please engage to see if there's a quorum. The result, let's see. 87. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament, P.Z. No. 615, emergency procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 72 votes, nothing abstentions and 26 against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59597	Moving to point 3. - Proposal for a State Property Management Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 597 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? As far as I can see. Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59598	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs, honored days and gentlemen. The proposal for a State Property Management Act proposes to create basic assumptions for the determination of scope and the principle of governance of state assets that arises in the form of state ownership in commercial societies, as well as in the form of state-owned properties. The objectives of this bill are to establish an appropriate legal institutional and supervisory framework, effectively and responsibly manage state assets, fully and properly record state assets and to demonstrate and effectively manage state assets. The important objective is also to create assumptions for the achievement of investment projects and to attract new investments to economic development and new revenues from the state budget. In fact, it is the state property in the form of equity shares, and in particular real estate can and must be the basis for new investments that will result in economic development and new employment. State property can be seen in a broader and narrow sense, and in the presentation of this bill we will be limited to state property in the form of equity shares in companies and in the form of real estate. Today this state property appears as property of the Republic of Croatia, as well as numerous state institutions and entities, which are ministries, Croatian Privatisation Fund, Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation Agency, State Agency for Insurance of Harmful Roles and Rehabilitation of Banks, Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, as well as their indirect institutions such as the Capital Fund owned by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. On the other hand, from the aspect of the management of this state property, today's system established the responsibility of state property management other than the Government of Croatia itself and the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, the Fund for the Compensation of Assets, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Croatian Employment and the Croatian Pension Investment Society, as well as the Croatian Forests, Croatian Waters and as regards Agricultural Land owned by the Republic of Croatia to units of local regional self-government. This difference in management and ownership modes not only affects the inability of the full and correct records of state assets but also the inefficientness and complexity of the management of these assets, so as to rarely intertwine jurisdiction, especially between the Central State Office for the Management of State Property and the Croatian Privatisation Fund. This draft law covers assets owned by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, property owned by the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks that stemmed from the process of resuscitation of banks and property of the Republic of Croatia other than forests and forest land whose management is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Forests, agricultural land whose management is in the jurisdiction of the units of local regional self-government and of water and water goods whose management is in the jurisdiction of Croatian waters, as defined by specific regulations. However, regardless of the holder of ownership rights over the property as well as who manages it, this state property represents the property of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and makes a significant resource of the state, and it is necessary to create assumptions for effective management of such assets, aimed at fulfilling the public authority's obligations to provide services to its citizens and economic development of the state. This proposal for a law on state property management defines the principles in the management of state assets, which are the principle of public governance of state assets, the principle of predictability of state property management in order to know that the state will act in the management of state assets, the principle of efficiency of state property management and the principle of responsibility in the management of state assets. The draft law defines three key acts in the management of state property and this: firstly, the State Property Management Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament for a period of three years as a strategic act on state property. Secondly, the Annual Management Plan for State Assets brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the Strategy and this is the Operational Annual Management Plan for State Property. Third, the governance code adopted by the State Property Management Agency. The draft law provides for the establishment of a state property management agency to unite the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Central State Office for the Management of State Property and the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, except for part of the business involved in encouraging housing. The Agency will be responsible for the management of state assets, the availability and acquisition of ownership shares, the availability and acquisition of real estate, the management of the ownership stakes of state bodies, institutions, institutions and public undertakings on the basis of a contract on the management, establishment, management and establishment of a register of state property, the identification of unevaluationd assets in the process of converting and privatising social enterprises and the registration of the rights of ownership of the Agency on that property. The Agency will manage the property of the Republic of Croatia as a legal representative, its own property and property of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the estate of the Daba that emerged from the recovery of banks and property of other state-owned owners under the asset management contract, and will be financed from the availability of assets owned by the Agency while all other revenues from the Agency will be revenues from the state budget. The Agency will have a board of nine members elected by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and three members who will appoint an administrative council on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Agency will manage the ownership stakes in accordance with the State Property Management Strategy and on the basis of the Annual Management Plan of State Property, and the draft law also lays down the power to adopt decisions on state property management. The proposal for a law lays down state property management models for a better, more transparent and more efficient management of state assets and puts state assets in the role of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia, with maximum respect for the principle of transparency and the public of the Agency's work. The proposed law creates assumptions that a list of the entire state property in the form of real estate and equity stakes in companies is finally recorded, provides for the establishment and keeping of a central register of state property that would be divided into a register of real estate and a register of commercial companies, and would be kept by the Agency and made publicly available to Croatian citizens. That Register of State Assets would be linked to the court register, the register of the Central Clinical Depositary Agency and the garnery, and would bring transparency in the management of state assets. The other provisions of the bill refer to the necessary part of the provisions of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises and the Law on Privatisation so as to enable it to cease in full, and to the issue of a solution on Real Estates, to assign shares to the wartime invalids of the Homeland War, as well as to families of the dead Croatian defenders in the Homeland War, and to the unrated assets in the process of conversion and privatisation, and to the second reading, the head of the law relating to unassembled property in the process of conversion, Articles 44 to 47, in order not to comply with the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, which is not evaluated in the process of conversion and privatisation. The establishment of the Agency through this draft law would introduce written business procedures for the availability of state-owned assets, as well as measurement of the effects of costs and professional management of state-owned assets. The establishment of the Agency would allow efficient and rapid decision-making to be taken on state property management through the evaluation of benefits and costs, correctly setting up an information system and supervision of business, control and measurement of success and transparent business. It is important to stress that the adoption of this Act as well as the establishment of the Agency is included in the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in May 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59599	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Emil Tomljanovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59600	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 100th session held on 21 September 2010, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a law on the management of state property submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 23 July 2010. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law, and the text of the proposal makes a principle note that all entities which have managed it in a certain way, i.e. had a share in the management of state property and the regulations that regulated it, should be completed in order to determine the text of the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59601	Thank you. The Economic Committee? No, I don't. The Justice Committee? No, I don't. The other committees? The judiciary, yes, the chairman of the board, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Justice discussed the proposal for this law on state property management as an interested body. The members of the board unanimously supported the bill, stressing the importance of uniting state-owned entities and creating a one-stop shop. The proposal of the State Property Management Act highlights the following comments, proposals and opinions. In Article 2(3), the concept of real estate is proposed to be completed in order to comply with the Property Act and other real rights. It is proposed that all assets of legal persons that are removed from this law and which are incorporated into the Agency become property of the Republic of Croatia as well as any other property that the Agency would acquire in its business. It is proposed to delete the words in Article 18(2): "unless rehabilitation has taken place under a special law" as unnecessary because, if a person has been rehabilitated, an ex-legislator is considered unpunished. It is proposed to amend Article 30 of the proposal in a way to delete the words "the Agency is working with the Government of the Republic of Croatia" because the Agency for its work corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so it seems inappropriate to co-operate with the Government. It is also proposed to amend paragraphs 5 and 6 in Article 39 in a way that precisely regulates the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia when it is available without compensation and authorisation to make such decisions. It is proposed to amend Article 40(3) in a way that the Agency is authorised to make an assessment of the value of the property and where the expected value of the property is greater than 5 million kunas if the Agency has professional people to carry out the evaluations in order not to depend on very different assessments of the judicial witches. The opinion is also to regulate the process of repeating public competition, and the criteria for possible sales below the estimated value unless they are achieved on the market. The provisions of Article 42 should also be reviewed and laid down by the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction so as not to be contrary, given that the draft law regulates the position of the State as owner in an unequal manner to other property owners in this spatial planning procedure. It is also proposed that at least in principle and fundamentally regulate the content of the register of state property as a public register. The proposal should regulate sanctions for non-compliance with the obligations laid down in Article 44(b) and (c) of the Agency to find assets that have not entered the underlying capital because the entities themselves will not do so. And it is proposed to delete the provision of Article 46 as unnecessary if a suggestion is accepted that the holder of ownership of all assets of the predecessor, legal predecessors and those acquired by the Agency be the Republic of Croatia. And it is also proposed to harmonise the bill's proposal with provisions in the meantime passed by the Tourism Land Act. And at the end of the debate, the Committee on Justice voted with 8 votes, so unanimously decided to adopt the proposal for a law on state property management. Any comments, suggestions and opinions shall be made in the debate to be given to the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59603	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction? No, I don't. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? No, I don't. The War Veterans Committee? No, I don't. And the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up first. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Retirement Party support the government's quest to finally move forward with the management of state property according to the principles of a good master. How and how this property has been managed so far, I think it is unnecessary to speak, but certainly what is the common denominator of all these times so far, which is that it has not been governed by the principles of a good master. It's good that this bill goes into regular procedure, so in two readings it's perfectly safe. According to the reports, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the board, these reports say that this legal text should be completed in many elements. This legislative proposal proposes the merger of the Croatian Privatisation Fund of the Central State Office for State Property Management and the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. When we talk about the need to merge the Croatian Privatisation Fund of the Central State Office for State Property Management, it certainly has logic, it certainly has needs, it certainly has, that thinking is in the right direction, but the question is whether, why and whether it should, which is why the newly formed agency includes this, includes the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. Something that is not visible from this legislative proposal, it does not say anywhere, that part of the existing Agency for Legal Traffic of Real estate is being attached to the new agency, and part of it is going to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. This is not written in the legislative proposal anywhere, but it says in the proposal of the Ministry of Administration to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of which the Government proposed, when it was 23.7., it decided to go into the formation of this new agency, and to make all those other decisions on the abolition of these other agencies that we will discuss, which are on the agenda and which, unlike this proposal, go according to the emergency procedure, so it is good that this part goes into regular procedure, first and second reading. Namely, the rather hazy merger of the Agency for Legal Traffic of Real estate, the real estate transfer with this new agency, speaks from this very legislative proposal, basic issues that need to be regulated by law, and after which the adoption of this law will take place, here is page 2 of this law, proposing the establishment of a State Property Management Agency, which would replace two institutions that manage most of the state assets of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Central State Office for State Property Management. There's no APN anywhere. The APN appears, the Agency for Legal Traffic of Property appears in Article 1 of Article 52 and Article 56, and therefore we at the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party argue that it is quite hazy to attach the APN to the new agency and our proposal to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make the Agency's accession in the legal proposal more quality, with more arguments, more transparent arguments, because we believe that this way definitely the Government of the Republic of Croatia is shutting down a very good project, a project that has been functioning for 13 years now, I'm talking about encouraging housing. Because if, according to this proposal from the Ministry of Administration that was in the government, which says that, that the new body, the agency, will take over jobs... the rights and obligations of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which is also in this legislative proposal, of the Central State Office for the Management of State Property in this legislative proposal and of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, and of the financial means necessary to carry out the transactions undertaken, other than part of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation relating to encouraging housing. [[You don't understand.]] In other words, encouraging housing goes to the ministry. As this agency in the VAT system passes the encouraging housing into the ministry, the entire system is gathering by 23%. In other words, we kill the possibility of any encouraging housing, we close. Is that the goal? I will not mention that in the Agency for Legal Traffic of Real Estates, which, I repeat, has worked for 13 years, that more than 5 thousand apartments have been built, that for many particularly those with developmental difficulties exactly the incentive of housing to open a new chance, a new possibility for young families, for young families, but the fact is that in the last few years the whole system has been slowing down. At this point the agency, APN for construction according to the model of encouraging housing has 100 million kuna capital obtained through VAT returns. Right now. If it goes to the ministry, the potential of that 100 million is lost. We also recently discussed the Law on Incentives of Sales of Apartments, where we at the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired had an entirely more life-saving, I will call it a more life-saving proposal, and unfortunately we were right to say the fact that at this point from the planned thousands of apartments, by this model sold only 50. All 50. And with a series of arguments all these years, and finally with this establishment of the Ministry of Administration which was at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is not in this legislative proposal, which says that the Agency, that there is a Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estate Intermediation going to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, in other words let's tell the people, dear gentlemen, by the model of encouraging housing no more apartment building, no more selling apartments. Because the very fact of the inability to use the potential of VAT returns tells us that the whole story is being accumulated. Therefore, at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, we propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate leave out the merger of institutions in order to establish a new Agency for the Management of State Property, according to this proposal of the Law, that it is useful to leave the Agency for Legal Transport of Real Estates to continue as so far as it is a separate institution which is responsible and in charge of specific laws and other regulations is controlled by the Government by the more that the APN Administrative Council is made up of Ministers of Government of the Republic of Croatia. It would be possible to single out only some part of the APN that deals exclusively, and the question is, if at all, direct management of state assets. For example. renting state-owned apartments or handing over these state-owned properties to a new agency, but that the incentive housing system remains as it has functioned for 13 years. Simply following the logic of things, following the experience of something that has been created for 13 years and giving results to us at the HNS-HSU club, it just doesn't seem to us, it's difficult for us to accept the position of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction at the meeting of the Government that it has accepted the removal of the model of encouraging housing. Because, I repeat, by disbanded this agency or by joining a part of the agency into a new agency, and the model of encouraging housing is joining the ministry we are shutting down that model. We therefore propose that in the second reading in addition to these basic elemental things that the legal proposal must have, which we have heard from the committee rapporteur before this debate, we at the HNS-HSU club invite the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare for the second reading one system law, a law that will enable good, quality and attention to good master management of state property, but that one model that has outlived several ministers, one model that has been shown to be effective in practice, a model that enables young families in particular, especially those who are just entering into the possibility of first insurance of their living space, a model that definitely revives the economic activity to leave it still as a private agency, or that this part is included in the newly formed agency, but key and important that the model is consistent with all of those legal regulations that we have brought into the Croatian Assembly and, I repeat, that we remove something for which we have a complete infrastructure and that we enter into the unknown model in any way. I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its second reading in the final draft of a law with far more responsibility for this model, far more responsibility to the new possibilities that it will accept our suggestion and that the system that works well will not shut down because of some other goals, and we simply do not want us in the HNSU club to believe that it was a motive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59605	Thank you very much. It is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Mr. Secretary of State, will support the proposal of the Law on State Property Management, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent to the Croatian Parliament in regular procedure, so first reading. What I want to point out at first is that the proposal for this law and the very proposal for a law are in the function of implementing economic recovery measures that are envisaged by the programme itself, but also the adopted proposal for the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal entities with public powers. Therefore, only the proposed law is on the trail of the realisation of the economic recovery programme on the one hand, but on the other hand, and of the rationalisation of the reorganisation of institutions, agencies, institutions that exist today and exist in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, it is necessary to say that the state property represents the property of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and hence clearly results in the responsibility of the executive authority and the legislative authority to regulate in the most qualitative way the management of the property itself so that it is clearly in the function of creating a new value, primarily for the Republic of Croatia, but also clearly for the citizens who are ultimately and owner of the property. Therefore, the reform of state property management, which this law provides, is one of the very important public administration reforms and, on this note, we at the HDZ Club are watching the adoption of a proposal for this law. However, no less important than the adoption of such a bill, we would like to point out that it is also important, almost as a previous question, to enroll the Republic of Croatia over the entire property which is state property in the Republic of Croatia and to enroll such property in the land book because without it, this law, or its implementation, will continue for a long time if it does not approach the systematic registration of state property as the holder of ownership in the land book on the Republic of Croatia, will continue to burden the work and this agency will be the result of the adoption of this law. There are many reasons that impose the need to pass this law. Therefore, by looking at how and how the management of state property in the Republic of Croatia works to this day, it can be clearly read that it is necessary to adopt such a law that, in one place, as much as possible, unites property which would then be managed by one agency. As a prerequisite for the establishment of the part-time work of the Agency itself, the principles which the Agency should guide in its business and management of state property, which is what the Secretary of State mentioned in its introduction, namely the principle of predictability, the principle of effectiveness and the principle of responsibility, and clearly that the Agency would indeed be responsible for taking care of the entire state property. At this point, the entire state property is managed by several agencies, several institutions and funds, and thus clearly there is no quality management of state property. Therefore, neither is the transparent management of state assets nor is it even. Because as I said earlier, several state bodies are taking care of state property. Also at this point, there is no strategy for managing state property, which is what this law provides and what we consider to be very important. We are also witnessing that a large part of state property is usurped by different natural or legal persons. And that property record, which is not included in the land book, which is not managed by any of the state institutions, is certainly the reason for the adoption of this law. We are also witnessing that there are many disputes between the units of local self-government and the Republic of Croatia in part of the land which are not isolated from the forest economic base and for which many units of local self-government today require the registration of ownership rights, which is clear to the State Attorney's Office and the Republic of Croatia, since at the time when certain spatial plans have been adopted, this land was a forest economic base and it is clear that it is necessary to regulate both this relationship and probably through the adoption of this law we need to take note of it. The first initiative on the adoption of this law was adopted by the government in January of this year when the government decided on the establishment of a State Property Management Agency in order to allow, first and foremost, the management of state property, in order to speed up the registration of ownership over state property, to establish both a more efficient and simpler model of state property management and to determine what I initially said to be the model for the strength of management and organisation of the entire state property. The adoption of this law is the establishment of an agency that would now unite those institutions such as the Central State Property Management Office, such as the Croatian Privatisation Fund and in that part clearly and ceases to function and the Croatian Privatisation Fund as well as the Central State Office. Also, according to the proposed... property owned by the Croatian Privatisation Fund as well as DAB's assets stemming from the process of rehabilitating and privatising banks would become the property of the agency, while for the property owned by the Republic of Croatia the agency would become a legal representative, and for the property of other state institutions such as the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, such as the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the agency would sign a contract on the management of the property. What is very important and what we at the HDZ Club support is that this law introduces the obligation to create a strategy that would be adopted by the Croatian Parliament. When we talk about the strategy, we estimate that the time-limit within which this strategy should be implemented from three years is inappropriate and that the strategy on governance of state property should be longer than three years, so when it should mean more long-term projects, that it should adopt guidelines and programmes that have been implemented over a period of three years, not just three years as this law provides. It is also necessary to consider, by next reading, the justification for the adoption of a one-year management plan for state assets. In our opinion, we should also consider that this governance plan of state property that would be linked to this strategy is also being adopted on a longer term. We also consider that it is necessary to enable the Agency to manage more systematically and in the way companies are taken over, as this law also provides, as it leaves the possibility of recapitalising companies and reporting to the agency for the takeover of companies. What we also consider is that until the second reading should be considered, which is to bring the provisions of this law into line with the Law on Tourist Land and the rest of the building land under assessment in the process of conversion and privatisation, because it regulates property-legal relations on that land and the way it is used, which is not decided and established and settled by law itself. It should also be up to the next law by us at the HDZ Club against other state assets such as property represented by agricultural land and forest land, to define in that part the relationship between the State Property Management Agency and that part of the land. It is further necessary to determine through this law against non-legislative property, which is considered unspective of military property because we believe that through this law it is necessary to regulate the entire property which is not assessed as perspective by the Ministry of Defence. It is also necessary to define the relationship between this law and the Business Planning Act by the second reading, as the law establishes the obligation of units of local self-government to participate actively and jointly in the process of spatial planning, which at this time does not comply with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Furthermore, what Mr. Koračević spoke about the Real estate agency earlier, the law itself did not fully define relations with the agency itself, and what jobs would be taken over by this agency and which jobs would continue to be carried out by the Ministry of Spatial Planning. Well, it is clear, then, that part should also be manifested until the second reading. What we certainly support in the HDZ Club is that this law systematically addresses the issue of total state property. It is necessary that the work that is being done today in several state institutions be united in one place, it is necessary to form a register and it is a very quality provision of this law, so to form the register. However, the content of the register itself is not defined by the deadlines in which the register will be formed. So from all this, we at the HDZ Club support this bill. Until the next reading, we need to consider all these suggestions that I said earlier. And clearly we expect the bill to be passed on that trail, which will be in the final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59607	Thank you very much. We'll go further with the club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, distinguished colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59608	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. First, it's good that this law goes into second reading, absolutely. Why, because we are creating one of the most powerful bodies in the Republic of Croatia, which will manage state property among others, have the capacity to acquire ownership shares, dispose and acquire real estate, deal with the management of ownership shares of state bodies, institutions, institutions, institutions, participates in proposing changes and additions of spatial planning documents, establish management and establishment of a register of state property, assigns shares, without compensation to wartime wartime persons of the Homeland War, issue solutions on real estate, identify unrated assets in the process of conversion and privatisation etc., etc. We have in some way today, I dare say, two related laws. One is this, the Law on State Property Management and, to a large extent, when I say related, I think that law on the promotion of exports or investments. However, regardless of this law and existing laws, we are in some situation that there are no investments at this time, there are no investments, unfortunately there are no new jobs, no economic growth, one word none of which is happening in this country. The question now, normally, is who will have the power to concentrate the Law on State Property Management in one place. What are we actually going to achieve by this law, what are we going to change? So far, you can say freely in the last 10 years, each investor is almost driven away because of an anti-enterprise climate in a country where they were all against everything. That's how we drove nearly 5 billion investments. In this way, we lost 100,000 jobs, thus only on VAT basis did this country not receive at least 1 billion euros, based on taxes, contributions etc. the additional billions of euros, and we are left alone without new branches, etc. Now that we are aware that only in the period from 1.7.2009 to 1.7.2010 we have lost almost 90,000 jobs, now we would like to invest, to invest, to be built in this country, but while in Washington Post they go to the first page of the inscription "Croatian Country of the Mafia" hardly any relevant capital will come here. And unfortunately, the same thing is gentlemen even in Istria where we have also driven at least 1 billion euros of investment from those 5 billion. Everything was always welcomed on the knife, but perhaps something was happening down there, something was building up. A little, but still, this economic base is preserved from Ulanik to tourism, from the export economy to some small economy, although I am afraid if something changes that the time ahead will be simply a hellish period. All unfortunately politicized, all 101% is simply politicized, from Barbariga further, although I claim they bought a cat in a bag there because of 76 hectares later, 50% of that property was converted into archaeological land where there is absolutely no construction, etc. There's no Mr. Kulusic who threw it at me this morning, he wouldn't have said that if he hadn't provoked it before. On the other hand, what we also know, the counties at this time do not have a single centimeter of any forest, whether agricultural, or construction, or tourist land. If anyone has, they have cities and clearly, state. The state, understandably, has large systems above all. I mean here on HEP, Croatian railways, Croatian forests, with millions of hectares of the most attractive land whether it's the sea, whether it's agricultural, forest. I read yesterday or the day before yesterday, I can't believe that Croatian forests are being damaged at an annual level by 1 billion kuna and about 500 million are being found. Now, what the state is doing, and it bothers me that even some of the president's advisors and even the IDS. They say tycoons should not be charged for this tourist land. I'm glad that this law deals with a lot of things that camp just doesn't pay, and that little caterer, it doesn't matter if it's Pula or Poreč, Dubrovnik or Split, when there's one stand or it doesn't matter, the table in Dekuman or the Forum or on the waterfront in Split or on Stradun, there's got to pay every one centimetre, and those who get from the state don't need that one system just, neatly, to pay no one a single kuna. That's not how it's gonna work, and it needs to change normally. Now I don't mind, or I wouldn't mind, that if a Croatian citizen or the world, however, wanted to invest in Croatia some money in the construction of a business facility, it doesn't matter whether a hotel, a factory, so that the state clearly didn't do anything, but under the concession for 1 kuna per year or not, with one symbolic fee, he would give up land where he could simply build through that form by hiring people who would pay for the state contributions, who would secure their jobs and who would, and who would normally do so through VAT would also fill the state register. What is the point, however, I would dare say, at this current moment in the Republic of Croatia, that everyone is in some way, so I dare say frightened. First in the state administration for these arrests, not that they're scared, but nobody just does anything, it doesn't work. Other in government than doing bad O.K. Now that the prime minister from New York has told them that half of them should be replaced, they're doing nothing again. Now they're fighting. In local self-government, I return to the first difficult thing to do if they do not get a positive opinion from the State's Attorney's Office. And we come up with a situation that simply everything, our whole life in this country, we've been blocked. And with what little free resources we have at our disposal, which we could run simply no one dares to do anything about it because he doesn't know what will happen to him the next day or especially after the change of government in this country. Also, I'm looking at this asset management agency. Well, it really needs to be disbanded as soon as possible because it also stops life in this country. For example, in one Buzet, come on, we've now solved about four, five acres for the future brewery. But before that, four, five years ago, we've been solving several hundred squares, some stream so that gentlemen can build a bus station or what I know to build a collector. So don't just do it. Let's not block it that way, stall all these contents that can be used. Especially now, let us not, for example, stop investment in the Istrian ipilon because it is the only real thing that can happen in the year ahead. We will open 70 next year, perhaps 80 km of highways outside Istria in other parts of Croatia. I'm afraid due to the dubiosis in the Croatian highways will not be able to open 15km of new highways. And that road is built by concession and is not burdened by the state budget. Another detail that needs to be solved by me and should be taken into account. In Croatia, we have about 100,000 craftsmen and we have about 100,000 of these legal entities of which 99900 are to express myself small. Many of these people work in state or city spaces. I personally advocate allowing these people to buy out these business spaces at some real price. Workers, pensioners in '91, '92. They came in a position to buy out a social apartment for those five, six, seven thousand euros. The tycoons got factories, they got hotels. Foreign banks have taken over domestic banks. Deutsche Telekom took over the phone, the MOL took over the INA. Now we're gonna sell the shipyards, we're doing denationalization. The PIFs got what's most valuable what's left after conversion, privatisation. It's enough to mention Liburnia, and those little tenants, craftsmen, merchants just can't even get a real price to these business spaces and I'm willing to get rid of it. What's the point of the gentlemen of this law? This is what I think on the other side of this legislative proposal, where it is literally said that the management of state property is not unique, there is no State property management strategy, so it is mostly available through the sales model to cover costs, to cover it, I place an emphasis on the costs of the institutions responsible for the availability of state assets and budget deficits, which has a reduction in the total volume and value of state assets, and is long-term unsustainable. It's a simple quote. It's just a shame that we're selling out the most valuable ones I'd say this country's cookies so we can pay the wages. It is clear that one who does not receive salaries in a system does not know in one Stoneski system does not care that a hotel in Makarska will be sold to pay them or vice versa. If I don't know about a "TES" in Pula, they don't get paid neatly, they don't care if they're going to sell some agricultural under quotes from cooperatives or companies in Slavonia if they're going to get paid. However, the point is again in something else. Two institutions, meaning the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Central Property Management Office are now joining the new agency. I think this timing in which all this is happening means the end of the government, which unfortunately told us today that it could be in power until 11.3.2011. I want to believe that's not gonna happen. For God's sake, I hope you won't be so much in this power. 'Cause what's left of this country after that? We'll see for longer if it doesn't go differently. I don't know how to get you out of it. But I guess we will somehow, okay. But let's play it right now. You won't be so long at least I hope, although I say that on the other hand even the intention of this law may not be bad, but the moment in which this law is proposed is truly disastrous. They're all stuck in something. No one dares to do anything, and Croatia fails, with dignity. What about state-owned companies? Especially with the shipyards? Who will lead this privatisation process? Croatian shipyards read yesterday have orders for 28 ships. Ten of them are out on the Oil. That 10 is worth 20 other ships worth a total of $915.8 million in Ulanik, another $1 billion. What about that privatisation? I'm asking you that if it's an oil man, keep his paws away from him and just don't sell him. Those small stakes in companies clearly sell out immediately but who will now be doing what I was talking about this morning reviewing conversion, privatisation without talking about those national systems who will revise them like the privatisation of an INA, THT, Podravka, etc., Liburnia etc. I am pleased with this article 6 where you are talking about this governance code. It can no longer happen that about these large some systems where the direct state was being stolen, and all the sodium was always being thrown at the Parliament. For example, someone gets a million-dollar apartment and 600,000 kuna, and HEP pays him 600,000 kuna. So where it can just be. So there's nothing, and on the other hand, the whole nation's doing lunches at a congregation restaurant or the price of one beer or one coffee. But what do I want to say? The weaker the Parliament, the stronger the executive power. The weaker the Parliament, the poorer it is, the more unspective and unfortunately the more stolen it is. So for the end, just two more sentences. This law isn't bad, but the moment it's proposed is bad, I'm afraid it'll block everything, even though our problem as never before has been as much in the law as in this practice and the individuals surrounding us. All in all, it's good that the law goes into second reading, about huge assets, so it wouldn't be too burning to discuss the law in third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59609	Thank you, colleague Cain. As usual, after his address, we have several applications to correct the allegations. First of all, dear colleague Goran Maric. Here's my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59610	Thank you very much. A colleague, Cain, said a major incorrect allegation, that the government of the Republic of Croatia has driven 5 billion euros of investment from Croatia, and that it has prevented 100,000 jobs from being hired. This allegation is not verifiable, so it is neither valid nor true. My colleague Cain, I'm amazed at the real ease of throwing out your data like from a catapult. You use billions as the simplest numbers. You hundreds of thousands of unemployed like those pre-election promises 200 thousand employees. So do you consider investors those who bought your Istrian, or our Croatian country agricultural by euro or two, and later want to re-use into construction and put pressure on local self-government to re-use this land and not succeed, then they say it's investors. Are those investors for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59611	It's all turned into archaeological... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59612	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59613	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, I'm being interrupted... [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59614	Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59615	Tell me an example of an investor who left Croatia because the government banned him and did not allow an investment. But one example is concrete. I know investors have difficulty, so a building permit has been waiting for the cemetery for two years, but that's no reason to force investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59616	Thank you, colleague Maric. This is now turning into a replica, and I believe that you and your colleague Cain will already show up at the next address about concrete data or numbers. Correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Cain said in his statement that we had driven away all the investments we could in Istria. Well, that's not true, fellow Caine. I have to remind you that just with the IDS sponsorship, Rockwul came to Istria, is that you've completely fulled the location, is that today you wash your hands like Pontius Pilate and pretend that you had nothing to do with it, while that company that in its country would have to work according to all standards in Istria, and your mayor on all calls and ministers and me as presidents of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection is deafening, and he didn't even want to carry out independent measurements to see what was really going on there. That is why I would say that I would recommend that in Istria, given that Istria is indeed a beautiful region, you are more committed to sustainable development, that you attract those investments that create new jobs, protect the social security of employees and protect the environment, rather than these investments like Rockwall, which you have put back into the completely wrong location and destroy rural tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59618	That's true, but if you see who's using it then with 0.5% of Croatian exports... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59619	Thank you. We have a further correction of the quote, dear colleague Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59620	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59621	A mandarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59622	Representative Gabric, calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'd like to join this, in this pleasant chat, I'd say with my colleague Caine. My colleague Cain used to say several incorrect allegations, but I'd only focus on one that says that local self-government doesn't do anything, that it's been blocked all its life. That's incorrect. In the local self-government it is done very hard, persistent and diligently and each unit and in my county shows the essence of its existence, and each is done properly and how many possibilities they allow. Furthermore, you're saying that of course you wouldn't mind having capital come and invest, creating jobs, but at the same time something in that sense starts to work, then the noise comes right away, and maybe there's an expression of corning, and the drinking of early corn is known how it ends, in a pot. Next, you said something about beer and coffee at the constituency restaurant. I'm saying that neither, nor the other is enough, it's not too good, because one harms the heart, and the other, the other is made by loud noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59624	Thank you, Doctor. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59625	Thank you very much. I would correct the inaccuracy of colleagues Caine, unfortunately, did not say that he would leave in 2011, but in 2012, however, at the 3rd month, despite what in recent days the HDZ ministers have admitted to stealing money from the ministries, which is the cover of all the media, the diary as a black chronicle, all with the main roles of former prime ministers, vice-president, the HDZ government minister. They say that for another year and three and a half years, they would do damage to this country. And unfortunately, they are supported by parties such as HSS, SDSS, minorities, unfortunately they all share in the unprecedented damage together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59626	Thank you, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59627	The unprecedented damage that has been done these days... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59628	Thank you, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59629	The state and they'd be doing that damage for another year and a half, and you'd be colleagues from... Unfortunately, it's not funny to anyone but you. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59630	Comrade Maras, here you have shown an example in the first part of how to correct the allegations correctly, because it is true that colleague Cain said in 2011, and you have warned that it was published in the media that this is about 2012. And that's how we're supposed to fix the allegations. And these are the replicas later. And I'm begging you now, the last one to sign up for a quote-fixed, distinguished colleague, Miss Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59631	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am correcting an incorrect quote, one of a series of course, Mr. Representative Caine, in which he claims Croatia is failing. Of course, it is not true, simply because everyone knows it and that Croatia is here under the leadership of this government and the measure of economic recovery, but also the fight against corruption that has no name, no political party, and does not acknowledge anything, but will simply clean up all this which is spoken of, so it will not survive and hide under the carpet and fear of it, and instead of calling for a dear God whom it does not believe better to call AB MARIS, the company Daria and Jupiter ADRIA, a little to return to its Istria there can, and perhaps a little further, and Croatia will always be as long as we, dear God and us who carry the Homeland in our hearts and who are above all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59632	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59633	If you believed in the dear God, you wouldn't do that to this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59634	Thank you. ... Let's not, let's not say what colleague Anticevic blasphemy says, but let's move on with the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Reports on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished colleague Slavko Linic. Here's my colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59635	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The position of the SDP club is that it will support this legislative proposal in the first reading with the fact that we will try to suggest in this brief discussion what should be done on this legal text in order to make this text better in the second reading. We estimate that it is indeed high time to change the manner of behaviour in registering the property of the Republic of Croatia, in the care of it and the availability of that property. And that is why we appreciate that this legal text has a certain purpose in it, so that is why we will support it and try to suggest certain solutions that we expect should be in this text. Of course, each of us needs a concerned assessment of the property situation, and we must not be satisfied with that assessment. And she's the one who needs to be worried about each and every one of us MPs. Every single one of us who knows something about the legal decisions relating to the property knows that apart from perhaps managing two bodies, the right to dispose has over 20 entities in the Republic of Croatia. And our legal texts, we've been working out how we're going to give the forest powers to manage certain properties, not forest, but forest property, and water and I'd tell the roads and defenses to the ministry, and I don't know the Ministry of Finance. So, the mass of participants in a series of legal projects manage, and not the attention of a good businessman, but in order to eventually have as little cost as possible and to reduce the expenditures and damages caused by the property is obviously that we do not have a different economy than it is a burden for the Republic of Croatia. And that's something that's very clear and transparently stated in the reasoning of this legal text, so there's no need to discuss it, because the proposer himself says management of state property is neither unique nor there's a strategy, so the availability of state property is mostly a model of sales to reduce expenditure. And that's the hardest part, I'd say, finding out how we treat the property of Croatian citizens. Secondly, what's less elaborate in this document is property records. And unfortunately, we need to be aware that we don't have a record of our property. The transitional provisions of this legal text indicate that we will be working the records again based on what someone has, a private person, a company that is obliged to provide us with the data. So for 20 years after that, I would say, our decision on the independence of the Republic of Croatia we don't even have a record of that property. And that's something that's certainly a failure and a legislator, but also an executive body that had to take care of it. Unfortunately if we go deeper inside, especially in agricultural land, I'd say certain properties related to forests, even if we're looking at roads, roads, we don't even have defined values of that property. We didn't define value. We are all aware that defining the value of a particular asset creates huge costs for the Republic of Croatia, I would say to the users and those who have the property, but it is evident that the audits are also warning us about it, and the attention I would say to the responsible owner is that we must have the value of that property. Regardless of what we are, if we have a share of sales or concessions with it or I would say rent, we have to update that value, so it's a cost again, but we have to be responsible and we have to insist that the records be clear, and that the records be through the value system. Not through squares, not through hectares, but also value. And these are the problems that we haven't solved in 20 years. And that's when we get to the biggest problem. With the forest regulations we've passed over the last 20 years, we've completely opposed individual users of that property or I'd tell the authorities who have the right to dispose of that property. The conflict between them, not making decisions, parallels, I would say opposing interests, are the reason that the property was neither in the right position, and probably that property could not have served even the high-quality owners, nor would I say actual income, job creation with that property of Croatian citizens. We must therefore be concerned about these relations and surely that the change in these relations must be a single office because it is the practice of Europe, which is obviously based on the experience of the conflicted authorities of the state administration, our solution to try to remove this obstacle by a single body, and all in a function to benefit the citizens of Croatia. If they are, I'd say, and the most difficult assessment of the current state of property management, if we're aware that it's been 20 years, if we're aware that it's time to change our mind completely, our behavior, then we're wondering if this legal text gives an answer? The SDP Club doesn't think so. There are two problems ahead of us. One is property and liability for the management of the property, and the other is which bodies will decide in the future on the property. And according to the SDP assessment, the legal text too deals only with the merger of two state bodies, by regulating the government's relations with these bodies tomorrow, independence, powers, availability. But what's far more important to me than saying that Parliament will bring strategy, and the government plans annually, far less dealing with the problem that this property unfortunately produces, I would say for the users and the state budget itself, and on the other hand, that it does not give effect. So we're suggesting that an additional I would tell the problems to deal with, and this property should be far more addressed in the second reading, the proposer precisely on the subject of property. What are you supposed to tell us? In our opinion, it should be much clearer to say what time we're going to bring in and get the register. It can't be an indefinite time. In 2003, we made a decision on some kind of register. There's no effect. Why? We didn't bring deadlines. Come on, deadlines. Let's confirm them. Also one of the biggest issues and the cost will be the asset assessment. Is that why we're estimating the property? Yeah. regardless of what may not enter the market, but the property must have its value, we need to know how much it is worth, because then we will simply be more transparent in all procedures. But we don't say anything here. We're not talking about assessing these costs as to how we're going to finance them. The law must be dealt with simply and easily. Of course, for us, it's also a question of what to do with companies, let's take the railroad, which obviously I would say significantly reduced my activity, so the question is what to do with the property in such companies. Whether we allow a legal entity or given the specificity of the railway, we will also define if nothing else, at least by means of a strategy through this Parliament, because we also decide on the railway strategy, or whether the government commits these specific activities to annual plans and companies. All of this in our view means these problems that we realize we have with the property, we would have to solve through legislative proposals and through the addition of this first reading, to be sure and convinced that then we would have far better solutions. Therefore, for the SDP club, the other part of the solution that says that more or less the Privatisation Fund and the Central Office for State Property Management as a body that will serve the new agency, we have nothing against these solutions. We estimate that these solutions are acceptable and that we actually have people and staff who can do that part of the job. But are we going to change the philosophy of behavior, whether we're going to motivate all the bodies to understand that responsibility for the property of the citizens, to change their behavior, that's what we're not convinced of. And that is why we estimate that the legal proposal in the second reading in that section should be complemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59636	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59637	Well, Mr. President, counterpart Linic incorrectly states that "because of the forest regulations and state property could not be used by citizens", which is absolutely incorrect. Let us remember the numerous cities and municipalities that have acquired the assets available, which have won the concession, and of which almost 400 working areas have been created today. So, all preconditions for investment. And the biggest problems we forgot to say is that here is the return of land, the return of property that was seized during the communist rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59638	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go. I'd like to ask the clubs to organize a little because we announced it in one vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59639	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. It has long been said that it is necessary to unite all state property under one cap, and in order to finally know its value and what is more important to put it into function in the best possible way. To date, no single and complete system of recording of state property has been established, and the exchange of several unrelated individual records, to this end still in the jurisdiction of different institutions, so we can hardly say that we know the exact list of state assets. For example, the Central State Office for State Property Management shall keep a register of state assets which is not complete, and his cooperation with the primary authorities of the State Administration shall be related to the said register. On the other hand, the Croatian Privatisation Fund keeps records of the property that is registered on it as well as part of the assets of other state-owned owners for which they have information but it is not complete since it does not describe all forms of state property. This led to the fact that we do not have a systematic record of the entire state property, and this results in the inability to review the purposes of individual forms, and property making it difficult to determine the best way to dispose of the property. Although the government is the highest body of the executive authority responsible for the management of state property, it must not be forgotten that this property is primarily the property of all citizens of this country and should be managed in a way that will bring the greatest benefit. Until now, it has been managed through the Central State Office for State Property Management, as well as agencies and funds, and the Government is obliged to establish an efficient system of governmental property management and to improve it in order to achieve strategic interests more effectively and put into operation this great resource. Not only would it be used to meet public authorities' obligations to citizens, but also the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. State assets should be managed through well-defined models and business processes, which is important to shape a reporting and surveillance system, taking into account different forms of property, ownership and value, and the principles of public efficiency, accountability and predictability. In fact, state property is owned by companies as well as property of real estate, such as apartments and business premises, building land, various complexes and many other things. Ownership stakes in commercial societies and property are mainly registered in the Republic of Croatia, ministries and Croatian funds, as well as the Croatian Privatisation Fund, as well as in part to institutions, agencies such as the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. We therefore welcome the adoption of this law since it provides for the establishment of a State Property Management Agency to replace the two institutions I mentioned earlier, the Central State Office for State Property Management and the Croatian Privatisation Fund as well as the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. Since these two institutions are now managing most of the state property, this will achieve more effective management of these valuable resources, as well as equilibration of governance, and will expect an increase in the value of state assets and, moreover, the merger of these institutions will reduce their operating costs. Such practice is not unknown and is also present in some other Member States of the European Union. This law also provides for the establishment and management of a central register of state property that would be divided into a register of real estate and a register of companies that would run the said agency and will be publicly available to all Croatian citizens. Since state property is the property of all Croatian citizens concerned by the complexity and inappropriateness of the property process which is not assessed in the process of converting social property, which belongs to the state. This is due to the usurpation of that part of the assets by unauthorized persons, as well as the prevention of the realization of investment projects. It is good that this law lays down a simpler process of establishing ownership on such property, and we hope that this will put an end to the unauthorized uptake of the property of Croatian citizens. Better insight into the situation, as well as the more rational availability of state-owned assets, will contribute to the establishment of business procedures and the measurement of cost effects, as well as the professional management of state-owned assets as foreseen by the establishment of this agency. In addition, it will allow quick decision-making based on the evaluation of benefits and costs and a proper information system in which it is particularly important to establish adequate business supervision and control and measurement of success as well as what Croatian citizens may expect the most, which is the transparency of business. It is important, and as envisioned by this law, that the Croatian Parliament adopts a three-year strategy for state property management and that the government adopts an annual management plan as an operational plan for which the Agency's results will report to the Government and the Croatian Parliament each year. The current rules governing the management of governmental assets of certain institutions have not enabled the use of all authorised management models, such as public calls for the takeover of stock companies. It was not possible to manage rationally, and this law would enable the Agency and introduce new models such as the capitalisation of state-owned companies through initial, public and private offers or sales through the negotiation process. A method of determining the value of the ownership shares and real estate and the availability method as well as the conditions for the agency to dispose of them on its own, and when, with the prior consent of the Governing Council, and when, with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is also determined. As mentioned earlier, it shows that this law will regulate this area in a way that is more efficient in managing state assets and will also encourage new investments needed to speed up economic recovery and create new jobs. State property needs to be put in place to contribute to raising the quality of life and further development of the Republic of Croatia, which is what all our citizens expect, and therefore the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this legislative proposal because we believe it will make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59640	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 12.49, it's been 10 minutes. I also inform that the 39th session of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly will be held today, October 6th, at Janko Draskovic's hall at 14:00. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, as I have announced now would be a short one vote. We're continuing with this agenda point that we discussed. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59642	The proposal for a law on state property management is one of the proposals that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has tried or is trying to implement certain savings to make the state of the Republic of Croatia's budget better. ... /The noise in the hall./... Let those who don't think go first, then I'll go on. Don't count this for me in time. So, after the horses or ergels in Đakov and Lipik, after the merger of hospitals and clinics in Zagreb, here is a new proposal that suggests that the Central Office for the Management of State Property, then the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Agency for Legal Transport of Real Estates is gathered to say that they are being united and that their role is being played by the Agency for the Management of State Property or how the Agency says here that I am not longer in the name. It is interesting also from previous discussions and the knowledge that there is still no record in the Republic of Croatia or register or catalogue of state property, and when we say catalogue and when we think of the most common catalog of a trading house then there is always a price next to the article itself. Therefore, the price or assessment of the value of what is in the possession of, of what the State has. In that case, in the case of privatisation, in the case of leases, concessions, etc. What the agency would do would know exactly, so what is the value of the assets at its disposal, and what is achieved by the actions that the Agency would do, on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the citizens of Croatia and the Croatian people. Whose real value is that and whose property it is. That's why in the past, and here we see and every day we discover very ugly things. Let us remind ourselves of the privatisation of INA, Pliva, THT, Banks, Liburnia, of the evil of Zeljezara Split, or of the pardon not of the ironworks, but of the Zlomrex, so it reminds me and associated with the word evil that escalates these days with dissatisfaction, justifiable dissatisfaction of the workers. So here's the Stonestone, etc. All of this is on the trail of mismanagement of state assets from the entities that managed it, and they are called the Central Office for the Management of State Property, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, etc. There are 18 municipalities of special state care in Brod-Posavina County. And I have to say when someone here was talking about the Real Estate Legal Agency that big things were done right through that agency, very positive things. So that young people from these municipalities, including neighbouring municipalities, are neatly and rightly using what is legally prescribed on areas of special state concern are to say to build buildings through this agency, help this agency and shifts are seen in this sense. And I'd positively appreciate the agency's work. Whether there will be a negative shift in this regard in the case of such a legal solution when the Agency for State Property Management is subject and this part of the Real Estate Payment Agency will only be seen. It's actually interesting to admit in some ways, the confession on page two at the top says that management of state property is not unique, there is no strategy for managing state property. Therefore, these are all recognitions, making it available to state assets mainly through the sales model to cover the costs of the institutions responsible for the availability of state assets and budget deficits, resulting in a reduction in the total volume and value of state assets, and this is long-term unsustainable. You see, it says here the value of state property. So a reduction in the value of state property. And when we do and when we want to make that record, register or catalogue of state property, then I really support the proposal to make, if possible, a second reading and a indicative assessment or value of that property. Furthermore, on page three of this bill, it reads that it emerged from the January 2008 coalition agreement, which would therefore be divided into a register of real estate and company registers, and would be run by the agency and made publicly available to Croatian citizens. And it is also represented in the following articles, hence the availability not to say the ugly side of the word transparency, so the public works of the agency and the availability of state property. However, Article 29 of this same law, which he said, would be consistent with the anti-violet policy of this Government, clearly states that the president, vice-president and members of the board of directors and nine members, then three members of the administration and employees of the agency are obliged to data on trading societies and real estate and their knowledge in the conduct of their duties and to keep confidential data for at least two years after the end of their duties or work in the Agency. How far does this provision extend in Article 29? So, if they were obliged to keep some kind of secret, and in the opening part of this legislative proposal, it says that it would be publicly available, so this record, property register or catalogue, publicly available to Croatian citizens. In Article 29, some secrets are discussed in the article of the Law. In addition, there is a requirement to store the data referred to in the preceding paragraph for all other persons who gain insight into the data referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article when performing their tasks for the Agency. We've seen ourselves gentlemen from the Government of a lot of secret contracts kept secret for two or more years, and then they surfaced, and now we're setting up a parliamentary commission for the INA, we're setting up a parliamentary commission I don't even know about all the possible affairs that broke out, and then the details of the privatisation contract for Split, I said evil of... and a series of other Liberians, conversions, privatisations of the hotel, so will come in line of the bank, especially Hypo, etc. [[You don't understand.]] Why this provision in Article 29? Is it to hide jobs that would be similar to those before? I would not like it to happen, clearly that, I want exactly what has been declared, the public work of the agency, the availability of data of the property of all Croatian citizens, it has every Croatian right to see what our state, its state, has and what it is worth, and not to keep it secret, and then jobs in terms of sales, leases, etc. to keep it two years after this, let me put it so inaccessible, so untransparent. In any case, I am convinced that it is a good intention to propose this legislative proposal and that this is the first reading, so that these proposals and remarks can be classified and can be promoted by the proposings, and I think that this, the law in the second reading, will also bring certain repairs and certain improvements in this regard. This is why the HDSSB club will be here in its first reading, since the first reading is supported by such a legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59643	Thank you. ... debate, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59644	Thank you very much. It's a state property problem. And what happened to state property might best be painted now in a legendary sentence of a character known to everyone on a small screen by the Isca brothers, but it's loose, it's lapping all over the place. The state property was hijacked, the skull, the main reason is also the main reason for such illegal alienation of property in one way or another, and even... for privatisation, and it's good to end it, it's big news and it's good, because we don't have any property registered today. [[You don't understand.]] The state doesn't know what the owner's from. Of course it's not a simple process. I remember in 2000 when the head of the office that was founded for the management of state property went personally, with a paper list, with a bookbook looking for which apartments were owned by the state. And then there was no wonder how they were alienated and how people got to the state's dwellings in various ways. Unfortunately, today we have a different twist, that often the state registers, that formal correction on private property, and that causes great difficulties for our citizens. But let's let go of these individual cases now, in any case, to greet her, and we expected this kind of bill on state property. And it's a good thing my colleagues said, that it's the first reading, that until the second reading, until the second reading, things get better, because it's very important to us what the law itself is, and how things are set up, and what principles the agency itself will be led to. At first, I would say that the proposal for a Law on State Property Management cannot remain, because that name is too narrow. This law does not only talk about state property management, it speaks about the availability of state property, and it speaks about the acquisition of state property. Of course sometimes the law, the name of the law is wider than the content itself, and somewhere is narrower than the content itself. It wouldn't be some kind of... , and something to run from, but it is precisely for the sake of clarity and for the sake of a message to addressees, which means to all citizens potentially to those who will be sellers or those who will acquire such property in different ways, whether they are natural or legal. [[You don't understand.]] Why isn't it simply called the State Property Act? In short, I think that even in such a way, it is a much stronger message that we want to begin by adopting this law. In line with what I said, it is necessary to amend the provision of Article 1 because it states that this law regulates the principles and rules of property management, and governance is not acquisition and is not available, but you manage what you currently have. So it's too tight a name. Article 1 should also intervene. It should be equally defined in Article 1 as to the relationship between the Government and the Agency, and whether it is an agency, so we will see in one specific provision that the Agency is established as a legal person with public authority but which is independent and independent. It can't be. Not even when he has an independent authority to dispose of an expensive asset worth 5 million kuna, without asking the government. It can't be. The government, i.e. the Parliament, is the Republic of Croatia's owner, agency, which is the agency's business for the government, and which then refers to the Parliament itself, because the Parliament will also appoint certain members, certain members of the governing council. So this can cost us a lot, and that leads to error. She has some independent jobs that she should not ask the government for each, or for every little thing, for every square meter she buys or who, especially, will alienate. But to be clear, she has responsibilities for both what she has done and for these lower values, she also makes accounts for the government as well as for the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I think in the legal position of the agency in Article 12 should be deleted, because the agency is not independent and independent, it acts under these powers given to it by law, and under those duties, and this is unnecessary, because if it is independent and independent, then the Government, then all those later provisions where the Government orders it and where the Government makes decisions that the Agency implements are meaningless, cannot exist both. In terms of concepts, therefore, it is written here that the property is so described the building and other land, dwellings, business premises, etc., of course the exemption of water, agricultural land and forest land, forests, so our most valuable resources and quite logical because they are special, special laws and specific laws are governed by the team, special institutions manage these resources. However, I note that we also passed the Law on Tourist Land where, in this Law on Tourism Land, something also belonged to the state. Well, that's what you should take care of. But here we're only talking about real estate for tourist purposes, but we have to say construction, tourism and other land, so there wouldn't be any different interpretations. However, it is surprising that you have not regulated the issue of mine treasure here. Of course, concessions for the exploitation of ore, minerals are given according to individual laws and different powers, but in any case consider whether existing laws, the Mining Act are sufficient and whether there are any discrepancies, in any case how they should react on time and in this bill. It's especially good, it's something that should really be commended because it's not in other laws, and that's what every law has ever kept the principles, especially the fundamental law. I think this is one basic law. The principle of predictability, the principle of effectiveness and accountability. Therefore, all other provisions should stem from these very principles. This is a modern principle of predictability, in other countries they have a name, but in Europe and calculation. Because power, every power must be predictable and calculating to know how it will behave in similar situations and that it does not depend on this or that personnel combination. Here, I've already said something about the legal position of the agency itself, but anyway, here we now have the government's relationship and the agency's relationship. It seems to me that still burdened with that, with this duality of asset management that created a good basis for alienating state property, not for managing and acquiring. Namely, duality and the State Property Management Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which was celebrated by its activities. However, that one spirit and its principles seem to be floating here. Because there is a duality in how the Agency acts and how its relations with the Government and the government decisions that the Agency subsequently implements in relation to different types of assets. If we are already handling unique principles, well they are general in the way we act, but that and as well as how well these standards are worked out, there is no need for us to distinguish the property that is in the rights, which is in the real estate, land, in the buildings or in the shares in the companies. For all of them it should be valid, and it is unnecessary then it seems to me burdensome and text and some duality is created again as if we are treating this kind of property differently, and there is no need for that because the same legal regime in our legal order applies to all these properties. So the only sensus should be the one that's here and determined not to just ask the government every moment but to make this amount of 5 million kuna, maybe to think about maybe a smaller one, now that's least important. But this is something I especially want to say, members of the board and members of the board, I will especially say about the members of the board. It is not good to be chosen for a period of 5 years and that can be special... Let them be for 8 years, but they must no longer be appointed, only then as a control mechanism will they be able to do their duty well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let the board members or repeat their mandate, it is in their interest to work well. But those watching them, they see whether to like politics and whether they will be re-elected because they depend on them as members and as judges of the Constitutional Court as they are elected in Slovenia. They have one single mandate, and then it doesn't matter who picked it. Then he has his own way, only managed by the Constitution and only by law. Please think about it, it's the best anti-corruption measure not only in this law but also in many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59645	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 3:00, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59646	We'll continue the afternoon session. Individual debate, Proposal for a Law on State Property Management, first reading, P.Z. Number 597. It's our guest, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. The first thing that I'm going to express is that this law goes into second reading, means that we can still do it and make it even better in some way. And, of course, the pleasure of getting the law, and I'm going to support it that's going to be fully engaged in state property. And I'm going to express my regret that this has never been done before, or that in some way with the very valuable property that the state has, I'd say at some point in my life in an irresponsible and irresponsible way. We have all these years of unification announcements in one place of property management, sort of a property record, but that can't happen. In 2007, something more intense came up after the Maestro affair when it was announced that the Privatisation Fund would be abolished and that an asset fund would be created to unite all state-owned companies. Three years have passed since then, and only now do we get the law on the table. And as bad as the property is managed, I'll say from a few data. We have, as is known to be around 774 companies owned by the minority or majority of the Republic of Croatia, worth around 11 billion kuna, market value, meaning on the basis of the nominal value of their shares, and those companies that could have been sold in 2007, i.e. which were liquid, where state ownership was up to 25%, were then worth 5.9 billion kuna. Today 2010 is worth a billion and 600 million. So, if we had applied a clear indication at that time that we were going to sell all the shares below 25%, then we would have received nearly 6 billion kuna, and today we can't get but a billion 600. So in those three years I'd say "inconclusive," we lost 4 billion and 300 million on shares that are liquid or traded on capital markets. And that's one of the damages that we'll find very difficult to recover, even with the passing of a law like this, which unfortunately comes too late. Other non-traded companies, but for which more money could then be obtained, have not been sold. Unfortunately, also when we talk about it, the state is a minority owner, or below 25%, then it could get about 11 billion kuna, today it can't get even 4. So that's the damage that's pretty big, it can be nominally manifest, and if we'd behaved like we want to do today in 2007, Croatia would have won nearly 7 billion kuna. And now the question is, why didn't we start that story sooner? Why is this whole time delayed by uniting property in one place and ultimately by selling the share of the country where it is a minority owner, or below 25%? There are a whole series of answers, of course the most common answer is to retain influence in some companies. We can see that the state is not the majority owner of Podrava but has a major impact. So that's where less than 25% of all policies have been run and managed by the company, and we've seen how this management ended in Spice's affair, or millions of damages, about 400 million damages for the company itself. What is concrete from this law is in some way acknowledging that there is no full list of state assets, that it is not reduced to one place and that the state simply does not know what it has. That there is a certain part of the property at the disposal of the Office of State Property, with one part of the Ministry of Defence, with a third part of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and that together we do not have a review at this time what the state has, which it can sell, which it can commercialise, which in some ways may rent, but it is simply on several sides and no one is leading, I would say care and quality manages this property. There are a whole series of real estates in Croatia that use certain natural and legal persons, no rent is paid, and this country is losing a large income that could eventually have. The second question is the land issue and why no property is introduced and why this fund does not control agricultural land. About 60 million square meters of land throughout Croatia, this fund will not manage it, but will again be managed on several different sides. What I would like specifically to change in this law concerns both the availability of real estate and the assessment of who and how they can sell certain properties. I absolutely think it's unacceptable that no matter what the value of real estate is sold publicly by collecting offers. Quite often, a number of entities have been invited to apply for some real estate, and in the end you do not have more than one. And it's aimed at buying real estate. This was the subject of an audit and had many objections in this way to the implementation of the state-owned real estate process. And I think everything should be sold through a public tender, to ultimately get the highest quality and highest bid. I'm also not happy that no matter what the amount of 5 million kuna is set up, the agency itself has the property. I think absolutely, no matter what 5 million kunas don't look much, but that amount must be much lower where, in some way, according to the decision of the board of directors, real estate would be sold. So that amount would have to be much lower than 5 million kuna. I suggest it be a million kunas. On the other hand, the expected market value of real estate agencies is here proposed to carry out an estimate of the agency itself to the value of 5 million kuna. Now it's a question of what the expected market value means. This can be put in 5 million kunas, and real estate is worth a lot more, so the agency itself can estimate the real estate much less than it is market value. And we've had a lot of cases here, and the review has been continuous for years, and she's been objecting to an estimate of the value of certain properties. I would insist that every real estate in the law says that it must be made by an authorised court expert, that there is no possibility for the agency itself to assess the value of the property and therefore sell certain real estate. So, as you can conclude from this debate I'd like more supervision when selling the property. I think we've had a lot of negative examples in recent years, unnecessary ones I'd say an affair, non-transparency in the Privatisation Fund, and I think that's why the criteria for availability and sale of property are going to be a little stricter, and I hope that by next reading it will be included in the law. Otherwise, I welcome the adoption of a whole law and I hope that after so many years we will finally have a register, a public register of all that the state has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59648	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59649	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you have said several really rational and suggestions and suggestions, but you have given two allegations that are not correct. The first allegation is not true that seven billion kunas lost the state because they did not sell a portfolio owned by below 25% and another allegation that no one in this country is taking care of state property. That's not true, and there's no need to specifically explain that he's still taking care of it, and here's the bill of law that proves that he's taking care of it. The biggest problem is where the Privatisation Fund does not know that there is an asset that has not entered the underlying capital, which is managed by companies because they do not provide the fund with information that they have, without having entered the underlying capital, and there is a legal framework which needs to force companies to commit and report to the fund on this situation. And I think that this bill is also going in this direction to repair that legal framework so that there is no situation that the fund does not know about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59650	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's the honorary representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59651	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. To make a point of correcting my colleague Marić's incorrect claim, I understood Mr. Maras not in the sense that no one is taking care of the property but that no one from one place is taking care of the property but that he is running from more places. You know what it's called, a big, fat old girl. So this law is one big step forward at the disposal and management of state property and we need one philosophy of relations with state property to change. So the only owner of state property is the Republic of Croatia. They are not the owners of the ministry, they are not the owners of the agency, they own the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the government manages the property through its asset management agency. The property is being used by both ministries and state-owned companies and some kind of institution. This property can be rented, this property can be given in a concession, but what's important is that it knows who's responsible for this property and that this property management system is somehow rational and that I'm going to use that word normally, because what's so far been going on, not by any government before, was therefore an attempt to bring the system to normal. By 2000, the Government of the Republic of Croatia had had the Property Management Commission. In 2000 or 2001, the coalition government established the Office of State Property, and by changing its office became 2003. The Central State Property Management Office, after the Maestro affair, began to talk about joining together with the Privatisation Fund and that it would be one agency or one institution. One of the key requirements of one of the coalition partners during the elections was also to unite the management of state assets or to place all of this in one place. What's important is to say and repeat, you need to know who's responsible. It must therefore be known to whom it should be addressed if any irregularities or illogicalities are observed. I am not one of those who claim that any illogicality is also a deliberate mistake, although of course there are such mistakes, but when it is known what system is easy to react. In this situation when everyone manages or everyone thinks they are in control or everyone thinks they can manage, then mistakes are very difficult to spot, and they're even harder to correct, and they're more difficult to avoid. We have assets that are used by state bodies that may even be being used irrationally, that maybe some institutions can have far less real estate in place to perform their function properly. There's also one species, I'd say it's related to a certain asset. That's primarily what I mean by military property that doesn't use anything, so inspective military property. There are ideas that they are actually made of money obtained by taking advantage of or by other means of this property to improve or fill the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army which I do not think is correct. First of all, these assets were built out of the money in the former state budget, and some of the Republic of Croatia, all citizens, and it is the property of all and there is no military exclusive right to that kind of property. Secondly, the military is not a real estate agency, so its success will depend on whether our defence system will be better or less equipped. The military is part of society and what this property gets goes into the state budget, and the government and Parliament will eventually decide whether it is a priority in the state to invest in defence, to invest in social, to invest in health care or something else. In this way, they would actually turn soldiers into real estate managers, and in this way they would close the system even more. So I think that this idea, I personally suggest that it is not good and therefore property owned by the Republic of Croatia is owned by all citizens and has no exclusive right. Also, the availability of this type of property can be a kind of game of political power between individuals or groups within the governing structure regardless of what option is on the government. And you know, when you control more then you have a little more power. Then some institutions are very rarely and hard to give up these kinds of powers because there is no one behind them who is responsible for it and who would insist on doing so. Therefore, a person who heads the agency must be therefore a person who will not have political authority above him, who will not have to succumb to pressures that will be able to work independently. And now the question is that in the second reading of the law, their responsibility and the way of appointment is made so that one balance is established between political influence on people who do so and, of course, their expertise and abilities, so that the property entrusted to them in the best way is used. Of course, there are times when it's good to sell property, there are times when it's good to buy property, there are times when it's good to rent property, there are times when I don't know when it's good property to give in concession or break that lease. And what's on the market today isn't what it's going to be in three years and what's happened in three years. Therefore, these are people who have to be freed from political influences and who must have some experience in doing so and primarily have to have services that are able to deal with various legal disputes that the state faces in the distribution of the story of state property because this property came from several different titles – former state property, the property of the Federation, so the ownership of the republic, and the ownership of former municipalities, and then the ownership of social enterprises, etc. And each of those stories has its own court epilogue. And in the end, we come up with a situation that even people at the Privatisation Fund don't even know that some property is state-owned because it's probably neither grantine nor cadastre were built to know that. This law is therefore one step forward in any case and what I particularly liked in this law are articles 3 to 7. Therefore, the principle of predictability, the principle of effectiveness and the principle of accountability. It's something that really pleasantly surprised me and surprised me, and that's why I'm going to support this law, although it surprises me that it comes from a government whose principles were actually unpublicity and unpredictability and irresponsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59652	It is next to the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59653	Thank you very much. This is a good legal proposal. He's so good that as far as we can see from the debates by clubs and even the individual debates so far that there's actually not one serious objection to the concept of the law, to the idea of the law, and even to how it's nomotechnically solved, it means how the law is written. He is so good that he could almost pass and in his first reading with several amendments and small repairs he would remain an excellent legislative proposal. He, however, is a good legal proposal that will not solve anything because these things can hardly be solved by any law, however good the law is. Instead of the two institutions that exist now, the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Central Office of State Property Management will have one institution – the agency will be called. But the management of that agency is starting again from the government. The government is proposing to the board of directors, the board of directors elects the board, elects the board president. Therefore, the choice of key people in this new body begins with the government, starting with the government, and ending with the government. We'll have one body instead of two, which is rational and what's good and what needs to be said. But it's not a Croatian problem that he had two bodies, it's what was done in them. That's the problem. Here at the Croatian Privatisation Fund, a robbery was discovered. Here's the verdict, it's a proven cause. She didn't just say that - she said it wasn't political bickering. And in the board of directors of the Privatisation Fund at the time of the robbery, there were five ministers and one vice president of the government. All roads lead to the government. And that these five ministers and that vice-president of the government are now already accused of other things, that they managed the Croatian Privatisation Fund that they were supposed to manage the robbery could not even happen. The supervision, therefore, of state property is real estate and these are equity shares, which is the most significant property in the state. Well, we also had a minister's oversight at Brodosplit. What was he watching? Well, he was monitoring the robbery. That's what he was monitoring, and that's the problem. And there is no law that can solve it no matter how well written as this law is written. Now. We'll go through another reading, we'll pass the law. The government will propose new bodies, new people, the parliamentary majority will vote in the new administrative council. The board of directors will elect management, the administration will elect the president of the administration among themselves. Who's going to decide that? These same people who decided at the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which decided in Brodosplit, which decided in Podrava, which decided on Croatian roads, in the Croatian highways, which decided to paint the tunnels five times. These same people if this law is voted for the mandate of this government and if this government proposes these same people and that's the problem. He has this law provides for a code in his sixth article. What's the code? He can be in one sentence. Working with good master's manners and not stealing, not stealing. But what guarantee does this law provide? That this same government, with those same people she's already set up there to end or cover or not reveal the theft, will name new people? Can one law prescribe political responsibility? He can't. Political responsibility is a matter of sense of responsibility. You know, when that robbery was discovered at the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and when it was proven, then in civilized countries, where there is a sense of responsibility, because it does not appear in the law, all these ministers resign the same day. Even in this law, it does not say if a robbery, theft, or intermediation occurs, or with the help of that new agency, the government will fall. It doesn't say. Well, that's impossible to write in law. So, is this law good? Yes, it is. But he is at the same time a smoke screen behind which is very skillful and very good to hide political responsibility. We can write hundreds of excellent laws, so there are no Croatian bad laws, and look what happens in Croatia. So is it because these laws are wrong, or because these laws are not respected and because there is no political responsibility? Well, it's this other one. It would be naive to believe that this quality law can solve the problem. So he's not going into the core of the problem, and what's the core of the problem? Could Croatia be a rich, decorated country, a desirable place for the lives of all honest, hardworking people? Well, you could. Could she have been richer? Well, she could have. Could she have had a surplus in her budget instead of missing? Well, she could have. Well, that's what all people see she could do, that's what citizens know. Is that it wasn't stolen here, that it wasn't robbed there, that it didn't go there. That, in this budget, these public companies, which are owned by the Republic of Croatia, were producing profits that would have been put into that budget, instead of doing business so that they would get out of that budget, and then the cashier is also the head of customs, but not the customs goods, but customs goods all around, by public enterprises, fine them. And he's wearing it in the party register or in his private pocket, dear God, it doesn't matter. This country can be rich and decorated and beautiful, as it already is, and desirable for every citizen. It can be desirable for any investor. But trust is sought in those who fulfill public office, trust in those who will appoint these people at the agency here, and this trust I fear today in Croatia with this government is irrevocably lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59654	First of all, we have a correction to the incorrect assumption, the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59655	Thank you very much. So it's incorrect what MP Stazic said, says the same government has set up people who steal in state-owned enterprises, etc. I will remind my colleague Stazic, obviously it is a short memory, that in these state-owned enterprises most of them had from the SDP in the boards of directors, in the supervisory boards, meaning in all those bodies that made the decision for what you're saying. But who about what, you about morality. And it's amazing how cynical you treat these citizens who look at you, you go to Brijuni, to Vangica, you experience it as a Chinese store that it's all 7 kunas and you're flying at the expense of these citizens you're making fun of today behind this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59656	We have one replica, the esteemed representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59657	Here is colleague Stazic, you have mentioned several problems, and I would also briefly refer to a major problem in this replica, which is the problem of military facilities that are abandoned, which are managed by the Central State Property Office. Namely, there is a military facility on the Ivančica mountain, not far from the town of Ivanca, which has been searching for this object for years or for concession, or to revalitate it, namely that object stretches to 600 square meters, along with this facility there is another smaller object in which they were located during the time there was still an army and a vehicle, a trafostation, a boiler room, but there are also 15 rooms, bathrooms, dining rooms, various shelters, but in the last few years it has been completely devastated, and completely destroyed. It's all stolen, there's no glass on any window, there's no door, there's no taps, there's no sinks, there's absolutely nothing. Everything's been stolen, everything that could be taken from these facilities. Here is another example, because the town of Ivanec, another bad example of the Central State Property Management Office, has been looking for this facility for 6, 7 years now to be restored, to give the city’s concession, the city had a plan to develop a mountain tourism, a strategy of tourism was created, but here, even the former President Mesic was visiting several years ago on Ivancica and saw the facility, but after six years of asking, demands, no answer today and no solution, and the facility was completely destroyed. Here's how it's sad to manage state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59658	Thank you. Time. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59659	You're talking about the devastation, the robbery of the defense department's buildings. Yeah, yeah, that's kind of negligent, but it's not the worst. I was talking about another robbery, a robbery of far greater proportions, disproportionate to what you colleagues of Habek are talking about. You know, try, let's say for example. My colleagues Kunst tried to justify such a robbery in fact one view that such a robbery was defended, as if the citizens didn't see it exist. Look, when I say robbery, I don't even think everyone in it was involved, colleague Kunst. I'm an example. I'm sure you didn't get used to it, I'm quite sure. Because they could promise you, say, 10% of the 2 billion and then give you 10 kuna, you'd think everything was okay. And you certainly didn't take part in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59660	Your Honor, Mr. Stazic, you must abide by... Please don't throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have to stick to the reply to the replica, the theme that Habek was talking about. And please don't spread the line. And secondly, don't implicate anyone who has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59661	Well, it doesn't, I'm saying it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59662	Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59663	I'm saying to my colleague Kunst that I'm absolutely convinced he's not. I didn't attack him at all. So I'm talking about this devastation, this robbery isn't just about these tiny objects. Unfortunately, she was on the state property, on the state property. This tip of the ice we read every day must create and create one mistrust whether any legal solution, any of the best, will be able to save this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59664	Thank you. Your time is up. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59665	Dear Vice President, Articles 210 and 214 injured fellow Stazic. First of all, he didn't respond to the replica at all, but he spoke to me insultingly because it obviously struck him that I said he was spending the rabbits of these citizens flying to Wanga after 7 kuna he wasn't ashamed to spend money, I would, everyone would want to spend 7 kunas summering a trail like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59666	Thank you very much. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now it's the honourable representative Ivo Jelusic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We heard in the opening statement, and through the debate of some colleagues that the aim of this law is to manage state assets to streamline the management of assets, and thus to contribute to new economic momentum and new economic development. I'm not a supporter of the normative optimism that they think that as soon as we change the norm, we change the law that right away and reality is really going to be different. So why haven't we managed state property more rationally so far? The backbone of the unification if I may say so are 2 institutions, so the Central State Property Management Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund. They are now uniting under this law at the Asset Management Agency. Is it their unification, is it a guarantee that real management of state property will really be more quality and better? I don't think so. It should only create assumptions if there has been no appropriate normative assumption so far that this management is indeed so. So, I would like to believe that this law will really allow for a different start to work and manage state property differently, not only to change the form by uniting these two institutions, so the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Property Management Office. Physically it's very easy to do, they're at the same address now, in the same building you just need to take down 2 panels and set up one new one. So, physically, it's easy to unite it, but if there's really going to be a quality management of property with one place that we're just going to see and this law itself isn't going to solve it. So, if it's necessary to come to this unification, and I don't think it's disputed not to question, so to pass this law, but I just want to say that it's not, that the fact that this law is passed will not mean that reality is really going to be different. The question is, why haven't we started this procedure before? One of the important things that this law introduces is the unique register of publicly available state property registers, which is good. But why don't we even have now, if not a unique, but a register of state property, each for the part that he's managed so far, that we can just physically put those two together and have a quality property register as soon as possible. I don't know how long it's gonna take, but I'd be to limit it to give for these laws in favour of creating this property register in as short a time period as possible. I'm some proponent of an evaluation that's, like, six months or more. But in any case, it's not just one of the legal provisions that's not time-limited, so let's say it's going to be created, it's going to be done, so in three years, we don't have a single property register and it's not publicly available, and when you don't know what you have, then it's rational to manage it. I will remind you only of the last session, i.e. the last session of this session of this Parliament, in July of the month we had on the agenda the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And I was elected to this supervisory board and all the enthusiasm that we originally had we thought we would need to seriously roll up sleeves there and work long-term on changing the situation, I see that now it's falling into the water because de facto this law is abolishing the Croatian Privatisation Fund and we're actually going to have one job one time, and it's that one time only this year something... As soon as we get there and shut down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not against it either, but I'm asking why were we waiting for this supervisory board to be formed in the last session so that we could go to the next session with a new legislative proposal that will be abolished both by the fund and the board of directors? Why didn't we do it before the Supervisory Board had more opportunities to control what was its legal authority? And on the other hand, it turns out that only this was done to fulfill that legal form, so to speak, we named the Supervisory Board he was working on. Therefore, this shows one inconsistency in the management of the assets as well as in this segment. So, I am in favour of passing a quality law on state property management, I expect that those who worked on it most, first of all these two bodies, which I mentioned also the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Central State Property Management Office, say what difficulties were so far in the work, and the normative character is so that they can be incorporated into the law, so that they can change. Because if I just say physical fusion, those two institutions won't get much. The law also deals with units of local self-government which is good and above all about cooperation in the adoption of spatial planning documentation. However, I think it should be maximum precision whether by law or by sublegal law, I don't want to enter in this case now, is the agency the exclusive partner to the units of local self-government when adopting spatial plans or still some other bodies remain? We know that until now, mostly the Ministry of Defence has had to... the spatial planning documents of the units of local self-government, above all, to treat property that is important for the defence of the country. Is this going to be done by the ministry in the future or will the agencies continue to work for everything, that's something that needs to be resolved and that the process doesn't agree, that it's not stalling, because the agencies need to consult with the ministry that or that, so that we lose... I think that this issue should be particularly detailed and a clear procedure should be laid down. What I see in this law as inadequacies is the following. First of all, the strategy that this Assembly would bring is to be put on hold for three years. With us, Parliament's term of office is four years, Government for four years, and we are not even making a strategy for a full term of office. I don't know why three years? Is it like this from your sleeve or is there some important argument why it's been three years and not four? Furthermore, the term of office of members of the board of directors who are 5 years old and are elected on a proposal from the government whose term is 4 years, the mandate of the Agency's administration is 5 years, not 4 years, and in some way corresponds or co-ordinates with the Government its activity with the current government. And I think that it should coordinate the duration of the term of office with the usual 4 years as is less in all other institutions, institutions, not 5 years as proposed here. Otherwise, I think that a much wider option should be to put people's choices in charge of the agency's management. This is where it's supposed to be, I'm going to speak to the old VSS dictionary of legal or economic direction, because why reduce it only in the legal or economic direction. Because we're not taking a legal or economic reference here, we're taking a man who has to be complete who's going to run the whole business. That's why I don't think it's necessary to be a lawyer or an economist, you can take it a lot wider in my opinion. Let it be VSS not to reduce to any particular profession. So, it's good that this law goes into another reading and that what we've heard and what we're going to hear today is that it's still working, it's working, we're going to hear additional arguments. And what I'd like to say in the end, so let's not slave... with optimism, I think if we passed the law I think the situation will be better and that... what we've united the institutions that've been dealing with so far, that's not enough. And how much our systematic relationship to asset management doesn't really change. And, of course, the responsibilities of that agency and its administration should be tied up because it corresponds to the Government and the current Parliament, which is elected by the Government above all to comply with their mandate with the Government and to co-response with the Government whose proposal is being chosen and on whose proposal they contribute to the strategy and to the one-year plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59668	Thank you. We have two replicas, first is the distinguished representative of Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Jelusic. I gave you a replica so you could answer some of my questions. There's a lot of skepticism in your debate about the merger of these three state institutions. I don't have it. I'm sure that merger will contribute to a more transparent management of state property. But I understand why you've had so much skepticism towards this merger. Obviously from experience. You were one of the leading people in the city of Zagreb, i.e. The deputy mayor, when you went to the merger of all the companies in the city of Zagreb in one large branch, is Holding, a mega-enterprise that counts today you say, I know too, counting over 12,000 employees. Well, you see, what happened? What happened today is that Holding is operating at a minus 8 billion kuna. Mr. Jelusic made it clear to me that this Holding is gone, and SDP has managed the city of Zagreb for 11 years, and SDP has participated in the creation of Holding. I understand because you today cannot provide in the city of Zagreb 3 refrigerators for godmothers. This is something that all the cities in the Republic of Croatia have done, obviously the SDP can't even organise. So I heard today from 15.00 hours away, a series of charges of joining these three institutions, and that I heard it from some who have results in management or local units or some other institutions, not, but from you who absolutely have no positive example of managing and managing government in any local unit in the Republic of Croatia. ... [[Speakers speaking in the same voice do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59670	Thank you very much. Your time has run out, Your Honor. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59671	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you obviously didn't listen to me, but even if you did, it's probably not your intention to say what I said. First of all, I volunteered for the replica, but later I saw that I could correct the incorrect assumption. It's not Zagreb's Holding minus 8 billion kuna. Look at the business report for last year, so you'll see, so it's not lost at all, and in particular 8 billion. I'm correcting that. And as for creation, look, I was then to create the Holding as I think it is necessary to do today, but you just didn't listen to me. I say, let's not be supporters of normative optimism, if we think we're a new form of being different. Even with this law. I am for the process of unification... to be in one place, but it doesn't mean if we pass the law unless otherwise we act like something's going to change. And a series of positive effects were made in Holding precisely because it was united. It's not the problems in Holding because he's united, it's because maybe someone didn't do something right. But that's a different story.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59672	Thank you. And another replica, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59673	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Jelusic, you, in your debate, have actually made some remarks in your general support of this bill, which makes you think that there might be problems in the operationalization of this law when it is passed, so that this law could remain only in the aggregate state of the good idea. In person, I would like to add one remark or say that the purpose of this law will not be achieved if, in the central register of state property preceding this law, only the existing data on state property from current records set up in a number of different institutions than the Privatisation Fund itself will be transferred to different ministries. If we want to get an insight into the real state of the state of property, one right to record on the ground, I would say one real, real inventory, because only by such a real inventory can we determine the real state of the property and then carry out an assessment of the market value of that property. Therefore, such an assessment should be carried out by independent experts and only in this way will this State have real and complete data and real insight into the assets it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59674	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on state property management. I would say for this law that I do not look for what was yesterday because it is clear that the holder of ownership in the Republic of Croatia is more of a title of ownership of state property owned by the Republic of Croatia which is owned by the Central State Office for the Management of State Property, which is owned by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Croatian Employment Office, the Capital Fund, the Croatian Pension Investment Insurance. The intensity of this law is, above all, more transparent and effective management of state property, that all of this state property that has so far had more owners of ownership is reduced to one agency that will manage state property more efficiently, more transparently and clearly. If we did not question the good intentions of the legislator and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would point out in particular that this law came as a proposal when we adopted measures for the economic recovery programme in the Republic of Croatia and I believe that this law for the establishment of an agency that would unite the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Central State Office for State Property Management and the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. In addition to the issues concerning housing, we see it as an extremely important law and as necessary because, finally, in this large number of titles of ownership, in a large number of regulations, it will make order and introduce effective management of state property. It is of interest both to the Republic of Croatia and to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's property that belongs to all the citizens of this country. So when this agency works, this is the first reading of this bill, all those mechanisms and all those criteria that we overlooked in this bill, and if we don't think about it tomorrow, if we look at what happened yesterday, then we can find a lot of negativity and bad examples. So only once in 2000 did the government transfer 200 companies to the Croatian Privatisation Fund to manage shares and assets. And there we can find a mass of mistakes and examples. If we do not look for tomorrow, if we do not see how our country will manage within the framework of the European Union countries, we will do nothing. I have no doubt, no mistrust under this bill, no doubt that all this is proposed by the Agency for the Management of State Property is positive for the Republic of Croatia, and above all for citizens who have given us the confidence to manage state property. I support and welcome the establishment of a central register of state property, which will therefore be shared on the register of real estate and the register of commercial companies, and that everything will be transparently indicated that the bill says that everything will be publicly available to citizens at any moment of the insight into what the agency is doing. I consider the positive highlighted principles, the principle of public governance of state property, the principle of predictability of state property management, the principle of efficiency of asset management and the principle of responsibility. That's something we've never seen in our proposals before. This is extremely positive and I particularly commend the legislator in this. In this bill of law that we have discussed on the Committees on Law and Justice, those shortcomings should be introduced, nomotechnically above all, and this issue of harmonisation with the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land which has not been assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation, in order to correct it until the second reading in order to have a clean legislative proposal. This is all we've heard today I think it's good to discuss, but I don't see any reason for mistrust. I fully support the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I consider this one of the same key laws, with all the measures that we have brought here in the Croatian Parliament, and I think the future will show what we are doing here today, and we should leave the past to those who live in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59676	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59677	My colleague Salapic, I can in principle agree with your debate and colleagues who participated in the SDP club also discussed the lead. But the real question is, of course, we all support transparency in registering and registering state assets and state-owned companies, but the real question is why there was no such thing before. After this privatisation, after a wild privatisation, after a lot of it has gone untransparently and sold and privatized, we are now introducing registers that I personally support. But the real question is why it hasn't been done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59678	Replica reply, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59679	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Sparrow, it's like a question to me what would be if it were, which would be. We believe that this bill will bring all state property that has so far been divided into several titleholders of ownership gathered in one mass, in an agency that will manage the property will gain better insight, more transparency and more effective for managing state property. What was yesterday, from 2000 to 2003, when the government ruled, when I said 200 companies were transferred to the Croatian Stock Management Privatisation Fund could have changed a lot in those three, four years that you considered it necessary to change. I think it is never too late for good laws, especially today when we are at the door of the European Union. What, if something wasn't good and transparent, will definitely be done in certain institutions and ways to explore if it's wrong, and what's good will show the future. And I think we both agree that this bill is very welcome and that we should not turn to yesterday but to tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59680	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. Dear Representative Dragan Kovacevic is coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I also think that today's debate, regardless of where the club of representatives is headed, is going towards supporting such a law and this approach to finally be in the Republic of Croatia and register property, so everything that enters that property, but also that this property begins to be managed more effectively. So having it all in one place is sure to mean in the future both cheaper and more productive, but also what everyone expects and more transparent. It is certain, first of all, that the property needs to be recorded in quality, that the fact that it is not currently recorded is the consequence of various and circumstances, but also the fact that it was not well followed by land books, etc., but it must be recorded in order to even be strategically thought about it. It is also important that this strategy, which has been adopted, is stated that it would be in some three years if the strategy had its operational programmes, therefore whether one year or a shorter period. Why is the strategy important? From the fact that it is not only property to be sold but it is property that will be acquired in some way by the Republic of Croatia. We also had examples when it comes to companies, when it comes to shares and equity, that they have been returning to us unsolicitedly, in the form of some kind of ownership I would say leftovers, shares that have not been paid, shares that have not been paid back, so simply by force the opportunities have been returned to the portfolio of the state. Therefore, the strategy must come up with a methodology and way of managing these and portfolios and complete assets. What is an important sentence in the preamble where it stands, that all this is done and what is intended to be done by this law, so it is also in the function of the economic development of the state, and that we have also discussed on the Assembly Committee on Economy whether or not something can be done for these sales to be at the hands of entrepreneurs that, as soon as possible, those assets that are currently possible are in the weeds. So to put it into production as soon as possible and, as we do for example in these economic areas, we give free utility, we release certain givings. So, local self-government almost free of charge provides these production facilities, production sites, that something similar is made with these properties owned by the Republic of Croatia not in the sense of giving, giving, giving, giving, giving, invaluable, but that with these quality entrepreneurship projects it is given certain priorities and bonuses in these tender procedures and that we actually observe the property more in terms of its economic significance and putting into economic function than as a property I do not know which is sold for the construction of residential buildings or for the apartment and something like that. So, to see if these can already be started in these tender procedures to realize certain benefits in order to make these objects that I say today very often lie... In the weeds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, to be put into the function of economic development. What's mine is kind of an observation about this law, which should certainly be considered from a second reading. It's a matter of the administrative council. So here in Article 16 of the Law, it says: "The Governing Council consists of nine members. He's got his president, he's got his deputy." This administrative council shall take decisions on the sale or decision on the management of that property. The Governing Council will sit as independent experts are proposed here. But a fundamental question arises. We have so far been in the law when it comes to ownership, at least what we have clearly regulated. So far, we have been prescribed in the law that a college fund makes decisions on the sale of shares up to 10 million kunas, the administrative council up to 100 million kunas, and over 100 million kunas by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And now hundreds of millions of kunas are being given to the management of the board of independent experts. I think that the minimum below which we can not go to be members of that Governing Council to be ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia not only because of the gravity of the decision, not only because of these enormous amounts involved but also because the sale of shares is not only a sale, but also because it is in some way also the conduct of some kind of economic policy. Therefore, I think that the enormous responsibility on this is the administrative council of nine independent experts who would make the decisions of a heavy 100, 200 million kuna. So far, it has been done by ministers, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so as members of the board of directors. But I'm saying, not only within the sale of this property, but we have here and under the Privatisation Act, it says in the selection of the most favourable offer, the College of the Fund, the Management Board of the Fund and the Government will implement the privatisation objectives, and here it says: preserving productive jobs, new investment in businesses, technological modernisation, financial and technological seriousness of the buyer, encouraging investment in evicted Croatia, encouraging the development of Croatian entrepreneurship. So here it is through this article 7. The Law on Privatisation actually defined the role of the Administrative Council, the College, that is, the Administrative Committee, the College and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It means that he is also conducting the country's economic policy through that sale. So I think one huge weight and one huge burden of responsibility to nine so-called. independent experts. And I say, what needs to be considered is that, in the governing council of such an important institution that manages such a huge wealth, which in some ways must also lead the country's economic development policy that there must be persons who already have and are in a system of responsibility. As far as the other provisions of the law are concerned, it is certain that, given the principle of certain provisions, you will have to have a lot to say about sublegal acts, regulations, etc. which will, however, have to be more precisely regulated by the conduct of this law, and in particular, these modes of decision-making and decision-making, how to conduct tenders, how to achieve these certain discounts that must surely be done in order to manage the country's economic policy in some way and through these sales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59682	Thank you. We also have one replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59683	My colleague Kovacevic encouraged me to actually set a practical example. In fact, we Zagorci don't exactly have a state grant, so this law has not touched us in particular. But we have other problems that will now have a common institution. In fact, we're making some things difficult for the institutions. For example, the city of Zaboka, where a collector was built, a water well, a public water company, was well owned by the ministry, the ministry handed over the land instead of the city of Zabok, now handed it over to the Central State Office for the Management of State Property, which is likely to get caught then assigned to us. I think it should be in such situations, and it is about land passing the economic zone and it is important for the construction of an economic facility to solve and ways where it is not about sales, where it is not about some other transaction, but it is about the speed and efficiency of the conduct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59684	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59685	Thank you very much. So you're absolutely on that trail of my exposure, so what I'm saying is that this new institution, so it's certain that it's going to have to be kept in mind that certain properties, certain assets, as soon as they become operational means of the economy, as soon as they become entrepreneurship projects and that through this methodology that needs to be contained primarily in these sublegal acts in various procedures, and, in part, in the strategy, they need things to be put in place by removing all those obstacles, all those administrative barriers, all those time barriers, so that they're blocking certain projects. And this fact that everything should be in one place and recorded and coordinated and managed should help to ensure that there is no more walking of this procedure, that there is no more walking of this paperwork, but that in one place it is decided and I think that these decisions will also be more rational and in some way both for the benefit of the state budget and for the benefit of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59686	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59687	Thank you, Vice President. I really won't be longer, given that in previous discussions a lot of what I actually wanted to say was said. I want to say that I'm going to vote, I'm going to support this bill in my first reading, I think it's a good thing that all these things are united in one agency and that a central register is finally established, but I hope that the register will not serve the rulings just to see what the state has to do to sell out the family silver we have in place before the election. Let's hope that won't be the case. Otherwise, as far as the law itself is concerned, I do not have any major objections to it, but I think it should, perhaps, mean the legislator of the law to win and a certain argument, which is why they are not in the very agency that will manage this state property included those, that property of the state concerned means agricultural land and forest land, which are still under the jurisdiction of Croatian forests and the Agency for Agricultural Land which is still as far as I know it has not been brought back to life, and which, ultimately, we had to change the Law on Agricultural Land and I think that this is a very big problem, because it is a really huge property that lies in state-owned forests and means land that it is agricultural, so if you could explain why, when this law was created, it was not considered and that this property is also being placed in some way under the central register, so that we would really see one place where the state is really exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59688	Thank you. It's our guest, Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59689	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The purpose of this bill is well-intentioned in order to raise efficiency in the management of state property, and that is something that needs to be supported, and because of this good intention I will also support this bill, although I also have large reserves of what effects will be realistically achieved by it. In fact, the question is, what were the main reasons for the ineffectiveness so far? They were not within some legal limit, but in the nature and manner of doing business. It is certain that all the assets available to the state should be put into function of development, but the question arises why the good part of that property has not been in the development function so far. For example, there are numerous tourist complexes on the Adriatic that have remained ruins since the war, such as an example of a building in Kutari, which is not in development function, which could, should be and should certainly provide an opportunity for many people living in the area to find jobs in it, and it would also improve the tourist offer and income. We know it's an object that's been under the management of the Department of Defense, I can understand that there are problems that last a year, a year and a half, about making decisions about what with some object, but it can't last 15 years since the war. So if some decision is not made 15 years from the war, and some object may be in function of development, then the problem is obviously in the decision-making system, specifically in politics. It is through one such agency, which will manage state property, that is largely managed by state development. So she has a strong impact on development. And that is why it is unusually important that there is a policy and strategy for the use of such an institution to lead towards development. Of course, the policy is that, the government and the ministries that must create this development, and whether it has been used well enough, whether there was a strategy at all, is obviously not adequate. When it comes to the Central State Office for State Property Management, as it has so far worked, all units of local administrations and self-government, so cities, municipalities, when they wanted to launch some projects, should always have received some consent from the institution. But there was one problem in all of them, we can't contact them at all, there's no one answering the phone, because the suppression of the office's objects was such that it was actually the brakes of economic growth and development through the launch of numerous projects that initiated and pushed municipalities and cities. So the question is, in fact, how to raise its efficiency, will physical unification in one institution solve it in itself? He won't. It is necessary to design an entire model that will raise the efficiency of such an institution. That problems don't happen to be solved, or objects, for years because the office itself is overloaded. There are enough unemployed who can engage in these jobs if that is the problem, but if it is not, then policy must ensure an institutional decision-making system that is faster and through which to ensure faster development. It is precisely when it comes to the administrative council that Kovačević spoke about earlier that it is doubtful whether independent experts who will now be members of the board can ensure faster decision-making through one such system or just the opposite. Is that how the state got or lost on efficiency? I'm afraid and I personally think she lost. And here I support the earlier debate that ministers should be the ones sitting on the board of such an institution. Because that's the possibility of an impact on development. If we slow our own actions through independent experts who can have different concepts, but without a single political concept defined by the Government, then the entire agency will be inefficient and we will not again have the kind of development we should have through the assets, which must be in the development and employment function. There are, of course, many good wishes about the establishment of one of these institutions that will reduce, so I would say a little while ago, a model of walking paperwork. It will not happen on its own unless the decision-making system is changed. But something I would particularly like to warn about, therefore these two institutions, the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Central State Office for State Property Management so far have been, in particular, the brakes of Croatia's economic development for the past year. Because it has just been political conflict and pressures against state-owned companies and the idea that political and business decisions can be criminalised that it has actually stopped decision-making in these institutions and employees no longer dare make a decision but are looking for a way and a model to avoid making decisions. And, of course, it stalls the whole process of making any decision to put some property into a development function, afraid that someone will then call them favors someone, so of course there are criminal proceedings, arrests, and I don't know what. This situation in society has actually blocked the entire state administration. And she's the brakes of development today. And the responsibility of politics is both here in Parliament and in parties to change such an atmosphere. As long as it exists, there is no serious economic development. And in that sense, in the end, I want to say in a sign of goodwill and a desire that something will change, I will support this proposal, but the HSP will support it, although we warn of the fact that by unifying itself, nothing concrete can be solved. The institution must be strengthened, and the decision-making system must be accelerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59690	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59691	Thank you very much. Mr. Srb, you mentioned Coopers, of course, that privatisation is needed as soon as possible because it is worth about 200 million euros, but privatisation should certainly require that at least roads be registered as a public good, i.e. owned by the state in order not to create closed complexes which are unfortunately created during various previous privatisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59692	Replica response, distinguished representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59693	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. Of course, the intensity must be to put into function not only of these ruins of tourist facilities, which even exists in those parts of Croatia where there was no war, such as Haludovo on Krk, which also became a ruins, and it would have to be the generator of the development of an entire island. And the question is, does it actually introduce any new taxes and impose on unused tourist facilities that would force owners to put them into office as soon as possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59694	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, and we have the guest, Goran Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since it is in my opinion about one of the most important laws in the Republic of Croatia, I have decided to share a few comments, suggestions and considerations with the promoter. It is doubtless the state property is the biggest potential of the Republic of Croatia. The biggest economic potential on which the future of all of us in Croatia depends, depending on both economic growth and employment and unemployment, on which the future of the Republic of Croatia depends. How are we going to manage state property directly forms the life path of our homeland. A few suggestions. Article 8 is said to be adopted within a period of at least 3 years. My recommendation if it's a strategy then it takes a little longer, then it should, in my opinion, be a minimum of five years. Article 14 states that the Agency is obliged to draw up a financial plan for each business year. I think it would be good if it were to develop a business plan of activity and a financial plan with a deadline until both plans were drawn up. Article 18 discusses the conditions for all to be a member of the Governing Council. Given that the administrative board and administration are, in my opinion, one of the most responsible bodies in the Republic of Croatia of all institutions here, we need to be very careful when we talk about conditions for members of the Board of Directors and I think it is not a good idea to even a professional study with a university study. It's not good and there's no point in equating high school with college. And that's not good because they're different programs, the structure of the program isn't the same, they're not the same structure of the students, and neither is the structure of the lecturers. I can speak personally of one and the other because I teach mostly high schools selected for teaching, and at universities chosen for scientific teaching. I've been elected personally to the highest-ranking high school teacher, and to a university doctor, but I'm still saying it can't be evened out. And in my opinion, they shouldn't be here if they could be in the board of directors who finished their studies. Professional studies and business schools have their place on the market, they have places in the economy, but the helpers have no place in such administrative councils and administrations such as the most demanding institutions, one of the most demanding. I would therefore suggest that it be in Article 18 to be a graduate university study and that it has at least 10 years of working experience of persons after completing a university study. Not total, but work experience after a university study. As regards the term of office of the period of Article 19, they may be re-elected. I would suggest that I can re-choose, of course, but not a limited number of times. It is not good that a state institution, one of the most responsible, manages for 30 years, and this proposal could be. I think it would be useful to limit it to two terms of office, 5 years are foreseen here, although the majority of the mandate in Croatia is 4 years, so you should consider that they may be four years old and that they have re-election once, rather than unlimited. There are several spelling mistakes, so I'd like to pray that the futur is not written with and, it will resolve, but it will resolve, because you write it very often incorrectly, so I'd like to ask you to correct it. It's not based, it's based. But I don't want to talk about grammar anymore. As regards the administration of Article 23(3), it is said that the manner of representation of the Agency is determined by the statute of the Agency, but there is no law on who adopts the statutes and who adopts it and when it is adopted and within what time period, so I would propose to determine who adopts the statutes, when and in which... the statute will be adopted. Article 24. Conditions for the appointment of administrations, as well as for members of the Board of Directors, means that the part which is always placed in pre-graduate studies is deleted, rather than exclusively to be a university study, rather than any vocational or business school. It's also to think that not all studies are limited, I personally think dentists should fix teeth, doctors should treat people, and in the economy, those who are educated and educated. So the more we focus on the efficiency of this institution, because it really has a responsible task. I would also suggest that it be 4 years in the term of office as well as in the administrative council and that it may have one more term of office, not unlimited. As regards Article 45, it is said that in one case, not to read the full article must be assessed by the person who has the approval to carry out consulting activities in the capital structure. I know this is prescribed by one Capital Market Act, but I don't think it's a good thing that this person who's authorized to be counseling is, but that's what an authorised audit firm does. Article 43 of the Register of State Property, I think it would be very good if both the deadline and the update, as well as the accounting, and the traffic and useful value of real estate and property stood. In Article 44, it states that shares, shares, and rights that are not assessed, are not fully assessed. I think this is about a type of feller or some confusion, because shares and shares do not make up the underlying capital nor can they be estimated at the value of the underlying capital, so obviously it's a big misunderstanding. And in the end, the agency has the right to the monetary equivalent of that property, if someone entered into the property as the owner of whom it did not enter the fundamental capital of society. If someone signed up as the owner, then he illegally became the owner. Then we can't determine that it could possibly belong to the monetary equivalent of that property. He just can't be the owner unless he's legally acquired that property. I think this formulation would actually be a silent recognition of illegal property or illegal property. It's a very common case that the state doesn't have, just before I spoke, information that all the assets are available in the companies, and they haven't entered the underlying capital, and the state has no information about it. I think it would be good to install into this law to determine the time limits and sanctions for those who do not deliver a list of properties or parts of property that use 20 or something similar years without entering the underlying capital. Because that's the only way the agency can get information about real estate in this case. In another way simply, these companies are not even required to deliver. Although it does not enter this law but it is important to stress that maritime well-being is also a state property, so very often maritime good is abused by opening catering facilities without concession, without anything. This bill of law is indeed an enormous assumption for a solid foundation that we can determine our future in the future and that we can be able to create assumptions that we can be proud of how we will manage state property, which, unfortunately, we cannot be too proud of so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59696	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59697	You say a colleague and you rightly wonder how it could possibly become the owner of a property that hasn't entered and held for years, now for 20 years without any compensation they haven't entered the underlying capital and that this law, which it mentions, could indirectly mean the recognition of that property, without grounds. However, there is no need to be surprised. We have brought here the Law on Tourism Land for which HDZ has voted, we have been against this law for the very reason why instead of punishing them why you plead to these people and those legal persons who for years, without any compensation, held property that by the letter of the law is not theirs or could become theirs. We passed the law, instead of punishing them, we kindly handed it over to them. Just because we haven't seen them before, we haven't even apologized for not doing this to them before. It probably even affected them because their property is still binding, so they were freed from all that they had and enjoyed and drew from that gain. Likewise, when you mention the acts here and mention the statutes of the agency, it should also be noted that it would not be good, so here are the proposings, so that the Agency's acts would also establish the salaries of the members of the administration. I don't think that's good, although the general rules on work are also mentioned, but they don't determine pay but general working conditions, reception and all those on work, those other rules of the fundamentals that this law, the Law of Labour determines. I think the coefficients should be determined by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59698	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59699	Thank you very much. My colleague Antičević, I wasn't surprised how someone could become the owner. I merely expressed concern that it was not good for someone to become the owner, without really buying it or having entered into the core capital of that company that he owns. But that is why municipal courts and land books are responsible, which were carried out in a book without credible documents. Only a solution to the real estate statement was the basis for enrollment of ownership in the process of conversion and privatisation, and municipal courts also recorded on the basis of something else. And my proposal and suggestion is to protect the state in such cases, to take advantage of this opportunity, this legal framework not to recognise such a thing but to create a legal obligation to return those properties or those properties to the property of the Republic of Croatia or the agency that will be the holder of these rights under this law. As far as the statutes are concerned, I agree that the acts should not determine the height of the salary but rather be determined by a specific decision, not by a statute or by some other act of the institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59700	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. It is next to the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard, this law proposes the creation of a State Property Management Agency which would also replace the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Central State Property Management Office. The merger of funds and the central office would result, as we have heard, in better governance of state assets, in greater value of state assets with lower operating costs and in equal management, which has not been the case so far. It is foreseen just as the law also proposes to adopt a three-year management strategy by the Croatian Parliament for the government to adopt the Annual Management Plan for the property, which would be an operational plan, and its achievement would be presented each year by the agency to both the Government and the Croatian Parliament. The basic coverage of this law is in the form of ownership stakes in commercial societies and property that are entered in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry and the Croatian Privatisation Fund and part of the institutions and agencies which are founded by the Republic of Croatia, and through the debate we heard so we won't list them again. This property is managed by the Central State Office for State Property Management for the one entered in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Fund entered into the Croatian Privatisation Fund and for the assets of other state institutions with which the Croatian Privatisation Fund has management contracts. Long-term management is unsustainable, as we have also heard, because it is not unique and has no management strategy, so mainly these assets are sold to cover the costs of the institution's work. This law opens up the possibility of creating a full list of state assets and we all agreed that this list of state assets is very important, just as it would be important and its standardisation. It includes actually a systematic record of the total state property with a purpose review, also a very important dimension in that register, and also determines the proper management of that property. It also foresees the establishment and keeping of a central register that it would share, so it would distinguish real estate and companies and would be clearly accessible to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It would also address the issues of public property usurpation by unauthorized persons and would also be simpler to establish the property that is not assessed in the process of converting social property. This would also improve some available models and enable larger investment projects and thus improve the investment climate. It should also be said that the agency will make part of the contributions it has to make to wartime wartime wartime combatants, which depends on the degree of their disability and the families of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Here are the members of the War Veterans Committee who expressed their satisfaction by continuing to allocate shares from the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, or agencies to the victims, and stressed the need for this process to be resolved more quickly, in fact, to deal with those items that are still waiting for that solution. This law is here in the end I would like to say that it is actually part of the Government of Croatia's programme for this current term of office, i.e. The program that the government has adopted and is actually responsible for acting in a way that wants to fulfil this obligation, so I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59702	Thank you. We are continuing to discuss the individual, and it is our turn to honor the representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59703	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I would like to point out one point that has not been discussed here, and I must say that there is nothing concrete in the bill, and that is one special moment, which is related to the dislocation of any of that office, or part of the office in the regional centres. In fact, on the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, we have discussed this in quite a bit, and then the proposing representative gave the answer in that sense that the issue of the Agency's office outside the Agency's headquarters could be arranged by the statute of the Agency, so I advocate that we make it a little more concrete if possible in law, that it be an obligation. And in any case, think about it and something concrete is done. Compared to what my colleague said from Zagorje, I can only say, explain this to the example of the Baranja triangle where the situation is just reversed. Before the war, social property now became state-owned over 70% of the area. Then you can imagine that it is impossible to realise any more serious project there were roads, waterways, sewerage, or even no-gost without encountering a single particle that is owned by the Republic of Croatia. And now that you start to solve this, if there is still a need for some agreement between the Croatian forests, the water industry, the electricity, etc. etc. I can confirm that from practice, then I can commend the workers to you best wishes. I've got a lot of contact with them in that current office, next to your best wishes doesn't kill you half a year or six months just to get that paper to get you later on construction permit. What my colleague Srb was talking about, I don't want to repeat it, but I can only support it with that example. Of course, perhaps this could be resolved by the availability of this state property to a certain lower level. Here I think, above all, only Osijek, Rijeka and Split not to every major city, and when this would be resolved at that level, we could probably gain transparency. Because in that part, however, people know better both in the municipalities and at the level of these county opportunities. And it is hard to understand that in this time of computer and computer that it cannot be combined into one unique system and that it does not have to be by local self-government both from Dubrovnik and from the White Manastir for the smallest little thing, for the smallest paper to travel to Zagreb to solve something. I think that's what I'm asking you to actually try to install something concrete to facilitate work, to help these rural environments in relation to the availability of that state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59704	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59705	You are well aware of this social property parallel which, of course, new business conditions have passed and become state property. However, adequate did not monitor the protection of this state property. We then had the criminal act of illegal exploitation of the mining goods and the illegal occupation of property in social property. When society was abolished, no one was protecting the state. We didn't have any more criminal legal protection. It is only 2001 that we reintroduce the criminal act of illegal exploitation of the mine treasure. By then, an unlimited amount and amount could have been exploited ore treasure, but unfortunately, even worse, and I think it would have contributed a lot to this one, but it is now our job not now of these proposings here in amending the Penal Code to reintroduce the criminal act that once existed in our legal system - the illegal occupation of state-owned property.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59706	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59707	Just two three words. I think the point I was talking about would be if it were to decentralisedly help solve this problem, because it would be far more transparent, and I agree that these regulations have to be harmonised in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59708	Thank you. Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. We've been listening very closely to a colleague from the Privatisation Fund, and I've been listening to all of you. We all know that this is the first reading and that the second reading follows. I am truly telling you that in preparation and consideration, we will take into account all objections and suggestions and try to classify and adopt all those that are meaningful and that will contribute to the improvement and make this law even more effective. Thank you very much for all the useful suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59710	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59711	Let's move on. We are going to vote on agenda points. Thank you very much. We move on to the proposal for a law on state property management, first reading, P.Z. No. 597. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a law on state property management and secondly, all proposals, objections and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. We're going to have to count Mr. Andric specifically because something's wrong with the key, so we're going to consider it. Score. This conclusion was adopted by a majority vote of 108 plus 1, 109 votes and 1 abstention and 3 against. The Committee on War Veterans proposes to the Croatian Assembly to conclude: The Privatisation Fund is committed, or the Agency for the Management of State Property, to find a more effective way and to speed up the process of assigning shares to victims of the Homeland War. I am voting on the next proposed conclusion. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. Score. This proposal for a conclusion was reached unanimously with 110 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59712	We move to the fourth item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 599. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Think of the proposal in the mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Krešimir Rogman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59713	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. Therefore, these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds aim to fully comply with this law, i.e. these regulations with the 2003 Directive. 41 The European Parliament and the Council of 3 June 2003 on the activities and supervision of institutions for the provision of pension insurance services to employees, which concerns pension funds, which are the sponsors of employers, are those closed voluntary funds, whose operations are governed by this law. By adopting this law, the operations of closed pension funds will therefore be brought into line with the legal property of the European Union, otherwise this is an obligation under Chapter 9 of the Financial Service, i.e. to reduce the cap on investment of those funds and create conditions for their cross-border activities. So by joining the European Union, because these amendments relating to harmonisation with the Directive will apply after Croatia's accession to the European Union, the sponsors of closed pension funds in the Republic of Croatia will be able to choose fund managers and custodians from other Member States, and the pension fund management company and financial institutions carrying out custody activities, based in the Republic of Croatia, will also be able to offer their services to the sponsors of closed pension funds in other Member States. So what's really changing with this law? More specifically, the definition of the term closed pension fund in another Member State, the home Member State, host Member State, closed pension fund with defined incomes, the competent authority of the custodian, biometric exit, etc. is therefore defined by those terms in accordance with that Directive. The activities of the pension company established in the Republic of Croatia, in providing management services to the closed pension fund for sponsors in the Member States of the European Union, and the cooperation of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency with the competent authority of the host Member State in the supervision of the pension society, shall be further regulated by the activities of the pension society established in the Member State, in providing management services to the closed pension fund for sponsors in the Republic of Croatia, and the cooperation of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency with the competent authority of the home Member State. Financial institutions in other Member States which are able to manage closed pension funds are defined, the procedure for calling an authorised pension fund manager shall be amended, the conditions for the withdrawal of a voluntary pension society’s authorisation should the provisions of legislation governing the work and social security of the host Member State be defined, the obligation of a voluntary pension society to issue a participation document to members of the fund once a year, in particular the restrictions on the investment of closed pension funds and closed pension funds with defined incomes shall be established, restrictions shall be imposed on one person in the investment of pension funds in derivatives, the custodian of the closed pension fund shall be defined in accordance with that Directive, the payment of funds to a member of a voluntary pension fund at the end of membership if the fund is less than 10 thousand kuna, the data and information managed by the closed pension fund shall be determined. Finally, the obligations of a pension society which, for the needs of employers in Member States, allow for the recording of pension funds with defined incomes are determined, managed by that type of pension funds. So that's what compliance with that directive is all about. But other than that part, there are two more amendments to the law. One refers to some minor legal, nomotechnical adjustments, and the other refers to incentives for a third, so a voluntary pension column that would reduce the incentive funds, now it is 25% to stakes, but the highest to the stakes of 5 thousand kuna per year per member of the fund, and now these incentives would be reduced to 15%. In this way there will be savings in 2011, from just over 20 million kuna,... 20 million 772 thousand, and in the tenth year, that would be a little over 18 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]] At the same time, provisions on the supervision of the Ministry of Finance of Implementation are being made, over the supervision of these funds to be given. Therefore, this amendment to the law proposed under the emergency procedure, as it is in the process of harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, will fully align the business of closed pension funds with the acquis, i.e. with the legal gain of the European Union, and what I have said and in accordance with the amendments to the tax rules, i.e. to reduce these incentives for payments to voluntary pension funds. In doing so, I just have to point out that it also has to do with the law, amendments and additions of the Income Tax Act, where it is already adopted that, where untaxable giving by employers is introduced, they are closed, closed and opened, and mainly in practice for the closed third pension column of 500 kuna per month per worker, so no more than 6 thousand kuna per year, so those two measures concerning the reduction of incentives should be seen in the set, although this is not the same measure, have the same objective. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59714	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59715	I apologize. Here's a lack of experience. If I may, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59717	Excuse me. Therefore, the Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment to Article 10, of course amendments are legal technical. The amendment shall be adopted in accordance with Article 10. Article 10. should also be added to the words: "A new paragraph 2 is added, which reads – the current paragraph 4 becomes paragraph 5." So it's just a technical change.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59718	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59719	Sustained, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59720	So you accept all amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59721	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59722	But thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59723	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59724	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up first. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59725	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, gentlemen, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here in the last few days we've had opportunities to discuss different aspects and different occasions of changes within the pension system. As with boredom and now I would like to say that we are very reluctant to accept the lightly promised change and speed within that system simply because the consequences are always far-reaching, long-term and they always, even when they mean a certain improvement, mean the introduction of uncertainty into a system that is almost primary to trust and stability. It is not good to change simply pension laws, in particular it is not good to change them unless all necessary calculations are made, as far as possible to assess the different effects of the measures proposed, which are adopted. The SDP will not be against this law, primarily because the changes that are proposed in the most part really need to happen if we want to bring this part of our legislation in line with European legislation, and there it is, visible from the materials that we have received, done a big and extensive job. It is a very complex relationship within the various financial institutions in a system that has existed within Europe for decades in which we have little experience and certainly this adjustment to European norms and European laws is simply a prerequisite that we can function normally when the labour market within the EU is opened and when it must be possible for all citizens of Europe to feel in Croatia as well as in other EU countries in no way denied in achieving their rights as well as pension rights. So, it's not all too controversial and I'm not going in any way to refer to that kind of adjustment because it seems to me that they are quite serious and seriously prepared as it is seen from the table itself, and the seal is struck, which tells me that the law is fully in line with European norms. What is there to talk about anyway, and what does it require for a certain amount of seriousness? This is about reducing the incentives the state gives from 25% to 15% on third-degree pension savings. Is that the best solution? We didn't get too many convincing arguments, nor did the bill show any calculations, and here we heard the secretary of state just a moment the only argument was a reduction of 18, or 20 million kuna of budget money for that kind of incentive. This does not seem to me to be a serious enough argument, and especially not by an argument enough that we should be able to easily agree to this amendment and this reduction of incentives. Why? It's simply because the data says that at this point in retirement is globally 22 billion dollars in the world, 22 billion dollars in pension savings in the world, and in nine years, it's going to be about $36 billion. Which means a 66% increase in the next nine years. These data are undoubtedly globally, at a time of serious financial disturbances and crises, saying that pension savings and such a form of savings are in fact shown not only as something that should be encouraged and stimulated but in most countries it is shown to be the most important factor of the stability of certain financial systems in European countries, especially in the United States, which is being lost by half of the pension savings of those $22 billion. If that's how it is out there, there's no reason it shouldn't be here. Savings, any form of savings, in the country, now to socialize a little bit, in a country where we have every generation that has lived in another country where there has been nothing, in which everything is subject to change, in which nothing lasts for more than 20 years, in which every so many years and war, in such a country, it is so important to encourage something that has long-termness, which has stability and something that is focused on the future. A month or 15 days ago, the prime minister said something that is essentially very true. Not to plan for 15 days in Croatia, let alone 15 years. Well, it's time for serious politics to start thinking about the time after 15 years. When it comes to the pension insurance system, it's, I'd say, imperative. In fact, then you have to think about 15, 20, 30 years in advance, not what's going to happen tomorrow or next year. And I can't have budget reasons ahead of those reasons. Then it's imperative here. We do not think that next year we will have 18 million kunas more in the budget than we are going to provide what we want to ensure, which is the social security of people in the future, and consequently I am telling you that is the greatest factor in the stability of the financial systems and the liquidity of the country as the financial effects will be for the country. When we introduced pension reform and the second and third pillars, then one of our objectives or one of the key arguments for the introduction of that reform was, in addition to this aspect of social security, that the accumulated funds within the second and third pillars that are invested to serve as generators, as agents, drivers of economic development in the country and should be allowed to mean that the money invested and fertilised and increased for future pensions, but that it is now serving as an initial capital that can be done in a well-organised country that has a vision and has smart investors. This law allows as good as possible, allowing our pension funds to correspond significantly more to different segments, aspects with pension funds and through management but also through the possibility of a more liberal system of investment with pension funds in other European countries. That's good, that's encouraging, and that's the key reason why we're gonna support that law. But this is something to think about. If you had analyzed your respected colleagues more closely, you would have seen that most European countries actually do not know the Institute of Incentives to pension savings, or even housing savings, but knows another institute that we unfortunately left on July 1st of this year, which is tax relief. If we had kept our tax reliefs, it would have been much easier to accept the reduction of these incentives from 25% to 15%, although they are limited and someone thinks it's 15% to total savings. It wasn't just the first year, 25% of next year's percentage was shrinking. Of course, because the limit of that incentive is set. It may be much smarter and better to stimulate people both in housing and in life insurance, especially in pension savings, because I say benefits are multiple not only for the individual but also for the state. As a matter of fact, the state doesn't give anything anymore. Since the moment they receive a third-degree pension, they will pay taxes on it. It's not gonna be anything but that money we're giving through the incentive right now. That's all it's gonna be. In other words, we're leaving the system of any incentive, any real, real fostering pension savings. I am not sure that this is a smart job, and I regret that in the moments when the tax relief was lifted, the good practice of European countries that did not end when it comes to voluntary pension savings was also not taken into account. At this point, you might as an argument, maybe you won't say it as an argument, but you should think about it, 171,000 people are saving in the third pillar. Compared to a million and a half of those in the second pillar, that's almost 10 times smaller. Of those 171 thousand, 17 thousand are in closed societies, and the other 151,000 are in open societies. A formal objection that could be made from the point of view of social justice and solidarity could be said that these 150 thousand are still better-standing citizens. Those who have a little better wages and a little better employers who pay for them. That's why, as a socialist, I wouldn't give my head if it had to be strictly convenient for them and that they needed to be encouraged. But there should be ways for those who earn less and who work in other companies to be more. So the state has mechanisms, there are ways to stimulate third-degree savings, pension savings. We have to tell the citizens it can significantly improve the pension, because from the first and second pillars of 10, 15 or 20 years, too many pensions cannot be expected, especially in a situation where for 5 years already, the percentage of the contribution rate for the second pension column, which was scheduled to start at 5% and to increase 1% annually by 2007 or the eighth year, we should have reached 10% of the total contribution for pension insurance. We just now at 5%, can't expect decent pensions from that second pillar, if it remains that way, especially for those pensioners who chose between 40 and 50, who will save a little money for a short time, a little money will have been saved, and at this point they are still retired, taken away from retirement completely unconstitutional, taken away because they still pay two-thirds, 75% are paid in the first pension column, 5% are paid in the second pension, so two-thirds are paid first, and they don't have a 1% of the supplements that only get those in the first pension column. It's an injustice to these people. They don't have a great future, low payments, short payment time, that means they won't have a first or second pillar. If we don't stimulate them to save in the third pension column, in 20 years or 10 or 15 we hope that most of us will be alive, we will have the opportunity to see a new drama of an additionally complicated social situation for those people of older age. So once again, gentlemen, please play very carefully with those numbers. Change, rather not invest in a road, don't play too much with the pension system, give him stability, give him safety. And when something changes, then it takes a long, long time to prepare, analyze and, of course, get support for both the profession and the general public for what is proposed. We won't object, but chill a little when it comes to the pension system and the amendments to those laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59726	Thank you. It's next, the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU. What? Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59727	I would only correct my colleague Vidovic's incorrect quote where he said that the prime minister said that nothing was planned in Croatia for 15 days, let alone longer. No, she did not say so, she said that we must learn to plan in Croatia, not that, because on the other hand, the economic recovery programme is proof that they are still being planned, certain reforms are being planned, certain development programmes for the economy, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59728	Thank you. So, on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative, Silvano Hrelja. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59729	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. These proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds aim, as we have heard so far, to comply with the European Community Directive, the European Parliament and the Council of 3 June 2003 on the activities and supervision of institutions for the provision of pension insurance services to employees. The Directive refers to pension funds which are employers’ sponsors, i.e. closed voluntary pension funds whose operations are governed by this law. So far, within the part of the pension system implemented on the basis of individual capitalised savings, it has been established and acts as we have heard four compulsory pension funds which have an average annual growth rate of around 5.80%. There are 21 voluntary pension funds, of which 6 open and 15 closed pension funds and one pension insurance company are also active. Mandatory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings on 31 March 2010 covers a million and 531 thousand 954 insurance companies, while at the end of August this year it covers about a million 548 thousand and 700 insurance companies with cca 34 billion kuna worth of property in their accounts. Voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings comprised a total of 176 thousand and 89 insurance companies, of which 159,000 399 in open funds with a net asset value of 1.33 billion kuna, while 17,000 in closed pension funds with assets more than 261 million kuna. The number of insurance companies changes from month to month. In August alone this year, new accounts opened around 1070 insurance companies in one of the open voluntary pension funds. The funds grow annually with an average annual rate of around 2.33 and 8.97%, and the situation in closed voluntary funds is different because they have seen a decline in the number of insurance companies lately. And the reason for this fall is that employees of a particular employer or association who is the sponsor of the fund, when they acquire the right to pay off the contracted savings with 50 years of life and 5 years of savings contracted, they raise that savings and thus are in fact simply no longer registered as members. The law also defines the conditions, and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency will also prescribe professional qualifications that must be met by members of the management and supervisory board of the pension society. The adoption of this law will bring the business of closed pension funds into line, as the secretary himself said, with the legal property of the European Union, that is, Chapter 9-Financing services, i.e. to reduce the investment limits of those funds and create conditions for their cross-border activities. By joining the European Union, sponsors of closed pension funds in the Republic of Croatia will be able to choose the fund manager and custodian from other Member States, while pension funds management companies and financial institutions carrying out custody activities based in the Republic of Croatia will be able to offer their services to the sponsors of closed pension funds and in other Member States. Furthermore, to insist on the Ministry of Finance which has drawn up a proposal for a provision and a fiscal impact assessment form, incentives from the state budget that are granted to voluntary pension societies for members of a voluntary pension fund would be reduced from 25% to 15% of the contribution paid by a member of the fund in the previous calendar year, but not more than 5000 kuna per member of the fund during one calendar year, and the Ministry of Finance shall be empowered to carry out just that supervision of the legal establishment and use of the incentive funds. This reduction of State incentive funds will have an impact on the reduction of expenditure for that purpose. As we also heard, in 2011, it would be over 20 million kuna, and this year somewhere over 18 million kuna compared to the planned expenditures for this year. Following the above, this draft law, proposed to adopt an emergency procedure, will fully coordinate the business of closed pension funds with the acquis of the European Union and, in accordance with the amendments to the tax rules, will reduce incentives from the state budget for deposits in voluntary pension funds in 2010 and beyond. Following this, the Croatian Democratic Community club suggests that the law be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59730	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59731	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll try to repeat some already known things, but I think it's good in the introduction to repeat them. In the Republic of Croatia, the pension system is divided into three pillars, compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity, compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. The first pension pillar of intergenerational solidarity, which is in the jurisdiction of the state, is required for all employees as well as savings in the second pillar. Thus, the set system ensures a pension from three independent sources which reduces the risk and increases the expected amount of pension, and also allows for the flexibility of retirement through additional voluntary savings. The relevant Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds established a mandatory and voluntary pension scheme on the basis of individual capitalised savings in such a way that the accumulation of capital foreseen for the payment of future pensions of insurance undertakings within that insurance is separate from the payment of pensions governed by a special law and is thus the holder of a regulated pension insurance system that pays out pensions from compulsory and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. So far, in the part of the system relating to individual capitalised savings, basic four mandatory and 21 voluntary pension funds of which six open and 15 closed, and one pension insurance company. The fund consists of the collected assets of insurance companies whose value is increased through investments, and the company is a separate legal person who is strategically and operationally managing the fund. By March 31st this year, there were a million and 531954 insurance companies, and in the third pillar there were 169503 insurance companies, most of which were open and 17700 in closed pension funds. The significant advantages of closed funds are the payment of employers' contributions, i.e. the sponsor of the fund as well as the possibility of agreeing employers with the voluntary fund management company to pay lower fees compared to open voluntary pension funds. Furthermore, the establishment of a closed voluntary Mirovinski Fund also provides numerous benefits to the fund sponsor as it enables, among other things, further stimulation of quality employees and thus encourages their stay at work with sponsors. In foreign countries, this form of savings has been widely accepted, with the aim of obtaining an additional pension and thus simply providing stable income in the third lifetime. As in other areas, preparations for entry into the European Union are under way, and it is necessary to adapt in the section relating to closed voluntary pension funds. Thus, this law will bring the business of closed pension funds in line with the acquis of the European Union and allow for more liberal investment of these funds. It will also be possible to limit the activities of closed pension funds, and by joining the European Union, sponsors of such funds in the Republic of Croatia will be able to choose fund managers and trustees from other Member States. It will also be possible for pension fund management companies and financial institutions to provide services based in the Republic of Croatia to sponsor closed pension funds in other Member States. The cooperation of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency with the competent authorities of a Member State is also regulated and financial institutions in other Member States that can manage closed pension funds are determined. The law also defines the obligation of a voluntary pension company to issue once a year shares and data and information to the members of the fund, and the total payment of the total amount of funds to a member in the event of termination of membership if the funds are lower than 10000 kuna, since the cost of the payment is not relevant in the case of a small sum of the funds collected. It shall also establish the conditions under which the pension society's work permit is withdrawn and the exposure limits to one person in the investment of funds in derivatives shall not exceed 10% of the assets of the Mirovinski Fund, i.e. 5% of the assets. Closed pension funds are allowed to invest up to 70% of the assets in shares and corporate bonds traded on an organised securities market and are allowed to trade in securities that are not traded on organised markets and on the risk capital market. In addition, with regard to changes to the tax rules, it is proposed to reduce potential resources from the state budget that are granted to a voluntary pension society for members of a voluntary pension fund from 25% to 15% of the contribution paid by a single member of the fund and in the previous calendar year. It means the most to the stakes of £5,000 per member per year. The Ministry of Finance shall also be empowered to oversee the legal establishment and use of potential resources from the state budget. This will reduce the expenditure on this purpose of 18272816 kuna compared to the planned 59772816 kuna. In addition to the necessary harmonisation with the legal acquis of the European Union, this proposal is more specifically specified and individual provisions which will allow the law to be implemented more effectively in practice and from all that, the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59732	Thank you very much, colleague. We're crossing. We're running out of clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is a colleague, Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right. A colleague of Maras. He's giving up. A colleague of Neda Klaric's. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have heard from pension funds as a special type of investment funds, are based on pension reform, pardon 2002 and the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds defines two types of pension funds. It's mandatory and voluntary. So far they have been established and operated we have also heard four mandatory and 21 voluntary pension funds of which 6 open and 15 closed, and one insurance pension company. Mandatory pension insurance covered a million 531 thousand and 954 insurance companies, and with voluntary insurance of 169,000 and 503 insurance companies of which 151 thousand 803 in open and 17,000 and 7 hundred in closed pension funds. The aim of the adoption of these amendments to the laws is to fully comply with the existing Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2003 on the activities and supervision of institutions for the provision of pension insurance services to employees. Investment restrictions on funds will be reduced and conditions for the cross-border activities of closed pension funds will be opened. In view of the amendments to the tax rules, which are the Law on Profit Tax and the Tax on Income Act, it is also proposed to reduce incentives from the state budget, which are granted to voluntary pension funds from 25 % to 15% of the contribution paid by one member of the Fund in the previous year, but up to a maximum amount of 5 thousand kuna per member of the Fund during one calendar year. The Ministry of Finance shall have the power to monitor the legality of the establishment and use of incentives approved from the state budget. As little less than 60 million kuna is provided in the budget for this purpose in 2010, the expenditure side of the budget for the next year 2011 will be reduced by around 20 million kuna and around 18 million kuna compared to the planned expenditures in this year 2010. Membership in open voluntary pension funds in 2009 is 14.6% more than in 2008. In closed voluntary pension funds, membership increased by 2.6% in 2009 compared to 2008. The proposed law would eventually say that the amendments and additions to the existing legislation are in line with the intensities of the pension reform, so I will support its adoption in the emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59734	Thank you, colleague Klaric. It's next, dear colleague Vesna Buterin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59735	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. In force in May '99, the Law on Mandatory Voluntary Pension Funds entered into force. the year, and the basic application of the law began on 1 January 2002 with the amendments and additions that followed. The pension system holders of the second and third levels are pension corporations managing pension funds, and pension insurance companies paying out pensions from compulsory and voluntary pension insurance, based on individual capitalised savings. So far, four mandatory and 21 voluntary pension funds, 6 open and 15 closed, and one pension insurance company, have been established and operated within this part of the pension system. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. The second pension column at the end of August included a million 548 thousand 700 insurance companies whose accounts included $33.43 billion in assets. It's actually a 2.28% higher net than the end of July. Voluntary pension insurance, based on individualised capitalised savings, covered a total of 177,000 89 insurance companies at the end of August, of which 159,000 399 insurance companies in open voluntary pension funds with total net assets of about 1.33 billion kuna and 17,000 690 insurance companies in closed pension funds, where annual growth rates range between 0.48% and 14.08%. The adoption of this law which is the subject of today's debate aims to fully comply with Directive 2003/41 of the European Parliament and of the Council on activities and supervision of institutions for the provision of pension insurance services to employees. This coordination reduces the investment limits of funds and creates conditions for cross-border activities of closed pension funds. As soon as the Republic of Croatia joins the European Union, the sponsors of closed pension funds will have the option of electing fund manager and custodian from other Member States of the European Union. Likewise, pension fund management companies, and financial institutions carrying out custody activities based in the Republic of Croatia will be able to offer their services to the sponsors of closed pension funds in other members of the European Union. The proposal for these legislative changes is also to reduce, in accordance with the amended tax regulations, the incentives from the state budget that are granted to voluntary pension societies from 25% to 15% of each member's contribution for the previous year, not more than 5 thousand kuna per member, of course. This reduction will also have an impact on the reduction of expenditure in the current 2010 and the next 2011 as well. It also introduces controls on the legal identification and use of these incentives, to be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, to which a voluntary pension society will provide insight into all accounts, to supply all the information and notifications necessary for the purpose of verifying the request for approval of state incentives, to enroll those funds in the accounts of members of voluntary pension funds and others. Finally, these amendments and amendments to the law will fully harmonize the business of closed pension funds, with the acquis of the European Union, and I will, of course, support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59736	Thank you, colleague. The following has been registered for discussion by distinguished counterpart Karolina Leakovic. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59737	Thank you, Vice President. Here is also recently when we discussed in this House about the new Pension Insurance Act, in fact we argued that Croatia faces the great challenges of the sustainability of our pension system because of the naturally unfavourable demographic structure and because of the low level of employment actually in the Republic of Croatia because, of course, the ratio of pensioners and workers is extremely unfavourable. I therefore believe that we will all agree that the issue of a financially sustainable and socially just pension system is actually the issue of development of the Republic of Croatia and the issue of achieving Croatia as a state of social justice. Of course, this law is the one that is in line with EU law, and therefore, in this sense, the government seems to be a consensus among us, but it should be said that there is a strong debate in the EU on the pension system, on the sustainability of the pension system. After all, we have a chance to see how changes in the pension system are reacted by citizens and citizens of France. So they don't really agree with everything their government proposes, or what the European Commission proposes. And in that sense, I would actually like to say that on July 7th, the Commission opened a debate on a green pension document and that, of course, since this fall, there has been a heated debate. It is therefore a society in which we will soon be, so I think it is important and worth looking back at some of the same remarks that appear at EU level. So maybe it's not all that comes from the current European Commission that we have to accept unspeakably. In fact, the Commission stressed that the number of pensioners in Europe is growing, at the same time the relative number of people in working age is falling, and therefore it is necessary to think in the long term about EU-level reforms in order to keep pensions at the level that is now, at the very least, in order to also increase and of course become sustainable. This economic crisis and slow economic growth and development do not in any way benefit from the stability of the pension system, and therefore the problem of double separation is also strengthened, meaning mandatory pension funds. Some countries have approached the abolition or reduction of contributions to private pension funds to recover public pension finances. Although Commission President Barroso stressed that pension funds are a very important part of the financial system of trade unionists, say at EU level, that it is unacceptable to look at pension reform only in the context of the recovery factor of the financial and banking system and can only agree with them because the European Social Charter states that any older person should be entitled to social protection, which means that pensions must ensure and allow a decent life. In this respect, pension coordination must therefore be achieved in relation to the growth of average salaries and the total cost of life. And today we see that across Europe is increasingly coming down or reaching for cutting and freezing pensions. The European Commission, which we so often like to quote, acknowledges that the principle of solidarity between generations and the principle of national solidarity is a key element in the approach to reforms. And the objectives of the document, so the Green Paper on Pensions, are actually the opening of the debate, especially on some issues. Like how to achieve a real balance between work and retirement, allowing longer active life. That's what we've been talking about here recently. How to remove obstacles for people working in different EU countries and create a single pension market. How to secure pensions, i.e. make them safe during the period of the economic crisis in which we are here and now, and to ensure that pensions are more transparent so that individuals can be informed and to make decisions on their own future pension incomes. We have already spoken of, of course, in the context of earlier discussions on amendments to the Pension Insurance Act that there are significant differences in the level of pensions between men and women, and this green document unfortunately does not contain a gender dimension and, with its approach, it will encourage trade unionists to strengthen the risk of poverty especially for older women. The Commission advises to consider issues such as the introduction of minimum pensions, the regulation of pension rights for persons employed in atypical forms of work, and the benefits or benefits for persons who have not had their own free will, primarily for women, to their own Member States, and I hope that Croatia will be one of them very soon. In this respect, therefore, the European Left or Trade Unions and Socialists believe that intergenerational solidarity must be the basis of the pension system and pensions must guarantee a decent life rather than be used for the sustainability of financial markets. This means that the system of intergenerational solidarity and public pension funds must be preserved. It means that special attention is also paid to women, and to older women who unfortunately barely survive on minimum pensions and tonnes in poverty and, of course, are then invited by all governments of EU member states to actually put in place measures to stop it. It is therefore stressed that pension systems should be public, that economic and labour policies must ensure that women’s employment is as large as possible in the registered i.e. formal economy, that work outside the labour market should be valorised in order to introduce benefits and benefits for raising children and family care and that it should actually work to ensure minimum pensions, which is of particular importance for all with lower incomes. In that sense, I would actually like the current Croatian government to also have a slightly longer-term pension policy, so to cut or so on. reforms not only rely on one budget year or on one election period but on a more systematic, longer-term, and also with a view to what is done in the EU, the pension system is actually seen as part of a comprehensive development social system.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59738	Thank you, colleague. It is up to the esteemed colleague Zdenko Franić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59739	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another law playing by which application is delayed until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. Not pleading whether this is good or bad in the context of this law, I just remind myself that almost all the laws we are making, especially those under an emergency procedure, have delayed action until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, and God himself no longer knows what will happen when all these laws, on the day of our country's entry into full membership of the European Union, enter into force in which they will interact, are likely to result in complete paralysis, if not collapse and such a weak Croatian economy. However, let us return to this law and mention the fact that unfortunately pensions in the Republic of Croatia have become more of a social category, rather than benefits for past work. Just a few days ago, we had a report from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, where the most direct evidence can be found for this thesis, for example. in the fact that every 4th regular pension, disability pension, is with a trend in continuous growth, with an exponential growth of only 3.8 years, with a correlation coefficient of 98%. So we see one social legality in Croatian pensions in the most negative context. This law, as it states in its explanation and assessment of the situation here, therefore, in order to comply with the directives of the European Union, also reduces some restrictions on the investment of closed pension funds and reduces incentives, most likely due to savings in the state budget, because it is actually one measure that motivated people to invest in the 3rd pension pillar. Unfortunately, this law did not affect the restrictions on the investment of this pension fund on the 1st pillar, which is a pity. Article 68a of the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds implies where the assets of pension funds can be invested and securities whose issuer is the Republic of Croatia or a Member State for OECD Economic Cooperation Organisations are primarily preferred. However, this law could be one of the laws which, instead of passively waiting for the recovery of the European Union's economy and primarily German recovery, would have affected the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia through the combined vessels, such as the combined vessels. This law could also contribute to the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia by active measures in at least one segment, but also by so much advocating the transfer of knowledge from the scientific academic community to the economy in such a way as to significantly increase one margin of risk investment and compulsory pension funds not only in shares and bonds, but also potentially income projects proposed after certain reviews by Croatian scientists. Let us remember that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has such mechanisms through..., Fast etc. but we suffer from chronic capital shortages, and if only a small segment of the permitted investment of the primarily mandatory pension fund was directed into such development and research, it would be a win-win situation for pensioners and Croatian sciences living on the edge of poverty. However, as usual, only laws are mechanically aligned with European Union legislation, without taking into account the broader context and conveniences and opportunities in other segments that these laws could have. Mostly when the Government proposes laws, it does not see one context beyond the context of wider social implications and interaction between different laws. And these beautiful desires, especially in the growth and progress of the property of pension funds, as well as so many times declared society knowledge, have neither now been given a chance for mutual synergy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59740	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We've exhausted all the applications for an individual hearing. Does he want to do it on behalf of the promoter? Yeah. State Secretary Mr. Kresimir Rogman. Here's the chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59741	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. I'll just say three things to stress the structure of investment in mandatory pension funds that is over 90% domestic property, 9.8% abroad. This encourages the growth of the domestic economy. Secondly, as regards the implementation of this harmonisation with the European Union directives, it is logical and practically only possible to make this possible by entering Croatia into the European Union, because this is also about such things as the possibility for our societies to offer services to the sponsors of closed pension funds in other Member States. We will not be able to do that until we join the European Union. And finally, the third thing that's been discussed, and that's the question of this reduction of incentives from 25% to 15%. The state certainly has an interest and it is an important interest to promote voluntary pension savings, so the third pillar. That's why there are incentives, which is why the incentives stay. At the same time, there is also something that is contradictory to the reason of the honourable representative Vidovic. That still refers to a part of the insurance company, just over 10%. They are probably not the ones with the lowest salaries, although it was the goal if all employees in Croatia could save in a voluntary pension fund. Therefore, in this way I could say that one conditionally stated stable balance is achieved from what is very important to encourage voluntary savings for the third pension fund and the fact that this does not apply to all employees in practice. Of course, it's legal for anyone who saves. However, I would say another important thing that I mentioned briefly in the opening statement. Therefore, the reduction of these incentives should be seen precisely in relation to the second law, which is the Income Tax Act, where it is possible for employers to untaxablely pay for workers for volunteering, for a third pillar of up to 500 kuna per month, i.e. 6000 kuna per year. So that's exactly how in another way further encourages savings in the second pension column, in the third pension column. I expect that the results will appear there, that it will be a significantly greater effect than you can see now. So far, there has been no interest in employers doing this because it was just as expensive to them as pay, and the other thing is, that's why it wasn't negotiated in collective agreements. I expect that now in the new phase of the conclusion of collective agreements it will be a very common phenomenon because right now it is just after it is untaxable, it has been made possible both for meaningfully and for workers and employers to provide that part for savings precisely in a voluntary pension fund. So that's the part where the additional state, not only through this incentive that is reduced, but in another way encourages savings in a voluntary pension fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59742	Thank you very much. I'm closing the point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59743	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, the emergency procedure was P.Z.E. No. 599. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds. Please, let's get involved and vote. Here, sit down. You sit there temporarily and then later where Mrs. Kalash or Podruga sat, until the Presidency of the Parliament decides where Mr. Ivo Sanader will sit. Score. This final bill was adopted 67 votes for, 22 abstentions and 5 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59744	And we move to the 5th item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of work of the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 608 Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You've received reports from the board. The proposer's representative is State Secretary, Mr Ivan Bubic. Does the motionary's representative still want to come forward? He does, because I can see he's already here. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59745	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and of the MPs. The economic recovery programme provides for an analysis of the purpose of the existing structure of agencies, institutions and other regulatory bodies by the Government of Croatia as one of the measures of public administration reform. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also concluded on the implementation of activities related to the reform of the state administration and established appropriate guidelines. In accordance with that conclusion, an analysis was carried out of the structure and part-round of agencies, institutes, funds and other legal entities with public authority, taking into account the legal property of the European Union and the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia in the accession process to the European Union. In determining the purpose of the work of the individual agencies, institutes, funds and other public authority legal transactions and the development of a reorganisation proposal, the same operations already carried out in individual ministries were taken into account, even setting up internal establishment units identical to the name of the Institute Agency or the Fund. On this basis, and for the purpose of rationalising business and more efficient activity organisation, it is proposed to abolish the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments, established in 2002 by the founders of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, in which the administration of the same name and similar work and activities are established, will take over jobs, employees, equipment, rights and obligations of the Agency and financial resources necessary to carry out the tasks undertaken. Since a large number of the Agency’s activities overlap with the activities of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, we believe that this measure will contribute to effective implementation of measures to support exports and attract investment and contribute to saving the budget. It is also proposed that current agency workers who have a contract on the day of entry into force of this law become civil servants and subsistence officers who, in accordance with the new internal organisation of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, will be deployed to the taken over jobs, and those who will not be deployed and who have the status of civil servant will be made available to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, while working relationship with those unscheduled tenants will be terminated in accordance with the general rules on labour. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure because this law implements one of the measures set out in the Economic Recovery Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59746	Thank you to the Secretary of State for your opening remarks. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished counterpart Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59747	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. It is clearly defined in the Economic Recovery Programme that the public administration segment or rationalisation of public administration will carry out decentralisation of state institutions and agencies, moving outside Zagreb and reducing the number of institutions and agencies and changing the work of certain parts of the administration to concentrate related activities in one place. It's a quote from the Economic Recovery Program. We therefore adopt this law as part of the implementation of economic recovery measures. The analyses have shown that the agency's operations overlap with the activities of some ministries, particularly the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, and that only the abolition of the agency should contribute to the rationalisation of the state administration and produce additional savings. It is clear that in a situation where Croatia needs both export and foreign investment for economic growth and repair of the country's external balance, I am the act of abolishing the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments in the public is raising certain doubts. But that's why the public should know that this agency has so far not justified its entire existence, that the state has cost more than ten million kunas a year for wages only and that its work has mostly been done by several ministries so far. On the Committee on the Economy, members of the Committee, who are also the heads of local self-government, therefore the mayors, expressed dissatisfaction with the work of the Agency so far because it did not establish communication with the field or offer its services and logistics. As part of this debate, it is also necessary to refer to the material called an analysis of the impact of the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments, which, as part of this discussion on the abolition of the Agency to the public, has been placed by the Agency itself, from which it would be concluded that the Agency has worked extremely successfully even in world terms compared to similar agencies in the world. But all of us are clearly interested in concrete results. For us, it is only relevant how much investment is increased in Croatia, whether it is suitable for the needs of Croatian development and whether the export rate is sufficient to repair the country's balance of payments, but also as part of what is really a direct contribution from the Agency. Direct foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia starting in 1993 is 24.4 billion euros, and according to the investments made by Austria, the Netherlands and Hungary. In 2009, investments were unfortunately halved in view of the economic crisis compared to 2008. But what we are not satisfied with is the investment structure in which the financial sector, telecommunications and trade prevail. More than 35% of investments are related to the Croatian banking sector, i.e. investments of an absolute amount of more than 8 and a half billion euros. Over the past 17 years, more than 2.6 billion euros have been invested in Croatia's trade and trade intervention, followed by production of 1.6 billion euros in oil derivatives, production of chemicals and chemical products with 1.61 billion euros, postal and telecommunications, etc. What's the structure of the investment? Namely, the best indicator is the current crisis. Slovakia, in which investments in high technology, electronics and automotive industries have been particularly significant in the past period, saw an increase in industrial production of 23.5%. It's an area of economic diplomacy, and we see that it's working hard now. The Ministry of Economy has come up with information on 50 new economic diplomats, attachés who should also take over the Agency's jobs, so together with the ministry, it is necessary to work more closely to attract the processing industry, and this high and medium-high technology that we can say in today's global knowledge economy is becoming the cornerstone of the competitiveness of the economy, but we also see in this example Slovakia that just at the time of the crisis, this sector has proved to be a fast recovery sector. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the removal of the agency as one of 14 that will be shut down or connected and that annually Croatia costs more than 150 million kuna for wages and cold drive alone. The HDZ Club also believes that new administrations or departments in ministries will effectively carry out new tasks and that this job under the auspices of the ministry will work better and deliver better results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59748	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished counterpart Romana Jerkovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Over the past two years, we have repeatedly pointed to the importance and need of a proactive policy in the fight against the crisis, the need for systematic well-thinking measures that are long-term sustainable, cost-effective and which will primarily ensure new development. Unfortunately, and allow me a political assessment the Government said I would define for a slightly different policy which I would dare say, or call a restrictive policy of short-term measures, in principle, to end what is the least damage to the party's image, and solutions will somehow come to us in their own way. I believe that such a model of functioning and governance does not have a lot of proactive policy in it that should ensure the strengthening of the economy and the development of society. One of the good examples that proves unfortunately how right I am by my deep conviction is this item of the agenda, i.e. a proposal to abolish the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments. Of course, the abolition of a number of agencies is welcomed in one part of the public with approval and that is understandable and it is logical and we agree in principle that there are agencies that have not justified their existence. Maybe it's one of them, maybe, but we're going in a row. The first explanation of the proposal to abolish the Agency does not say anything at all about the Agency. A colleague, Kovacevic, on behalf of the HDZ club, says things I expected Mr. Secretary of State to hear from you because the Agency is a government institution, is not the HDZ institution. I mean, it shouldn't be the same. So if this argument doesn't say absolutely anything about the Agency, then what it's talking about, who it's talking about. Don't mind me saying he's talking about the government. If, or if I consider that the explanation mentioned here on one page of the text is unacceptable. I find it hard to believe and I don't actually believe, I don't believe Mr. Secretary of State that you've made a decision to terminate the agency without having previously created a kind of elaborate that would have contributed to the abolition of this agency. If this is a measure from the economic recovery program, then I expect you to know the answer to the following questions. First of all, what number of agency employees is this? What jobs and what ministries are they going to? What personal incomes are they going to? What about the agency's premises? Will your quarters be sold? And most important of all, what kind of savings are we talking about? So what does the repeal of the Agency for the Budget of the Republic of Croatia mean? If the agency didn't justify its existence, I guess there's a reason. And from fellow Kovacevic, we heard some of those reasons. If there is a valid reason, and I guess the Croatian Parliament can get those reasons in writing. I guess we have a right to hear the reasons. So why wasn't the agency working? Why didn't she justify her existence? Who's responsible for that? What about those who were overseeing the work of agencies, colleagues and colleagues? What about those who were supposed to support the agency's work? On the other hand, if the agency is really unnecessary, it may well be in favour of the government having no policy to attract foreign investment. This means that neither personnel, personnel infrastructure, nor incentives, nor measures, nor programmes that the agency could implement are provided. So instead of some flat-rate evaluations and hasty suspension decisions, and this is to be concluded from this explanation we expected an analysis of what the agency was doing or not doing, which it should have. Secondly, we think that this decision is actually a demagogue, because it's basically not about real savings. Why? The agency is being abolished, but actually employees are moving to the state administration. We don't know exactly where, but they're moving to the state administration. And it's kind of creating the wrong impression in the public that the government is taking bold moves and reducing the cost of unnecessary expenditure, which is what we sort of rub our eyes on to citizens, because we're going to move the same people to other jobs with other or similar jobs. We hear some of them are going to get fired. So what number is it, we don't know that either. I think this model has a name that can be understood under that wolf's fill, sheep in number, unfortunately in that way it seems to me that we are constantly and consistently working in favour of our own damage. Third, it's demagogy, and because if we're not satisfied with the agency's work results, then let's switch managers at that agency. If we're not satisfied with the work programme, let's change the work programme. It seems to me that this procedure is what we throw out the window of the funds that we invested in both spatially and in human resources, and in the agency's software. Is that a good idea? Well, maybe it is. Maybe it is. But give us an argument for that. I believe that, in addition to these several demagogue reasons, there is one much deeper one, despite all the efforts and blurry, the reasons for this poor agency's results, which I would not have doubted if I had seen concrete figures, in fact, the government may not actually be aware of, shows to what extent we are as a state away from organised efficient and systematic policies of attracting foreign investment. And almost all countries in the world have formed their investment promotion agencies as an independent government institution. Not only do they have them, but the world association of promotional agencies numbers 181 members. So we don't know they have them, but they've been strengthening them lately, at this time of crisis especially in both material and humane terms. Therefore, these agencies are conceived as agencies that balance regional development within the state and have all their own regional offices. Croatia, if I am not wrong over the past period according to European instructions, has completed the process of establishing a regional development system, but has failed, it is my assessment, that system connects it to one whole so that the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments of the Regional Development Agency, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, with its county and foreign representations, connects the Ministry of Regional Development into one meaningful system of promoting Croatia as a country of opportunity and perspective. ... Unlike us, here are a few examples of what countries that are our direct competition are doing. [[You don't understand.]] I'm only listing some, and I'm going to say very briefly, because these are data that are also available on the Internet. Like the Czech Republic. She started her own agency in '92. In 2008, there were 13 regional offices and 8 foreign offices, 231 employees, who achieved 213 projects in which they brokered, one billion and 774 million dollars in investments, 14 and a half thousand jobs, of which 3,000 and 900 jobs for high professional equipment. In the '92 period. by 2008 a total of 193 development projects, with over 200 thousand new jobs. Ireland. Ireland, which is organised in, the Irish agency is organised through 9 regional offices, 17 offices outside Ireland in 2009, 125 foreign investment projects, 4 and a half thousand new jobs, of which 500m euros in the R & D project. It is interesting here that the Irish agency IDA, despite the crisis in which the Irish economical strategy is being published, sets development goals for the period from 2010 to 2014 within which it has objectives, very clear objectives. From how many jobs they will open up to how many projects, how many projects they will provide encouraging conditions. So that's how it works in some countries they have, I would say an active policy of development and relations to foreign investment. I doubted whether to mention this argument that we heard when we set up the agency and the arguments at the time, I would say they had their foothold in very real and concrete reasons, i.e. the needs and the fact that such agencies are just the key in countries that are far above Croatia for the success of attracting foreign capital and foreign investment. It's not long here I've said in this assembly that the fundamental developmental resources of a society from every country are human and space. Croatia has in both these resources countless advantages compared to all transition countries similar to history, similar size, similar traditions. So isn't it justifiable to ask why we're so failed at attracting foreign capital? And is it possible that only the agency was responsible for that? And it would be good to know what we mean specifically, Mr. Secretary of State, that at this point, it will change? I expected, and that happened, that the explanation would be that the agency's affairs would go under the ministry's activities. I think it's very wrong because the agency is designed as an operational body that acts quickly, which is flexible. I don't think the Ministry can do that. Second, foreign investment attracts the activities of different ministries. What does that mean? That we will have very soon the establishment of some committees, commissions, government parasites that will then monitor and monitor, coordinate the work of all these ministries. I think it's wrong. And very short yet. Perhaps you could understand from this statement of mine that I'm the attorney of the agency we intend to terminate. On the contrary! I wouldn't want you to think that, because I think the agency has suffered from many diseases, from over-consuming through wrong choice of priorities to dubious personnel solutions, but we're against one hasty, demagogue policy that's nothing but the old saying that we're gonna throw with dirty water and a child on the street. So far, we have not been very successful in attracting foreign capital, and we seem to have all the resources and potential for that. I wonder if we couldn't do it with the agency how we're gonna do it without the agency? Because of everything I've put out by the SDP club, they won't support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59750	Thank you. We now have three applications for correction of the quote. First of all, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here's my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59751	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Jerkovic, 2 allegations incorrect. You said it wasn't about real savings and you said this was a hasty and demagogue policy. It's a savings matter, only on the lease of 2 million kunas paid by the agency a rent for a business space, which is why he can't sell a space like you said he would sell it. He can't because he's on the lease. As far as hasty and demagogue policies are concerned, so if rationalisation reduces the number of agencies, and not the Agency's activities are achieved, but will take place within the framework of the ministries, then we can only talk about the increased effectiveness of these same activities. But the SDP has just objected to a large number of agencies, and we have joined a reduction in the number of agencies, even because of ours, but also because of criticism from the general public and there are too many. And there's no harm in cutting off the agency, and we're holding down the activities the agency is doing because it's the closest and co-operation of the agency right now with the ministries. That is why it will be able to act more effectively within the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59752	Thank you. A prominent colleague, Nevenka Marinovic, also appeared to correct the allegations. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59753	Here, I'll try to correct a few allegations. So it's not true that the government isn't aware and that the government doesn't have a program. So she's aware and she's got a program, but she's looking for efficiency, the one the agency in these kinds of jobs hasn't shown yet. And here I know that I suppose you do, too, because in both the area and the Rijeka County, or the coastal and mountainous county, the government has spent, using the funds of European funds, implemented a certification programme and regions and individuals to get a team. So, trained people who will accept foreign investments. There have been many programmes, here I introduce you to this programme, which also in the field of Zadar County, also means a region ready for foreign investment, but also individual 3 certificates, means for individuals who are certified to receive such investments and the results of some regions are visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59754	Thank you. And the third application for correction of the alleged, distinguished counterpart Dragan Kovacevic. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's about that same statement, so the abolition of the agency is a demagogue policy. It's not a demagogue policy, even your entire debate is absolutely arguments that stand and hold water, so the agency needs to be shut down. So this is not a demagogue policy or a demagogue decision, but a decision that was made based on an analysis of the effectiveness of the agency's work. We said it was a particularly unsatisfactory field, and you just gave examples of how others handled it. The Agency has therefore failed to fulfil its intended purpose and its tasks and it is clear that it is a rational, pragmatic decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59756	Thank you. No more? And there are two more applications individually. A colleague named Zvonimir Mršić, has no right to debate. My colleague Gordan Maras, he's not here either. We have therefore exhausted individual applications. Final secretary of state if he wants to? Yeah. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59757	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs, I believe that certain answers to questions have already been addressed directly to me. I will tell you that out of 36 people who work in the agency, all people are taken over by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and that most of these people will, according to their previous jobs and qualifications, work on these jobs at the Department of Economic Diplomacy, incentivising investments and exports of the Republic of Croatia. And the people who worked in finance will work in finance, who are in frames, in frames. It may happen that a very small number of people, if there is no adequate need, will remain at their disposal in the government, then jobs will be able to be obtained within government institutions or eventually according to legal norms will be sent conditioned by firing solved but perhaps anyone, perhaps no one, encouragingly, can give you an answer to that. As far as space is concerned, you're already in charge. It saves $2 million because it's rented. So, savings on people and on the premises would be about 45% of the current costs, or from 13 million current annual costs, will save 6 million... I assure you. What am I saying? He wants to gain the functionality of doing these jobs, better coordination and from one place because these jobs and when our delegations go abroad, the Office of the President of the State and the Office of the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce assures you that they will be more flexible, faster and more efficient co-ordination and that they will be more strongly approached and assisted in export affairs and also on investment. I wouldn't go into deep analysis even though I know the data and the best of the modest results I'm going to be a cultural speech by the directors themselves, and everything that's wrong. Let's just say let's just make sure the results aren't so modest in the future, they're better. If you're looking at these eight-month export results and import. Our exports are 5 billion euros, imports are 9 and 800 deficits of 4.1 billion. It says enough how much space there is to boost exports and the same way that investments in Croatia would occur. And I assure you that today's Croatian government is giving a deep and wide-ranging attention to these affairs. It's about removing x barriers to simplifying various laws and removing obstacles to all of this. And I agree with you theoretically and practically that it is good for the agencies to do operational jobs, and the ministries to run legal and lead a strategy and policy of development of a particular area. However, it proved unsuccessful. Let us try to get better results in a new organisational form. That we will come to work already on this plan I am telling you an increase in exports this year, of 750m euros, a reduction in imports and that it is better overall... so to say externally for a whole billion euros. And I deeply believe that you can move on. Of course there are agencies and shelters in the world, but our country is smaller than 4.5 million people, and let's take for example. economy, companies of 100 people, thousands of people, 10,000 people and more, and you'll see that it's not the same and deep organization. In the situation in which we are found in the economic and financial crisis as well as in the whole world, it is necessary to rationalise and save on such agencies, institutions and funds. On the one hand, let me put it this way, free money creates on savings, and on the other hand, on higher incomes. I propose that we try to function in this way, and I assure you that what we have done in the Ministry of Economy and in general in the Croatian Government, there will be greater flow, better functionality, greater export and investment achievements. Because you can see for yourself that we have already prepared for the level of state or public sector of 30 significant projects, we are preparing them for the private sector, etc. And a lot more so that I don't talk. We have opted for this solution, by analysing the situation so far, and not by saying that you used demographics, but with the best intentions to arrange this part of the Croatian economy and be better. I personally worked very successfully in the first job on export affairs. I know how these jobs are done and other commercial ones, how factories and other institutions are run, so other people who are in the ministry of experience, we need to become more functional, we need to send businessmen to economic studios who know people, who can better and more efficiently log into export jobs, who will be more credible, etc. We use those political personnel for political diplomacy. Everything that is thought, done, done, done, I assure you that will bring results to the benefit of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59758	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. And this will end our work today. Tomorrow, normally at 9.30 p.m., we start with the sixth item of the agenda. This is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Protocol amending and supplementing the Agreement on Trade aspects of intellectual property rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-06-0.u59759	Thank you very much, Mr. Hebrang, for your cooperation. Let's move on. 3. Final draft law on the termination of the Agency's work on promotion of exports and investments, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 608. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the termination of the Agency's work on the promotion of exports and investments. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 78 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and 40 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. We will continue with the session with a note, please all MPs and deputies, because we will end the working session around half past 12, so around 11:30, then we need to prepare the hall for the formal session. I ask all clubs to be declared due to our guests who should be in the front row, but we can agree here and I would ask you to arrange some of your benches, to withdraw these materials, and that it's actually easier to organize. So at 1 o'clock, we'd have this formal session about Independence Day, the sharing of these science awards, etc. So we ask you to be observant. These some first benches will be for our guests, for the laureates who will receive the prize and so on. They will be placed only in one of these parts of the assembly. Please, let's do this. Today is the International Day of Dignity, which has been marked for years on the initiative of the International Trade Union Confederation, which was joined by all the trade unions of Croatian trade unions. Of course, it is a day that should remind us that work is something that is important to all societies, to all countries, to all those who do whatever jobs they do, that it is dignified, that it is with respect, and we, like the Croatian Parliament, also want to mention it and mark it in one way to join in that way to mark the Day of Dignified Work and in our country, along with our union centres. Thank you very much. We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol amending and supplementing the IPR Agreement (TRIPS), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 610 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Mr Ruđer Friganovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
