ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49262	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. You have before you the Bookbooks Act. This is a second reading, and I hope that today's debate will show that it is a quality bill, as the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia promised in the autumn. We have approached the writing of a law that we are convinced will in one future, a distant future be a stable law and that will allow much more order than it has ever been in use, in printing and using textbooks in our primary and secondary schools. Since the first reading or first version of the law and the debates held in the Croatian Parliament, we have listened closely to all the phonograms and all the comments that the MPs made in this Assembly, as well as the comments of some experts from the educational process in the Republic of Croatia. There have been many very good, constructive proposals that we have gladly appreciated and we think that in this sense they have contributed to improving the first version. And now on the tables we have a proposal that is good, good, quality and lasting and justly solving the problem of textbooks in the Republic of Croatia. The textbooks used in schools, as well as teaching aids, are not just something that is a commodity on the market. Education is not a slave in that sense of the word so that it could possibly be treated on purely economic grounds but rather something more. It is the absolute responsibility of the state, the people and all those who care about the improvement and progress of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as this honourable Parliament. In this context, a regulation that strives for better quality textbooks is also aimed at regulating their use in schools because we have so far had examples of changing textbooks from year to year in the same school, from the same teachers. It was legitimate because that's how it was and so far the laws have made it possible, so we ended up with a huge number of textbooks of several thousand. And simply uncontrollable use and one in the first row by the marketing orientation of publishers involved in this business. This bill provided what we had announced, which is to ensure the sustainability of textbooks, to disable the verse which unfortunately ruled in some of our schools where a single teacher taught and used different textbooks in different classes of the same generation. The law stipulates that textbooks are selected from 10% of those who have passed the vote of all teachers in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it was also removed and it was justified to note that in the event of a public call some textbooks who received support from, say, 60% of teachers would be eliminated exclusively because of the price, and would possibly enter textbooks with a lower percentage of teacher support. This law says that in circulation can be all the textbooks that received a minimum of 10% of the teachers and teachers' votes in our schools. These textbooks that received 10% support enter the second round where from these school textbooks at the level of the active, so at school level choose a set of textbooks or a set of textbooks to be used in that school and this selection is worth a minimum of 4 years. Similarly, the law also provides for price regulation in which the ministry will determine in one procedure described in the law the maximum price for each textbook by respecting all technical specifications but also the direct and indirect costs incurred in the design of the textbook, and after that those textbooks that received a 10% census must be classified within that price, i.e. they may have the intended maximum price or be lower than the maximum price provided. Experiences in some countries where there is such application show that almost no textbook is highlighted at a maximum price but that textbook prices range from 70 to 80% of the maximum price prescribed, so we expect this to happen in this case too. Likewise, we said that we would clearly define what textbooks are in the narrow sense of words and what they are auxiliary and teaching means. So far, we've had one textbook in use, and in some other cases let's say five other different sets that followed the same subject, so for one subject there were five titles. And when all this is summed up, when educators and teachers put a comment on it, and when you look at what is the curriculum and the program simply comes to a very clear and fast conclusion that it is almost impossible to use all that material in the teaching process for a very banal reason that it is simply not enough for that captain. So we had examples of whether it was at the expense of the state, or whether the textbooks were obtained from the state budget or were obtained individually and not used at all by teachers, but not by the students themselves at home. In this way, we will clearly distinguish which category is mandatory educational means, which is part of the optional educational means that can continue to be in free sale and can be used if both teachers and parents agree on it. The law provides for the same way that after selecting a package of textbooks to be used in a particular school, the parent council gives an opinion on the choice. That opinion is optional, but it is certainly necessary and what we think introduces another element of responsibility for both teachers and parents in selecting some textbooks. If a school in one area would not be able to select a set of textbooks to be used in that school, a legal provision will be applied after the deadline that says that textbooks that are most represented in the area of the county where the school in question is unable to choose textbooks will be used. We think that this legal solution is equally fair and fair, because of the differences on the one hand and in the economic position of individual counties in the Republic of Croatia. The school bag will be easier because part of the teaching, teaching aids will be eliminated from the obligation package and therefore will not be prescribed to be supplied, nor will children have to wear them to school, and as I did earlier if they want to be able to use them at home. Of course, the law also went in the direction of a transitional period. We also heard in this honorable House justified comments, and these comments came from publishers that because of the situation last year they remained with pretty large supplies of already printed textbooks and auxiliary teaching tools in their warehouses, because the situation surrounding the purchase of textbooks allegedly did not check it out, we remained somewhere around 50% of the unsold textbooks last year or this school year for primary schools, and that the percentage and far higher when we talk about high school textbooks. Respecting the fact that this would indeed be a shame and would produce great economic losses, not only for the publishers, but it would in general be unjust to destroy all those books that are printed and that exist. We have come up with a solution that says that in this next school year, so the school year 2010 and 2011 will be able to be used in existing, already printed textbooks if the censorship of 10% of the teachers and these textbooks pass, so they will already remain in use until the school year 2011/2012, because in 2011/2012. all textbooks will have to be printed in accordance with the textbook standard which will prescribe very clear and accurate technical specifications the appearance of textbooks of format, paper quality, quality of printing and all that such a specification contains. From that moment on, what I said earlier will apply to the principle of maximum price allowed for certain categories of these curricula. During this transitional period, so next school year and these textbooks that are already in storage, so where you will only have to tap one smaller amount of textbooks, will be used in the following way. The price of these textbooks approved should be reduced by 10% of last year's or this year's textbook prices in use. I know that there have been comments that such a statement on the maximum price of existing textbooks should be changed and clearly prescribed that any textbook can be highlighted in the price only 10% lower than before, and not as such that it is the maximum price. It comes from some sides where it appears concerned that some of the publishers might reduce those prices by more than 10% and we think it's absolutely fine. What the government wants is for prices to be reduced by 10%, and if someone is free to reduce prices by more, it is, of course, a matter of competition in this case and not that we don't mind, but rather if... That's what happens. We welcome that decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have respected all the amendments that have come from the Committee on Law, as well as from the Committee on Science and Culture and Education, and we think that by respecting these amendments, as well as the amendment clubs of national minorities, this law is a very good solution and we are confident that this law will remain in force permanently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49263	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49264	Mr. Minister said this law ensures the sustainability of textbooks. This claim is fundamentally incorrect, because this ministry continues to stand upside down and because it proposes in a completely reverse order, and this House is passing laws. The law had to be passed, what the law on primary and secondary education required, and these are national curricula, and according to national curricula, the Law on textbooks was to be laid down, and in fact, from the national curricula, it was to be implemented together. So now we're passing the Law on textbooks that, for four years, need to ensure the sustainability of textbooks, and then later I hope this year we'll bring national curriculas in order to re-change textbooks in a year or two. And the urgency of the whole thing is the next fact. Mr. Minister disbanded the national curricula group in the 8th month, so it passed the 9th month, so it passed the 11th month, so it passed the 12th month, then the 1st, so now it's the 2nd month, so we don't have a group that works on national curricula, which is bound by the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. Therefore, this claim is completely groundless.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49265	Thank you. You've had your chance to discuss it further, of course. Let's move on. Do the work bodies want reporters? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49266	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, co-workers of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 27th session held on 2 extensions 11 and 25 February this year the final proposal of the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools, P.Z. No. 474. The Committee considered the proposal as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. In the light of the final proposal for a law, the Proposer recalls the reasons why he initiated the adoption of a new Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools. So, the desire to achieve lower textbook prices, the need to establish the minimum period of application of the approved textbook for 4 years, which would be determined by I say 4 years, as well as the effect that is picturesquely expressed as an easier learner's bag. The proposal clarifies the measures to be incorporated into the new law in order to achieve those objectives, and in particular refers to the differences between the solutions set out in the final draft law and those discussed in the first reading. It states that the final draft of the law has installed most of the remarks made in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and by parliamentary representatives. The improvements were made at a content and nomotechnical level. The proposed provisions on mandatory tendering have been amended, setting the lowest price offered as a criterion for selecting textbooks. Finally, two textbooks pass through the final selection offering the lowest price. In order not to allow the minimum price criteria to be imposed on the quality of the final proposal, the ministry is intended to publish a public call for the inclusion of textbooks in the textbook catalogue to which only those publishers who have been declared by at least 10% of teachers, or teachers, can apply. And as a retail price, they pointed out that price that does not exceed the amount but published the highest level of price. The proposer also amended the provisions of the draft laws which provided that only 2 textbooks, which highlight the lowest price, would receive the possibility of a choice at the level of professional activities of schools. In addition, according to the final proposal with the professional activity of the school, the choice of textbooks must also be agreed by the Board of Parents in view of the price. As a significant new measure, it is also pointed out that the publisher cannot voluntarily withdraw the textbook from use until 4 years ago. This measure certainly eliminates the possibility of an unwarranted increase in the title of the textbook, which would mainly make it a clear commercial interest, and puts publishers in a position to act as a public service. The Proposer also stresses the improvement in the first reading when it comes to textbooks with a small story and textbooks for teaching in the language and letter of national minorities. The proposals were also accepted to prevent donations from school publishers and teaching staff to strengthen the objectivity of teaching staff's decision on the value of textbooks. It also resolves in a stable manner and the issue of already existing textbooks printed on the basis of a memo that was brought at the time of the former minister and that these already printed textbooks would not remain unused is the possibility that they should be used along with, as is said, that price that would be 10% lower. Among the proposals not included in the final proposal, the Proposer points out that it would not be justified to accept a position under which the adoption of a new Law on textbooks would be delayed until the adoption of a national and the girl in question and a new teaching standard in order to avoid the need to comply with the new law with those documents, i.e. vice versa. Namely, the promoter argues, just bringing new girls in does not necessarily mean changing all textbooks, i.e. bringing new girls in. That's not how it's related to the adoption of a new law. Because if new girls will require changes in existing textbooks and changes will have to be made regardless of the new law. It is an opportunity to point out that the proposed law addresses not only the issue of textbooks for primary and secondary schools, but also additional and auxiliary teaching tools that arise in the appropriate normative part of the final proposal. A number of questions were also raised in the debate in the first reading. General remarks have been made that the argumentation of the proposal is too narrow if it comes down to the reasons for the price of textbooks and easier learning bag. Because these reasons, as important as they may be, cannot be the main reason for the changes they want to make in the textbook area. Different opinions have been expressed on the quality and price ratios of textbooks, on the need for parents to influence the choice of textbooks and on the private interests and objective opportunities of publishers to meet the conditions adopted by the draft law. Especially when it comes to transitional solutions and deadlines, which would be provided for by the law on the approval and printing of textbooks. The Committee is also familiar with the views of the community of publishers, classroom teachers, the Independent Union of Employees in the secondary schools of Croatia and the Croatian Association of Directors of Primary Schools. After the debate was held, the committee decided, by majority vote, 6 for, 1 abstention, to contribute to the Croatian Assembly to pass the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school with amendments attached to you and which, Mr. President, allow me not to read this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49267	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49268	Thank you, Mr. President. At its 32nd session on 11 February 2010, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities considered this final proposal of the Law on textbooks as an interested working body. A number of proposals have been tabled in the debate, and in the end, we have begun to discuss amendments. The amendment was a few. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2. The text of point 3 is proposed to comply with provision 6. Law on education and education in the language and letter of national minorities. In fact, in this way, it defines the textbook's addendum as an additional teaching tool which complements the textbook translated into a letter in the language of national minorities and determines that the content must be related to the specificity of the national minority. The second amendment, in fact, was changed so that the process of approving textbooks and supplementary teaching resources in the language and letter of national minorities remained in the section of the Ministry of Science. This is a central amendment, so far there has been one practice of members of national minorities having small fees and indeed not only by content but also by procedure and by many other circumstances these are special textbooks and procedures which are otherwise proposed here seemed too complicated, proposed in the end too pretentious, of course pretentious in a way that actually decides on small fees and has been decided, it has been proposed to the Ministry and Minister to be a central body where the textbooks of national minorities will be approved. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Many textbooks are imported from the native people and we have suggested that this procedure be simplified as much as possible. Furthermore, the procedure for the authorisation of textbooks and supplementary teaching, as set out in these first two paragraphs, means the original and the imports are initiated by the submission of requests by a minority publisher, i.e. the importer of textbooks, usually corresponds to or associations of national minorities gathering the largest number of members of national minorities. And that's how it would be simplified. Finally, in the process of approving textbooks, additions and other supplementary teaching resources in the teaching, language and letter of the national minority referred to in the first paragraph, the minister shall appoint expert evaluation groups which are normally made up of scientists, i.e. an expert in a particular field or teaching class and a methodist who knows the language of national minorities. As we see specific amendments that actually speed up this whole process and centralize it if we can say so in the Ministry, because it's easier for everyone, and there's a more stalking practice going on. At the end of the application of the textbooks and the additional resources referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, they shall be approved by the Minister, on the basis of the opinion of one expert evaluation group, which shall assess whether those textbooks and additional funds are in accordance with the provision of Articles 4 and 3 of this Act, which shall, of course, apply to all other textbooks. And the sixth amendment, how to implement the procedure for the authorisation of textbooks, textbooks and other supplementary educational means which have been translated into the language and letter of national minorities, as well as textbooks and supplementary educational resources imported from the native people, period of approval, composition, appointment and method of work of expert and judgment groups referred to in this Article shall be prescribed by the Minister. Next, there was one, we suggested one third amendment. Where the subject of the approval procedure is a textbook and a supplementary teaching tool in Article 7 published in the catalogue referred to in Article 18 of this Act, which has been translated into the language and letter of the national minority in..., the initiation of the procedure shall be applied and then a whole series of items which apply to the number of printed copies shall be the decision of the relevant county expert council of teachers, certificates, statements by the publishers of the admission of the right to issue a translation, subsistence of the approved textbook, etc. What is most important is to specify who makes the decision on the selection of textbooks and supplementary national funds in the catalogue for the translation and use of teaching and language and letter of national minorities and to clarify the obligations of participants in the process. And at the end of the fourth amendment. The rules referred to in paragraph 3 shall be amended in Article 34(3) of the Regulation referred to in Article 6(6) of Article 8 in order not to designate this law, and the Minister shall adopt within 30 days until the date of entry into force of this law, and the other implementing rules under this Act shall be adopted by the Minister within a year of the date of entry into force of this Act, in fact a year for the Ministry to adapt, i.e. the procedure to be adapted. In the debate, what is most important is that all of those proposals were submitted to the amendment, and at the meeting of the Committee of Representatives agreed on amendments and additions, of course in one global form. Well, now that we've agreed globally with the board, we'd be waiting for the minister to determine according to these amendments. In the final debate, an clarification was requested regarding the provision of textbooks for students with developmental difficulties located in centres for education and education. Namely, these centres are located in the system of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and it is determined that students with special educational institutions in those institutions are educated according to standard tailored and special programmes. However, there is no division of competences between the Ministry of Health and Social Care, whose system also includes the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the centres themselves when it comes to the determination of textbooks, so this is the question of harmonisation that will be used for education of students with developmental difficulties or the process of obtaining textbooks because there is still no teaching standard for that category. It is also pointed out that Article 2 c. defines the geographical, geographical atlas as an additional teaching tool to indicate both the reflex atlas and the globe and other relief aids for blind students who have been used in many countries for a long time. It is pointed out in the end that the obligations of the Republic of Croatia arising from the signed and ratified Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, that all educational and teaching means must be made available to students with disabilities in an accessible form. The final draft of the law was proposed by the Committee by a majority of 8 votes in favour of and one abstentions to propose to the Croatian Parliament that it be adopted to pass the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49269	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the national minority club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister's colleagues and fellow MPs. The National Minority Club will support certain adoption of this law even though we are aware that from 2001 until 2009 we changed the Law on textbooks. Not only did the number of textbooks increase the number of available teaching tools until the absurdity that we received music textbooks for the 1st grade that children could not read, the prices grew especially when the textbooks started paying the Republic of Croatia, or from the state budget, as if those funds had fallen from someone else, and not that they had to do so to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Moto was always to encourage the creativity and freedom of choice of teachers themselves, and the result we all know, we had literally one anarchy on the market where we had 7 to 8 textbooks for a lower class, where we had 3 to 4 textbooks in the same school and normally every year a new choice often and a new publisher. Now it's set by the ministry a new goal and we certainly welcome it because what first wants to unload the student bags even though that motto is not set for the first time now, but we were witnessing that the kits and bags were still getting harder. It is really good that this law will allow for the succession of textbooks, but by choosing books for 4 years. That a parent’s budget will certainly be disbursed, or that books will be cheaper. It is certainly already this procedure to prescribe the highest price from the ministry good, although I know there will be a lot of objections, and we also discussed it at the club that it is in some way limiting freedom of the market. But if it is a public interest, then it is also given the right to be bound by certain restrictions. It is good to distinguish textbooks from auxiliary teaching tools, it is good to finally prescribe the obligation or optionalness of some supplementary teaching means. Because I say it is very often the freedom of teachers, the freedom of teachers, and the abuse of that freedom and the purchase of something from which perhaps once a year something in the class looked. However, as I speak on behalf of the National Minorities Club, it has already been said by my colleague Radin on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, since the Committee has dealt with this topic, and above all because of the specificities of textbooks and additional educational means for national minorities that are certainly specific, and we know that today more than 5,000 children in Croatia are covered by various forms of teaching in minority languages and that this number is growing. I just want to stay here for a little while on those textbooks, because practically national minority schools use de facto three types of textbooks. They use textbooks we call authorial, although all textbooks are authoritative, but those written in minority languages and we have authors within Croatia, and we call them copyrighted, and they are certainly covered by Articles 11 and 13 or all of those rules and regulations that apply to each textbook published in Croatia. We have another kind of textbooks, which are translated textbooks that normally had to be for them, there are additional rules, because it must certainly be asked for the consent of the publishers that this book can be translated or used in translation, and in addition, such a book if translated and asked for one supplement, and this is an addition to such a book that then represents or processes matter or program related to the specificity of the national minority. And we have a third kind of textbook, or if there's no textbooks on our market and if the school doesn't have secure textbooks in the language and letter of the national minorities, it can introduce them. In this regard, imports have raised the biggest dust, but I think that the amendments proposed by the National Minority Representatives' Club, supported by the Committee, which as far as I know the Ministry of Education have really been prescribed every detail so that there can be no surprises. Namely, such textbooks must also be conducted by the panel appointed by the minister to analyse or ultimately approve them by the minister. And what is more important is that whoever imports such textbooks, which may be either a minority publisher or suggests importing an association representing the largest number of minorities, that there must be a statement that the imported textbook will be completely adequate to the one that the panel of verdicts assessed, or the one approved by the minister. Therefore, all insurance is given that you will not be able to use a textbook that does not comply with our program, or with the program when it comes to history or anything else that is not taught in our schools. So I think we've reached one satisfactory level, that minority schools have textbooks. But when we talked about it as well, there was another problem, and that was that minority textbooks were with a little story like the textbooks for students with special needs, that we were here to say full 15 years of work to finally get some textbooks to translate them and now that very often these textbooks along with the supplemental workbook were printed together, it would turn out that we would have to give up these textbooks. As we know that it is better to have any kind of textbook than any textbook, and if it fits the programme, I hope that the ministry will accept this amendment so that textbooks and additional teaching tools that are approved and printed in the language and letter of the national minorities, and textbooks and additional teaching tools for students with developmental difficulties can remain in use until new textbooks and additional teaching tools are approved. Namely, why we've been looking for it, I've already said it. On the one hand, it happened that we'd run out of textbooks. On the other hand, there has been a lot of effort and a lot of money and translation, writing textbooks in minority languages that are adapted to the Croatian programme, which can really serve. Their only mistake is that here they are together and the textbook and means the supplemental workbook, and we're going to have to bear this here as our own burden, but I think it's a far more quality solution than working without a textbook. Therefore, I will repeat once again that the National Minority Club will support the adoption of this law and already by giving the opportunity to use printed textbooks in this year, because it has given the limit that indeed every textbook that has chosen more than 10% of schools can be used in the market this year or that part of already invested work and part of the funds can be used and there is really no reason not to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49271	Thank you very much, ma'am. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49272	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. In front of us is the final draft law on textbooks for elementary and high school. The fact is, indeed, whenever it comes to education, it's about opening dynamic polemics. Why? It's very simple. In the developed world and thus in Croatia, education is considered to be the strength of a society that can improve our standard, which can improve our efficiency and therefore break spears. This was also the occasion when this law was passed since the first reading, between two readings and during the second reading. The facts say that textbook issues have been causing great attention both in the public and in the professional public for several years, so the ministry has set three important goals and it seems to us that through this debate it will also be achieved. The proposed law will achieve the following objectives. Lower price of textbooks, possibility of inheriting textbooks, easier school bag. There's a question of how. Well, we could explain a little bit. The lower price of the textbooks is thought to be achieved by this law in such a way that the minister determines the highest level of the price of textbooks that no textbook and any supplementary teaching agent included in the catalogue must cross. Taking into account the cost of making textbooks and the margin of publishers, the final choice in schools is made by professional actors who, in their choice and only in terms of price, have to get the previous opinion of the Council of Parents and that is to improve this debate so that it is reduced. When it comes to the possibility of inheriting textbooks, then this goal is achieved by prescribing the obligation under which one selected textbook at school level must be applied for a minimum of four years. It is also achieved by prescribing the obligation to choose textbooks at the level of professional activities, i.e. schools. Regardless of the number of teachers from, for example, Croatian language in one school in use, there must be only one textbook in Croatian. That's the important newspaper that hasn't been before. Easier learning bag is also achieved by adopting a Regulation on compulsory textbooks and belonging to supplementary teaching tools that will be prescribed by the textbooks and supplementary teaching tools for individual teaching subjects to be considered mandatory for use in the follow-up. Here, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, I would like to point out that even during the first reading between the two readings and during the second reading, there is a strong controversy in the objectives of this law that I have read. How do you accomplish that? It is not simple and the simulations that come out of this law say that all the subjects around this project will survive, which is very important. I believe that since the first reading, this law has been significantly improved. The debate complemented some of the solutions that were held on the parent board in particular, so that we even had a follow-up session and finally brought 13 amendments that seemed to me to have significantly improved this legislative proposal, and I will talk about these amendments a little later, but from the first to the second reading, and that debate that is taking place in this House of Commons seems to be well highlighted by what the promoter has accepted and some important dimensions of the first reading where some failures have been raised. For example, when drawing up the final proposal, the Proposer adopted most of the remarks made by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and parliamentary representatives that were presented. I think it's very important to say about the public competition. In the final proposal, the Proposer amended the provisions on the mandatory tendering of a public tender, setting as a criterion for selecting textbooks the lowest offered price of textbooks. It was a big problem, and it was a lot of controversy, and in the final election, they only went by to offer textbooks that offered the lowest price in the public tender process. In view of the fact that the discussion took the view that it is in such a way that the autonomy of teachers and teachers in the choice of textbooks is limited and that the minimum price criterion is set at the expense of the quality, the applicant, in the final proposal, prescribed that the ministry should publish a public call for the inclusion of textbooks and related supplementary teaching tools in a catalogue at which only those textbooks who were declared by at least 10% of teachers and teachers who, as a final retail price, provided the price which does not exceed the amount published at the highest level of prices. That's how this dilemma was solved. It should also be said that the applicant has also amended the provisions of the proposal for a law on textbooks for elementary and high school which was prescribed that only two textbooks, which in the public tender procedure, highlight the lowest price, receive the option of choice at the level of professional active schools. Therefore, the final proposal stipulates that all the textbooks and the corresponding educational means for which more than 10% of the teacher/teacher has been declared in the teacher’s declaration process. This seems to be good, and thus competitiveness will be much higher, and these textbooks will find their application, and those who delivered the final retail price in the public call process in a way envisaged by the final proposal. The applicant therefore left the school’s professional activities to ultimately choose any of the textbooks listed in the catalogue, but with the consent of the Council of Parents who should agree to the choice of professional assets only in terms of price acceptance. So they drop all those remarks. This morning I got some from the school system on this issue, so the Board of Parents is not discussing the quality of the textbook but only the price and giving it, I think it's an advisory opinion of teaching. Where an expert activity cannot make a decision on the selection of textbooks and related supplementary educational means, or where the Board of Parents does not give prior opinion as to the acceptance of the price of selected textbooks and the related supplementary educational means, a legislative presummation shall be prescribed under which the selected educational means are considered to be a particular teaching subject of those textbooks and the related supplementary teaching tools which have been selected in the highest procedure by the expert activity and by the Board of Parents who have agreed in the area of the county in which the school in which the selection could not be carried out. The fact is, this is a very complex and complicated procedure, but obviously it couldn't have been any different. What I find even more important is that the applicant accepted the suggestions resulting from the debate in the Croatian Parliament and the HDZ Club in due time and prescribed a permanent ban on receipts, but also from donations by publishers in all phases of the evaluation process of textbooks and supplementary curricula, i.e. the inclusion of textbooks in the catalogue and prescribed penalties for non-compliance with the provisions on the ban on giving and receiving of donations. There's something else to point out, but I think this is the most important thing that's been discussed. And it seems to me that we can't get around some of the problems that have led to the controversy between the two readings, especially the deadlines, about so-called. book lagers and textbook quality. There was an expert controversy about it, and that seems right to me. The deadlines are because this is a transitional year, the year in which it will be necessary to stabilise the already existing textbook problem and put on a new one because for the next school year it is necessary to get textbooks. On the other hand, it seems to me that the lager books, popularly said, are textbooks that the publishers failed to sell last year for a variety of reasons and claim to have a large percentage of those books on the lager, and this is indeed one civilizational question that these books do not fail but are used in Croatian schools because they are approved. And I think that's what the big controversy was about. There are claims to be more than 50% of primary school books and 75% of high schools. And on the board, we clearly warned the ministry to find a solution. It seems to us that this solution has been found. Also the quality of textbooks. That's something you can't get around, because we heard here today that the textbook is the basic product of every curricula, the curical policy. Therefore, it is to be expected that when it comes to the textbook that this problem is as dynamic as anywhere where science and profession work. We know that Croatia just six months ago received an interdisciplinary field of science that has not been established or educated so far. We know that in this complex and teaching course methodology has become science, therefore the problem of textbooks is a scientific topic. In this regard, all those who say that this law will experience its changes, it is a logical sequence and it is something that should be done. But the awakening, it seems to me before me that before me the lady was talking about, what rising prices and the growth of material was unnatural exactly the moment that the Croatian state decided to buy and to affirm in the Croatian public that Syntagma of free textbooks which is completely incorrect. There are no free textbooks but there are textbooks that depend on who pays, whether the state pays, the parent pays, the county. So this textbook has its price, and in Croatian society, we need to know the importance of the textbook, its price and the way it comes to it. Publishers suffer a great deal of damage to me because they are often called, but in Croatia we do not have any institution that produces textbooks other than publishers. Some countries have agencies, they have institutes, but these are facts we need to raise awareness of. It seems to me that even, Mr. Minister, and distinguished MPs, are above the law. It's a civilization fortune, it's a culture of life. We put ourselves through it, show ourselves to the world how we feel and see it. In that regard, I think that those who are rigid in the debates are wrong and do not allow where this creation must happen. Why am I bringing this up now? Because in our discussions, from first reading to second reading, and through the board, it's been broken. Therefore, we are entering a new experience that we have tried to simulate through the law and it will have its application in practice, but we are obliged especially to deal with the profession and science and education of this product sophisticatedly develop because it is a zero point related to our curricula policy, especially in compulsory school, especially in primary and secondary school. Let me point out here just some thinking about the amendment tabled by the board, the parent board after a lot of reflection. I think that through these 13 amendments, our committee, which the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports, has significantly improved content. So in Article 3, I would like to mention this, and with the desire to strengthen that goal that we set at the beginning, it is explicitly added to Article 3(1), which is amended to add a new paragraph 2 which reads: in all classes of the same class to one teaching class, and in use there can be only one textbook and additional teaching tool of the same author, group of authors or publishers. This wanted to make it clear in the final proposal of the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks, it is necessary to make it clear and precise that in all classrooms of the same class for one teaching class in use there can be only one textbook because we know that there was a great cry. So that's what we've been doing for many years. I think this definitely solves the problem. In addition, Amendment 4 of the Committee relating to Article 8, which refers to the procedure for the authorisation of textbooks and supplementary teaching tools for schools conducting all teaching courses in a foreign language, textbooks and supplementary funds with a small coverage and textbooks and supplementary teaching tools for students with developmental difficulties, shall be implemented by the Ministry. The earlier solution was that it was carried out by the agency, it returned to the ministry because the ministry rightly has more experience in this, and it is one special substance. And this amendment, which has been redesigned, as I would say, solves this problem which is very important for the introduction into the Croatian society of textbooks from foreign countries. In this regard, the procedure here is clearly prescribed and there is a commission to verify such a textbook. It's very important because there can be some things we don't want to hear. But that's the reality we live in, and this commission has to stop it. Therefore, I believe that this redesigned amendment has been well resolved. And finally in the end, I see that we're at the end of the line I want to make it clear, we're entering a new partial experience. We've had a lot so far. I can tell from personal experience that a few years ago, we had an extremely good book code. Why did the former minister change it and bring it into this situation? I don't know. It was even a theatre recent presidential campaign about this. But I think we're in a difficult situation right now that needs to be brought out of civilization. I'll be right there. [[- Intruder President: Finish Mr. Representative.]] And the textbook must become the civilization value of Croatian people and all citizens in Croatia. That's what I'm saying. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the adoption of this law along with the amendment committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49273	We had one correction, Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49274	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my esteemed colleague Šetić that there are huge quantities of unsold textbooks left on the lagers for various reasons. These were not all sorts of reasons, but the reason for the unsold textbooks was to give up the ministry of then-Primorac's minister from a signed memo with publishers and politicians to buy all the books to their children.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49275	Thank you. It is up to the SDP club and Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49276	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. If we've been dealing with one law here in the Parliament for the past three years, then we've been dealing with the Bookbooks Act. The law was passed in 2006. We changed it three times after that in 2006, then in 2008 and then in July. When the law was passed in 2006 and the same story was repeated on the occasion of any amendments to the law, from the government, the ministry promised us fewer books, cheaper books and easier bags. Unfortunately, we warned the SDP about this in every debate. After any changes to the law, we had more books, more expensive books and harder bags. Now almost the same ministry configuration again proposes a law that promises cheaper books, fewer books and easier bags. The experience but also the study of the bill suggests that this will not happen again, and since we from the SDP after 4 attempts have no valid reason to believe that in the fifth attempt there is enough and will and ability in almost exactly the same people who have proposed to us and the past 4 solutions that have proved to be unsuccessful we in the SDP will not support this bill. My colleagues and colleagues, we had this attitude about this law in the first reading of the law. However, although the proposer gave up some of his main proposals from the first reading that were highly controversial in the second reading. For example, that provision only has two parallel textbooks, such as the proposal to make the lowest price a final selection criterion. Since the text of the final draft of the law does not include the key expertise and observations of many MPs, and some new equally controversial institutes have been introduced which were not included in the first draft of the law, which resulted then in numerous amendments and parent committee proposals, but also other interested committees and legislators themselves, the law cannot receive our support in its final form. About these details a little later, and now a few principled remarks. In education it is particularly devastating to do things wrong and in the same wrong way to bring politics because it is a very large system that includes very many people. And that's how upside down in education you keep doing. First, you passed the Law on textbooks that I said at first were constantly changing. Then the pedagogical standards, which we are told not to apply at all, nor have we received a report as a Croatian Parliament on their implementation, although it is a legal obligation for the ministry to submit reports to the Parliament. After the standard, we have passed the basic Education Act in elementary and high school, and now we have a new Law on textbooks again, and all this time the only really important document, the National Curricula which determines what is and how is taught in school and what is the content basis for each textbook. This is the only important document we have not brought, or rather you have not brought it. The logic of systems and good education policies would be with us first passed the basic law, then somehow parallel curricula and standards, and then the Law on textbooks and all other implementing regulations. This is how we start with the consequences, because textbooks are the main consequence of the curricula. And, of course, if we don't have a basic document, and we don't have to solve again the problems that we have and that really no one is challenging and that really needs to be solved. Because in the learning area of a colleague and a colleague, we really have a lot of problems. From the SDP, we strongly advocate that these problems are indeed solved, because we are fully convinced that the current chaos with textbooks is the most harmful to children, but it affects their parents as well. In the opening statement, we also heard the Minister’s kind of grief about how we have too many books and how expensive they are. We of the SDP, in the most part, can agree with these wrinkles. But what we haven’t heard is how this problem occurred and who is responsible for it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, not a single book, so to speak, neither did that book over-the-counter come to our schools, so it fell from Mars. Every book, including the one too numerous, and the one we now pronounce unnecessary has been approved by the ministry. Each and every high price of the book had the support of a direct or indirect ministry. And it has been tragically respected colleagues and colleagues, in recent years when the state has completely unwarrantedly bought all the books for its children and for those who need it and for those who do not need the help of the state, even with publishers and agreed on book prices. Don't negotiate, negotiate. There is even a written memorandum signed on one side by ministry officials, and on the other hand by publishers. Therefore, we in the SDP are very clear where the responsibility for the existing situation lies. For this reason, we simply do not believe that this same team from the ministry will now know, be able and really want to edit this area differently. I can tell the representatives of the ministry there was nothing we could do, that was the law, that's how we had to do it. But the law was proposed by just the ones from the ministry. Those from the ministry have persistently rejected our critical remarks that we have repeatedly warned from the SDP about the many unwanted consequences that we know have proved to be true now. And just one note by the way. We're stockpiles of publishers originally filled with government orders, and then from parents not bought books. Perhaps this great value that stands untapped in warehouses is actually the best picture and consequence of the previously under-developed and then the bad policies of the government. Secondly, with all due respect for all the problems, we in the SDP cannot accept the reasons why the law is passed. The proposer made it very clear in the argument that the law was passed, and that is very exclusively stated, because of the lower price of the textbooks, because of the possibility of inheriting textbooks and because of the ease of the study bag. These are problems, but citing these reasons, the Ministry is actually legalizing its three political paroles of populist implementation. The quality of the textbook throughout the story remains unknown. Dear colleagues from the Ministry of Education Law should only be one of the instruments of education policy which supports the efficiency and quality of educational work based on a modernly designed curricula, i.e. on a document based on what we still do not have in Croatia. Unfortunately, this law in its idea and in the good part of the proposed solutions does not deal with the law that regulates education. How to improve the quality of learning and teaching? How to Integrate Education? This law, on the contrary, is motivated by those elements which could and should be dealt with by the Ministry of Social Welfare or, for example, by the Ministry of Finance. It's not educational law. Of course, I repeat, these problems are not negligible. Of course, they must not be left aside, but with these motives and starting from that motivation we cannot expect a higher quality of textbooks and we from the SDP see another major problem of this law. Two more principles and from the educational public generally accepted remarks that are truly and soundly reasonable for all those who know better about the system of education. First, nothing but nothing in education has yet been able to fix and resolve any or any administrative restrictions. Such attempts at education policies only caused additional problems in schools. Therefore, we in the SDP are completely unclear why the ministry insists on insisting against all experience so far at the administrative limits that this law is abounding. Secondly, it is not always optimal, and there are such examples in this law, that the same solutions respond to the situation, for example in the first grade of primary school where we have very young children and third grade of a high school where the requirements of programs are... children are significantly different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course the law of this type cannot respond to all these finesse, but it can or must show an elementary understanding and concrete flexibility for these particularities. A few on behalf of the SDP club are the biggest concrete objections to this law. Our MPs and MPs will further elaborate some details in their individual discussions. Our first big remark concerns the choice of textbooks in schools. It seems to us that the catch of 22 of this law is, in fact, Article 22 of this law. According to the bill, teachers will definitely no longer have the choice of textbooks to work with. Whatever it is that the representatives of the ministry try to mask us today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the autonomy of teachers in teaching is one of the greatest values in education and as such is guaranteed by our basic Law on Education. According to the procedure imposed by this law, the autonomous choice of teachers comes down to the advisory referendum. It is quite possible in practice, not only theoretically but in practice that a teacher chooses one textbook, that his activity chooses another, and that all ultimately have to work on a third textbook. And it is colleagues and colleagues not only stupid, but also contrary to our best, but also European educational practices. By the way, the advent of teacher autonomy in the choice of textbooks is the re-opening of mass corruption because of the very well-known cases in which, because of these or those interests, directors or actors were pressured by mostly younger teachers or those teachers who were not in one, in the usual track of work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in connection with this recent years, the educational authority has been very anxious to convince the public, all of us here that our school system is the best in the region and beyond, and all changes should be based on free qualified, quality educated and autonomous teachers. But this legal proposal, the lawmaker, and the complete authority again humiliates teachers and reassures them that they are not even able to choose a textbook for their students. Inclusion of parents in a way that they can de facto suspend the choice of teachers and teachers, colleagues and colleagues, one of the most severe injuries of teaching professions. This will most likely change eventually because we have an amendment to the Education Committee, but that is what the ministry has proposed. It should be considered that parents are not experts. Of course, parents must and should be consulted, but as per the ministry's proposal, their word is final and decisive, it is simply not acceptable. That would be just like that, for example. a patient determines the medicine to be prescribed by his doctor. Of course, this example may be small and excessive, but it is simply incompatible for teachers to expect results while taking it away from them to say the fundamental rights and fundamental rights of their choices. Our next big remark concerns the projected four-year sustainability of textbooks during which selected textbooks cannot be changed, followed by a review of the textbooks. First about the inability to change one selected textbook over four years. What if during the first year of application the teachers of the institution that the textbook is simply not good, that it does not correspond optimally to the plan and program, or to the curricula that we do not have? Or that the textbook has mistakes? Or that his graphics and designs do not correspond to the specificities of the students? Because these are all possible scenarios. And now if the Ministry thinks that these are impossible scenarios, that it's impossible for approved books to have such shortcomings, why is a revision of textbooks every four years? More about that audit. Otherwise, the textbooks had an unlimited duration, and their use was not limited to four years. If we want to have the sustainability of textbooks and ultimately allow textbooks to be inherited, it would not be wiser to devote enough time to the initial review and check textbooks before obtaining the approval to use in schools, than to break it through mostly parental wallets, administratively limiting the use to four years, after which all new books actually follow. Our third big remark refers to the proposal from the final text that the minister makes and publishes a decision each year on the highest price of textbooks and related teaching funds. Dear colleagues and colleagues who are prescribed by the minister for the highest price of products from his portfolio, and yet for a product that the state does not buy? This is quite contrary to European standards and standards of the free market. And in conclusion, as I said at the beginning, the SDP club will not support the adoption of this bill. We consider the government's representatives responsible for the current situation, and thus this government and this ministry have lost credibility in our eyes that it can really change the state we're all crying over right now. A condition that really needs quick action, but an action that is thoughtful and professionally justified. Because this law, colleagues and colleagues, is not satisfied with anyone. Not satisfied unions, not satisfied teachers, not satisfied associations of directors, not satisfied publishers. And at the very end, the years of tampering, the under-developed state policy towards textbooks, meeting the populist pre-election criteria, rather than the professional criteria, have brought us into a panic situation today. Our problem becomes what the problem is not or shouldn't be, and the law and state policy only comes down to commercial and market regulation. There is no dictionary about the quality of the textbooks in the law. All that we have discussed in the past on this subject, about the experimental examination of textbooks as well as its evaluations will obviously remain buried somewhere in our Assembly archives forever. Discussions on textbooks of new quality have disappeared, suppressed between interests with the moss of private pockets. Here I would like to say that high-quality textbooks are obtained with quality girlculum, transparent reviewing as the education of teachers and teachers, not any kind of administrative restrictions. It is this practice of administrative restrictions that has led us to today's situation, and I personally find it almost incredible that all proposals from the ministry are still continuing to follow that lead. Because of all this, as well as because the ministry is constantly and spiritually working on further normisation of the already hypernormised process, while at the same time it has not normised the only thing that really needs to be regulated, and these are the outcomes of competence in the education system, we in the SDP have no illusions that this law will bring some quality changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49277	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49278	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations by Mrs. Lugaric. The first allegation is that the autonomy of teachers has been abolished, which is not true. It's the teachers who are their professional actors who choose the final textbook. And another quote that says that the final word has parents, which is also not true. In addition to the previous positive opinion of the Council of Parents. Therefore, both allegations were incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49279	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Minister Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49280	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short, if I may refer to the presentation of the distinguished representative Lugaric. From this whole discussion I can read one single message, which is that we should keep the status quo, that nothing needs to change and that the main problem of this law is that it regulates the maximum price of textbooks. The quality of the textbooks is not mentioned in the law, and with a whole series of legal provisions, and precisely by changing the part that applied to the best-quality textbooks being eliminated by a public invitation, it is respected and amended in this law. I don't know how in previous events, discussions and past topics when it comes to textbooks, no one has ever looked back at the price and we always call for some kind of competition, on Europe, on inhibition. I don't know who we're protecting. We're protecting the part that should make a profit on the free market regardless of the public interest. And finally, it is also a task of this honorable House, but also of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to protect the public interest in which textbooks are certainly part of it. A whole series of comments that had nothing to do with this law. Of course it has to do with the little girl, that it has something to do with some other provisions, and it doesn't have to be regulated by the Bookbooks Act. So I'm reading the whole discussion in one direction, and we don't need to change it, so let's just leave it the way it is. It is always someone else or the same who is responsible for what we have, and it is not necessary to see some shortcomings change and strive to get better and better laws. It saddens me, of course, because we have respected a whole series of positive remarks that came from the opposition and included them in this bill, and you will see that we will accept some amendments that we absolutely believe are going towards improving the law. That is why I am in some way disappointed that everyone in this assembly does not see the absolute positive, noble and responsible intensities of the motions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Permanent Laws to seek to improve not only the social order in the Republic of Croatia but all those segments that contribute to the improvement of its citizens. So are teachers, but so are parents and children we have to look after. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49281	Thank you. We have a correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49282	It is not the correct quote of the respected minister that our position is that nothing should be changed and that the status quo should be maintained. In my debate, I have just advocated a dramatic change. Because with an existing plan and a program from which every book is derivatives, we can't expect anything different because every book is conditioned by plan and program. And until we change it, or until you bring it in, the new little girl will be the status quo. And that's the point of the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49283	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HSS club, distinguished representative Boris Klemenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with your associates. As far as this law is concerned, we all know that the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school since 2001, when it was first adopted, has been exposed to many changes so far. All these changes affected the continuous increase and number of textbooks, as well as the number of supplementary teaching tools and the prices that have been tripled in certain cases for the purchase of textbooks. As in the debate in the first reading in this bill, we will now remember all together I believe all those parents who waited in line for days, and very often there would be no books for which they came, or books for their children. Let's also remember the beginning of the school year, it was prolonged to say so by October 1st because the students didn't have or could have textbooks in time. This law should address several existing problems related to school textbooks, and the proposer particularly highlights 3 objectives to be achieved by the proposed law. Lower prices of textbooks, the possibility of inheriting textbooks and a lighter study bag, we hope for the very quality of textbooks. However, it is important to highlight the fact that after the first reading discussion, the applicant adopted most of the comments made at the time. Among those remarks was the one presented by the HSS Representatives' Club, which refers to the deadlines for printing textbooks, correcting possible errors and finally putting textbooks into retail. According to the rulings offered by the law in the first reading, the deadlines were rather vague and it was not clear when the textbooks could be found in retail or when they were available to parents. The HSS Club then proposed on August 1st as an indicative date, and with the aim that parents have enough time to obtain all the necessary textbooks and related additional funds until the start of the new school year. On this occasion, we welcome the fact that the applicant in Article 25(1) has made the obligation to make the textbooks and the related additional funds available in retail by 15 June at the latest. We think that this is a reasonable deadline and parents will have plenty of time to get everything needed for the school year without crowds, waiting and nervousness and believing that respect for these legal provisions will permanently solve all the problems that parents face every school year. Furthermore, the HSS Representatives Club received objections from some teachers who referred to the teacher’s statement, or teachers, on the suitability of textbooks and related supplementary teaching tools for use in the teaching and educational process. Teachers, or teachers, have pointed out the problem of interpersonal relations in school activities, and have pointed out that it will be an extremely big problem to choose a quality textbook and a follow-up teaching tool precisely because of potential conflicts between each other. As well as the fact that many of them are textbook authors themselves and that there will be great pressures to select those textbooks that correspond to individuals whether they are teachers or teachers, whether they are school principals. From the proposed solutions, to read that the Proposer of this Law is likely to be aware of these possible problems and dissatisfaction of teachers and teachers, and in Article 17(5), I am suggested to quote: “The school teachers and teachers consider them textbooks and related supplementary teaching tools for which at least 10% of teachers or teachers are declared to be present in the declaration procedure.” It is also necessary to highlight the provisions of Articles 30, 31 and 32 which prohibit all schools including all teachers, teachers, directors and other professional staff of the school of receiving all forms of donations and other forms of material support by publishers whose textbooks and related supplementary teaching resources are listed in the list, catalogue or final list. Article 31 provides that inspection of the implementation of this Act shall be carried out by the Educational Inspectorate of the Ministry. And Article 32 is prescribed penalties for infringements of the provisions of this Act. To believe that these mechanisms are sufficient to prevent and ultimately sanction any form of influence, pressure or other of this law of prohibited actions on the choice of textbooks and additional teaching means. The above remarks also point to the fact that the vast majority of teachers or teachers tend to use the same edition of textbooks and for more than 4 years, and in fact a large part of them do so. Finally, it may just be necessary to point out that the Club of Representatives of the HSS will support the adoption of this Law, and we believe that this Bill is greatly improved compared to the previous and to believe that in practice it will not only receive good results but will realise the lower price of textbooks, the possibility of inheriting textbooks and easier learning bag as outlined goals. With one request, Mr. Minister, given that the art map is not listed as an additional teaching tool we have had a lot of questions, I believe that in the final word you will explain why the art map is not side by side of the workbook, collection of tasks, geographical atlas and historical atlas.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49285	Thank you. It is next to the HNS Club of Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49286	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In addition to the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, with the Labour Act, only a few more laws, this Law is at the very top of those where we have had countless interventions. Mails, faxes, letters, phone calls, probably it's not just about me, our club, it's about all of you. We'd like them to start with one message, with one warning, hopefully you'll agree with us. In fact, the school textbook is not and must not be a place for a clean competition, that is a significant point. The State must ensure that the content of the textbooks is in line with the plan and the teaching programme, the state must ensure that the textbook meets certain technical standards, the state must make sure that at the cost is acceptable to the standards of our citizens, the state must ensure that the profession plays a decisive role in the choice of textbooks, the state must ensure that parents can and must express their opinions, the state must ensure that publishers have their own economic interest and the state must ensure that they do not change titles and authors from year to year, but that the same textbook is used as long as possible. We have to say that with this bill of law, a step has been made, a shift has been made, the needs of a number of interested parties are met, whether these shifts are sufficient to get us into it. But we have to say what was bothering us at the HNS Club. We were troubled that we didn't know until a few days ago, which Minister Primorac signed earlier in the memo, promised the publishers. We didn't know if the warehouses were full of textbooks and textbooks. We didn't know what kind of disorder would happen if there was a radical procedure and a change in the basis of this Law, and we didn't know that we would have enough time to do all the preparations and organizational activities in the autumn to implement this law properly. Finally, we were deeply plagued by the issue that SDP colleagues have raised with the full right national curricula, where and what will then be the consequences of textbook policy. I must say that we have made a great deal of effort on the parent committee, we are pleased that colleagues on other committees have considered and have made a very serious approach to the analysis of each article of this Law and made their contribution through a number of amendments. The minister gave us all a copy of the memo that we have insight into what was previously agreed with the publishers. The secretary of state and the secretary of state made an effort to show us a detailed diagram of how to convince us that the work could be done seriously and comprehensively by autumn. Of the 30 amendments and some amendments, most of these amendments have been accepted, some are not even some significant amendments, but we must honestly say that a large part is. We only had two additional amendments yesterday morning on the home Board of Education, a very serious amendment that we dedicated again for hours and a half. It was about the role of professional activity and the position of parents. I think we've done this job seriously and I can conclude colleagues and colleagues that a shift has been made, that the shift will be significant if all partners properly and in time do their part of the commitment. The job we have no illusions is not over. There's a lot more to go on, especially after the national curricula. Finally, I repeat once again in front of the HNS Club, the school textbook is no place for a clean competition. Practice will soon show whether or not we have achieved our desired goals. When we do an analysis of what has been achieved in the fall and the next school year, Mr. Minister, we must be extremely objective to admit if there are any failures and return the law to completion. This is the minimum obligation we have for students, for parents, for education and through education of the future development of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49287	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDSS Club, distinguished representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. First, I would like to commend one situation, so it is not often that the defence of the law on behalf of the promoter comes personally to the minister, but this time you have come in full form, I think. Therefore, I respect your gesture and I appreciate it as a fact that you care very much that this law of yours is properly presented. We at the SDSS Club are quite clear as the rest and all that education with all its elements is basic or one of the basic and essential pillars of society. What we have read and heard many times should also be modern in accordance with the trends that apply and that are ahead of us, it must be lifelong. And what's most important to me in this situation is that it needs to be accessible to everyone. I may say something here that will like it or not, I have to say that I would like it to come some time when that education would be similar to that when my generation had the opportunity to educate, so that when they could equally educate the children of workers and children of some directors then, etc. I don't know if that time will come, but I had a need to say it on this subject. In these times of crisis, textbooks should not be a factor that makes education so difficult today. So, the very fact that they are the basic element of this education must not be like a colleague said a clean market category around which business will be made. That's why I think this law is welcome and I think you responded correctly to the previous changes we had in 2009. We at the SDSS think that with this legal text, two basic objectives have been achieved. First of all, what we're looking for, which we think is also quite appropriate in today's situation, is that the textbooks are being restarted, so that the competition is being opened every four years. So they can last four years, they can last longer if it's an assessment and if it's necessary and I say Colloquially they can be inherited. It's not what I think is very important, because life tells us that parents are especially established and high school preparing children for each school year should almost raise loans to prepare themselves, to get dressed and to buy all those and textbooks and all the accompanying elements that were prescribed as necessary. And the second thing, the second effect that we have achieved by this law, is that it is important to reduce the impact of the publishers. According to what we know how informed publishers have been able to draw textbooks every year, almost every year and theoretically and practically, to print new textbooks. That's what happened after all. The impression is that it is still a kind of good business, because besides these funds for such things are secure in the budget and are secure in the home budgets and home budgets of the parents who are placed in the situation take or leave. That something was wrong, the promoter saw it correctly and I think it was finely defined in the definition of Article 14 where an institute of conflict of interest was introduced. Also in Article 30, where the collection of various donations, "material support" was introduced to individuals and schools by publishers, etc. I don't think that comment is particularly necessary. What material support it should be to school teachers by publishers in that category of work. About the text itself, I would refer to some four articles, through some kind of our vision. In any case, Article 6 of which my colleagues and the National Minorities Club spoke, we fully support the initiative and amendments they have made, that it is not the agency that will carry out this whole process of selecting textbooks rather than remain with the ministry. Because we think that the ministry has a fully built infrastructure in that sense and that it is not necessary to transfer it to the Agency's sphere now. We also think that it is in obtaining advice for national minorities according to a special law that I don't think it should be some legal provision, because the advice for national minorities is primarily not responsible for these things. Secondly, I am a member of the National Minorities Council and would not allow myself and take the right to comment on books and textbooks in Italian for several reasons not to talk about it now. Mostly I don't consider myself competent for that thing. And I don't think the advice should be about these things. Article 7. I believe that it should be corrected in paragraph 3 where the subject is said to be spoken of as importing textbooks and it is said that the subject of pressure on a copy of the translated textbook, or an additional teaching tool, should be attached. I think there's a mistake here, you shouldn't be here. The "translated textbook" should be removed, so the definition of "three printed copies of an imported textbook" should stand. It's one nomotechnical correction that we think would be more appropriate. In Article 19, it was disputed here in the proposal's debate that the minister would determine the above price of textbooks and related teaching tools. We think that this is good because we have knowledge and we have information that in the previous model the publishers themselves have determined, practically self-determined the height of these products with a clear kind of consultation, but did not have any particular obligation to report to the Ministry on the structure of that price, the cost structure, etc. So I don't think it's bad for the ministry to be some kind of controller of these extremely critical upper limits of the costs of those products that can't be breached. That's why I think this provision is good anyway. And besides, you've given yourself a very nice task here to ask for the opinion of the publishers, the association of publishers, which I think is correct, it's the only thing that I don't really understand is whether that opinion is binding for you as an institution or if it's just a kind of coloquial opinion. And to say something about this right now, I need to say a few facts to help shed light on some things or to get to know the public about the fact that the Serb national minority is using in education by A, B and C model, which is prescribed by law and textbooks that are also translated, which are also author's textbooks, but among other things, textbooks that are also imported. What I need to say is that thanks to the Ministry, all these textbooks are both translated and copyrighted are not for the end-user, so for parents more expensive than the textbooks of the domestics, so to speak the coloquial home textbooks and even the imported textbooks are even much cheaper because they are made according to the standards of the queen in which he is cheaper. A category of imported textbooks that is so media-like at one point tried to be negatively exploited. So, imported textbooks for members of the Serb national minority are imported only for Serbian language for elementary school and high school, which is eight sets for elementary school and four sets of textbooks for high school, and are imported for religious science and eight books. So that's some fact I don't know if she was famous for. For the following year, mainly all basic school textbooks will be author's textbooks from domestic markets. The imports will mainly include minority textbooks for high school and textbooks for religious science. Therefore, there is no need to make any unnecessary name about it, apparently that category of publishers tried to manipulate these facts. If I've been able to work things out with this data, I'm satisfied. Finally, we at the SDSS Club think that this text of the law is acceptable to us, we will support and use this opportunity to thank the ministry together with the co-workers for fully understanding this moment's problem with the minority education system and the situation in which the education of the Serb national minority is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49289	Thank you. I'm announcing that we've finished our clubs, that at 11 o'clock and 4 minutes, the time has elapsed to apply for individual debate. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary esteemed Želimir Janjic at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49290	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Let me just take a brief look at the debate that was conducted by clubs and actually start with that when it comes to the teaching problem, if this were to be addressed to the market and if it were just a question of the market and the competition of publishers, then we should not bring the law in the Croatian Parliament at all or regulate it legally. Since it is a public interest and the Croatian Government of all ministries, the Croatian Parliament is obliged to protect the public interest, for this very reason we must regulate this matter legally. And when we regulate this matter legally, then we are truly all invited to say our position and to make a commitment to this public interest and to protect it. When I say that, I don't mean most of you in the House, but I mean all of you respected MPs and MPs on all the committees that you're discussing. I will remind here that we have changed this law many times since 2001, and that is true in the procedure of what it is worth in those times. In the parliamentary committees, when we look at the structure of 13 members of the 7 members, there are positions and 6 members of the opposition. Many times a representative in the Croatian Parliament is unable to attend the meeting of that committee when a particular matter is being discussed and someone in Brussels can happen, that there is elsewhere and that the composition that will vote on a particular law is equal to that of even most of those in the opposition. Such situations are respected gentlemen in this practice when it comes to this problem from 2001 to today. So I'm going to remind you at the last session of the parent committee, which as the parent working body discussed the adoption of this law, were prevented by all SDP colleagues. So they discussed the others even though there were representatives of the opposition of course. So, what I'm saying is that we're all invited and we all create. And many times when certain changes were made in this matter, then it happened that, compared to what the Proposer suggested, that some things change significantly, and that's what we're witnessing, that's what you're all witnessing. So we're all interested, and we all have a duty to worry about that in particular. And you see, during this practice so far, what has been crystallized, and what we know in the public is that the school bags are difficult, that the little ones don't wear them many times, but they pull them around on wheels, we have a situation that makes it impossible to inherit textbooks and that from year to year they have to buy new ones because the parallels have worked each by their own means and we have a situation that they're honest and they all felt prices too high. These three things that are in public at this point, in the professional public highlighted as the most important we have tried to resolve by passing such a law. So when we talk about easier bags we're talking about right now, we're talking about packages where we have five or six books for one item, and the captain of that class is maybe two hours a week. Believe me, this will also be confirmed by our teachers and teachers, that many times it happens not to arrive during the year everything consults because it has gone too far. I'll ask you a question. If we have a textbook in 1st grade, we now ask ourselves many times what to do with it. I'll remind you of only one thing, so the textbook there exists for a specific subject from someone's education, but there's only one minor problem, a small port hasn't yet learned to read. So we need to decide very seriously and responsibly whether something in a class currently needs or may be an auxiliary teaching tool that the teacher will eventually propose to parents. But necessarily it's questionable. Whether there should be six books with the textbook or be less let us decide, if we want to achieve this goal. And that's justifiable, it's not a question of quantity, it's actually a quality-inflicted thing. When it comes to inheriting, you see it would be great if we were in such a situation that we could say buy new textbooks every year, but we just didn't. And on the other hand, it's no good if we look at a book for one good, something that can be taken under the culture of one nation, it's not nice to send a message and say, "Let's throw the book away, you know." And therefore, without touching autonomy I will remind you, all approved textbooks are heading towards teachers and teachers, all teachers, all teachers. And they plead to the acceptability of a single textbook. All who receive more than 10% go to that second round in front of professional activities where five Croatian language teachers will agree to offer out of those five textbooks that have passed over 10% of the choice with which they will be able to achieve the best results taking care of their parents, of course. And then it's going to go according to that, Professor Selem said it's written in the amendments, he's going to get to know his parents, he's going to ask for their opinion. It's not binding, but there's one psychological moment that I, as a teacher, perceive all these things and suggest something that's correct, that I can work well with, but respecting some kind of restriction that we have with our parents. And finally when we talk about prices, of course we're interested in making these prices more acceptable. We had a chance to hear, maybe it went too high. And we're witnessing if you want in our society a number of stores to take down prices since last year, so far, this isn't a unique case. So, I'm talking about the 10% less this year, and since 2011, we have a formula that our mathematicians made up and in that procedure that is foreseen by consulting these economic operators that are dealing with this, we're going to come up with a solution. So you can't just say that there's no concern here for both quality and all that I've mentioned before. And it wouldn't be good for us to try to talk about it behind some kind of cover to actually represent something that wouldn't be right at this point. We, respected MPs and MPs, of course when all the amendments come to us to discuss them, and to all of you who spoke on behalf of your clubs, will sincerely thank you for what you have said because this will very much help us to be as clear as possible on the amendments you will submit and will likely affect us that certain amendments you have advocated, which will fix all these solutions and we will accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49291	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Your Honor, Agent Iron Flego, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49292	Mr. Vice President. I'll start with what's of course true. It is true that under proper cover we represent the thesis that we should never and should not represent, in order to come to what is not true. And it's not true, Mr. Secretary of State, that you care about the weight or ease of the school bag, that you worry about textbooks that have nothing to do with teaching being in class for the first year of school, the second year of school. Let me remind you, in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008, in 2009, you were the secretary of state and you approved all these textbooks, so now I'm afraid to wonder where your credibility is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49293	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Now it's an individual debate. There are 17 reported. The first is the distinguished representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49294	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Only Alice gets into Wonderland through the closet. Through this law, we will not enter those solutions that we expect you to actually offer, to respect them, to discuss them and to solve something concerning the vast number of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, both those in the process until the age of such age, of course, those who are parents, educators, educators and employees. Starting with what you didn't even show now, and not even the minister before, that's the question of the National Curricula, all of this is something else. Without the National Curricula any other solution has no substance, it's missing. What's the textbook for, I guess, some kind of curricula. So where's that curricula, so why not this standard, so what's with the curricula again? So somewhere we wanted to get out of wonderland through the closet back into reality, and that's not quite feasible. The intentions that, as you say by the proposed law will be achieved by several goals, lower textbook prices, the possibility of inheriting textbooks, easier learning bag. These are, when you look at it like this, following some elements. Easier student bag that, investing in the school system of the entire school, the space in which students leave these bags and also the way in a lighter school bag and facilitating some transportation of books, textbooks, additional funds. The easier student bag is also a question of whether in some families it will be easier not to have the force of atlas because children will have access to the Internet and will have the last solutions, lastly let's say solutions to some political atlas, not to mention historical ones. The possibility of inheriting textbooks. One of the elements that you state here as very important to this law is also questionable. What will happen to students who will not buy a textbook, who will catch the lectures of their professor, say in a third grade high school, will not buy a textbook, will not be needed, will be informed otherwise, internet cafes, libraries, everything is available. Young people are more networked in part today than these parents who will make decisions about the type of textbook, and I have to say very often both from colleagues and colleagues who may be involved in the course. Education and school isn't just a transfer of mere fiction and knowledge. It is the creation of an understanding of knowledge, the creation is that it does not always mean that the lower price of textbooks will be a better textbook or a higher price. Many things affect whether the textbook is of quality. What I personally think about about this law that you have proposed without a solution, let's say textbooks for students and students with developmental difficulties. We don't have a solution here. There is a question of division of jurisdiction, etc. So, it's unarranged, Mr. Secretary of State, and we should start by saying that we all care that the school is good, and we all care that the school is the basis for the prosperity of society, knowledge and always the knowledge. The second thing I wanted to point out was the question of what you say is the lower price of textbooks, the succession of textbooks and the correlation with the state's graduation. This is where the element was lost. We suddenly have textbooks that will last four years. Whether they will be those textbooks that will really be enough to guarantee that all students in the Republic of Croatia join the state prom under the same conditions of transfer of knowledge. It's an element that would read very well through the national curricula. I'd also like to say something else, and that's the question, the question of the parent's decision and the impact of it. So, we are now aware that in the Republic of Croatia there are parts of cities, and there are counties where better and worse lives, where there are more unemployed, where there are fewer resources in circulation for anything, and so on for the school textbook. If we are not often surprised by this social uncertainty and lack of basic means of life, we will be conducting the quality of the textbooks, so we will have the reproduction of the bad. The school system must always open up a chance, it must always be one that gives every child no matter what means his parents have for progress. Final draft law on textbooks. I'd like you to accept simply the idea that this can still be fixed, Mr. Secretary of State. This law can go to third reading. He's not going to, no one's getting the crown out of their heads. But it's not going to be good if what we already know is not a good thing to set up preconditions for this kind of development, this kind of application. You've introduced the truth here that I can't co-finance the publishers, so it's understood by the power of other laws, simply by the ethics that I guess rules in something that can always be usurpable, I can think of. But leaving it as the greatest range of this law is also wrong. You put everything in the same position that they were subject to I don't know any accessories from the publishing houses. A school book as a commodity is the topic here to discuss. The school book has become a commodity. And the question of tax cuts in certain professions must certainly concern textbooks. About free schooling, i.e. about the right to free textbooks and free schooling at all, we will vary very differently here in this House, probably in certain political options. But the availability of education, the availability of knowledge is one big democratic step for each country. What school should be for me regardless of what textbook is a creative place of creativity, a place where those who carry knowledge must have an open space for creative school. If we have the required textbooks and the prescribed accompanying materials to say so, I wonder how some students or parents who will have the right to respond to that if teachers use copies of some other texts on which perhaps a far better student will understand the matter than to five parallel units from a textbook regardless of how large they were the people who wrote them. And I wonder if, for example, someone would love more chemistry and accept chemistry if they didn't read three pages of the text from Marie Curie Sklodowski's biography and not knocked up by a bunch of formulas or a bunch of technical data they'd soon forget. In that sense, the law that we are passing as, which is before us as a final proposal is not a law that I could support. I would love it if you would accept the third reading, if you would adapt it to the situation that everyone has to have the same rights, the same chances, and if you would avoid this unspeakable part, and if in the end you would show yourself both about the national curricula and the correlation of this entire system, this duration of four years of one textbook and state graduation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49295	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote and two replicas. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So from the presentation of colleague Vac, it turns out that if textbooks are prescribed and there is no creativity of teachers or teachers. That's not true. Teachers have enough opportunities to creatively organise teaching, but it is no wonder that fellow Vac, and probably other SDP colleagues will attack this law, they are against this law, because this is a good law, this is an affirmative law, this is a positive law for parents, and for students who will have easier bags and cheaper textbooks and more generations will be able to use one textbook. We have heard that all parties, both opposition and party positions for this law except the SDP. They have to shoot under that law, it's clear from their exposure, but it's good that everyone else is for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49297	Thank you. There is. Please be careful what he says, he initially said what the correction was, and behind that he gave a brief explanation. So take care of it. And now we have two replicas. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49298	Your colleagues also notice something quite normal that is noticeable by someone who is much less referred to this problem or is not at all directed or already has adult children, and this problem is only followed by this problem. Namely the textbooks, the question of textbooks and the question of the quantity of various textbooks for the same subject logically you bring in connection with the state's graduation, the same preparation, the same content. So the basic question arises, not only with the state's graduation, but in general. This releases one amount of textbooks for one subject the possibility of that choice and all of what you've been talking about for years for what you're responsible for, that amount of textbooks that are now lying in storage essentially when and when you're talking about textbooks we're always talking about publishers. I don't care about the publishers. I don't care what the ministry wants and how much it wants to please the publishers. Never talk about students. When it comes to textbooks, the subject must be students and content for students, not a constant debate on publishers. So what's the word then?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49299	Thank you. I'm sorry you called later. We have to stick to the line. We have another replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Ferić-Vac used your speech where you spoke about textbooks for children with developmental difficulties, to point to an additional problem, the textbooks are only one segment, and it is tragic that the ministry has not passed the rules on work for two years and on conditions of working with children with developmental difficulties, which shows an absolute insensitivity for children who should have one additional treatment in order to allow them to be equally involved in life.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49301	Replica reply, distinguished representative Mirjana Ferić-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49302	Yes, thank you very much. counterpart Antičević Marinovic and counterpart Jovanovic mentioned two elements in my debate and I am glad they pointed out that. What's important is, the tutorial textbook in the correlation with the prom, but let's keep moving forward. Not only with the prom, we're having a national prom today, but we still have the entrance exams. So something in the system doesn't go in such a order, and something has to change, whether it's from higher education to high school, to high school, to high school. And in that element, textbooks as a link should have a far more pronounced element that they are property of knowledge, that they convey knowledge and will to know. The treatment of textbooks, or students with difficulties in this country, is unacceptable. These are human rights which are affected and are inadmissible in a country that has therefore been entered into respect for human rights in its highest constitutional values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49303	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's our guest, Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49304	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I would go back a little bit to first reading so that we could point out a number of problems for which this law should be passed, and support this law and address many of the issues that interest this public, not only from the level of profession, but also as parents, as employees or those who are directly interested. So what was the situation with the textbooks? After the first law was passed in December 2001, changes to the Law on textbooks in 2006 and 2008, including 2009 the number of textbooks, especially the number of additional teaching funds, and prices of 250 kuna, as our media wrote during Minister Vokić up to 750, i.e. last year from 800 to 2 thousand 500 kuna, which should certainly be taken into account. Prices reached by publishers in 2009 and 2010, would cost the country about 740 million, which is a topic that can be discussed not to ask questions about the former minister as well. The textbooks would be chosen by a decision of the expert committees. There was no mechanism or instrument that could reject accepted textbooks or supplementary educational means. It could eventually go back to making a reporter. Thus, the number of textbooks approved for individual classes was increasing. So in the lower classes of elementary school there were up to 7, to 8 textbooks of the same publisher. This did not allow the following generation to inherit textbooks, and that is a big problem that this law now solves. The additional curricula for a particular subject was more numerous, and the bag of course is becoming more difficult, the price of a set of students is increasing. The current law allowed the teacher to choose textbooks and teaching tools every year, which reduced the possibility of inheriting textbooks. The publishers proposed more and more textbooks and additional teaching tools to encourage teachers, or teachers, to use new titles. What is being arranged, or what should be obtained by this law? So we define the concept of textbooks, auxiliaries and approval procedures, the number of textbooks and teaching tools that can be used for one teaching course and programme during the same period. The duration of the textbook is limited, whether lower prices should be achieved, but also years of use. Subjects in the process are both authors and publishers, the first-reading agency now professional activities, teachers and teachers who choose and which textbooks will be used at their school. The law therefore proposes that the student standard prescribes which textbooks and teaching tools will be used, i.e. which are a mandatory legislative proposal, it is prescribed what is considered to be a textbook intended for multi-annual use, e.g. the historical or geographical atlass. This bill also provides recommendations for individual educational means, but also mandatory purchases. Now we're talking about the process of approving the textbook. The expert opinion was given in the first review by the agency now stands out, means the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, which now refers to committees prescribed by the minister. The list of textbooks and supplementary teaching means shall be consistent with the National Curriculum and Training Standard in question, and for the purpose of the teacher’s or teachers’ declaration of suitability for their application. After the completion of the declaration procedure, a list of textbook supplementary educational means will be established for which at least 10% of teachers, or teachers, will be declared. It was a similar procedure to boredom. After the invitation to tender, the ministry will determine the catalogue. So, prices will be able to, and now in this second reading, to say that a series of repairs have been made, that many opinions have been adopted and that the law is acceptable and that it is settled, we can say, regardless of all the objections that have been made so far, but it solves three-quarters of the problems and then we can't build a house now is no good part of the roof, so we're going to tear down the whole house and of course we need to solve the situation. I, in that sense, and I support that the ministry is on its way no matter what the remarks are made here that there are no girls. Which means we should wait for it to be brought and remain the status quo, it's absolutely right and it's unacceptable and unacceptable. We will surely achieve a lighter learning bag by this law, the teaching standard will reflect textbooks, lower textbook prices, I think, and quality. That it will satisfy the question of textbooks and it is not easy to solve, it is complex. But we can't underestimate him like that and say that everything's nothing and that nothing's good about it. So, professional activities at school, the autonomy of teachers, teachers, teachers in high school are not compromised. They are given the option to choose, and it depends on each teacher and teacher in which way he will conduct the course. So he can also use textbooks, but he can also use funds, he can use foreign magazines. It all depends on how much he wants, what school he works in, and how he prepares his students. So it wouldn't be exactly thesis that it's not good preparation for prom. And now the final proposal of the Law on textbooks, so this final bill in this second reading, not to mention because my predecessors have already said, have made a number of improvements for the choice of textbooks, improvements for the choice of price, for the quality. Therefore, nothing is threatened and I can say that I also communicate with a number of colleagues and that this kind of improvement of the law is expected and that it will be acceptable. But of course we can't talk about ideals right now and talk about it let's wait for something, leave it. I am certainly not in favour of remaining a status quo, but to be executed, and as I see the committees have given, I have read all the remarks. The committees have made amendments, I can see that the proposal will adopt them and this is certainly acceptable for me and I will support this proposal for a Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49305	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49306	Dear fellow Mance, at the beginning of your debate, you were talking about how the problem is that we have too many books and that they are too expensive. I can agree with you here, but you did not give a complete answer why. You said it was because the law was the one that made it impossible for some books to get off the list, so to speak. That's right. But there is something else. Why was the law like that? Who suggested the law? HDZ Minister. Who voted the law? HDZ's majority. We of the SDP have not supported any such Law on textbooks. Every time we passed the law, we warned about these problems. Every time you've had an argument, we're not here. Now we're finally gonna figure it out. And after every change of law there were more books and books were more expensive. So don't tell us now, now you're here complaining about the truth, about the fact that you are. Because for that truth and for that fact, you're simply responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49307	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49308	Well, I was in my debate and I said and I assumed that you'd be calling on the former minister and saying what the former minister is, which is the former minister. What can I say? The minister, of course, needs to know the system he's headed. Of course, he also has certain professional services and says during this period for this last minister that he has significantly increased funds. As far as I can see from seven to twelve billion kunas. I put it in advance for you to set it up, which I don't think is correct. We're having a discussion right now. Is this better? This is better and this will solve a number of issues and many problems. He'll do it cheaper anyway. They'll decide we don't have one school, imagine at one school we have seven textbooks in eight classes. So how is that not an improvement? Or we won't get professionally now and we won't get a lower price because the minister will still determine and take into account professional assets. You have your vision of it, I think this is still an important improvement and you shouldn't put the status quo and wait for a new time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49309	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49310	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mance is now not a matter of waiting for some better time or weather I think we should act now and now and here. However, I will return to your exposure. Unfortunately, you missed one important thing, these are children with developmental difficulties. When you said that this law fully regulates the entire area, among other things, additional teaching resources. Sadly, only in Article 8 here does it involve children with developmental difficulties in an inappropriate way. So there is no mention of any teaching means at all, and there is nowhere to find them in the law how this law will solve them. Also, same as the price. No matter how much she spends on blind students in certain textbooks, she's up to 50 times more expensive. Something the ministry is making up for, but unfortunately everything falls under the parents' burden. And we know what times we live in and when someone's been doing a question book on his head for how long he'll have that job. So, I mean, since we're already doing the law that we need to do it honestly, and we don't need the house, not that we don't need to tear it down, but we don't even need to start building it if we're not going to systematically build it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49311	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49312	Well, all right, buddy, I'm not about the difficulties because there's three left. I wasn't talking about textbooks for national minority rights, I wasn't talking about little publishers' textbooks, some vocational schools that exist as well as as a problem because it's not possible to mention them all. After all, the legislators here as well as the other colleagues who talked about it, so I wasn't talking about that 3 because of the very shortness of time and the whole explanation of the law was given by the proposer himself here. I have my own opinion on these stories in my own time, and I know how it was handled the way schools themselves because of vocational schools, because of the specific areas when proposals were made, the ministry approved, and the way it was financed was to manage the schools themselves in order to get such textbooks. Of course I couldn't bring it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49313	I just have to say that's an example of how it's replicated to something that's not said, and it can be replicated to what's only said. Let's move on. We have another replica, and it's a respected representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49314	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Mance, you used the word ideal, you said it wasn't ideal, so I'd like to agree with you here, but it's certainly better than what it was because the fact is that nobody here has anything against the creativity of teachers and teachers, but there has to be some order. I must say that what was not good, and I repeat, was an opportunity for the textbook to pull the publisher out of use, which was simply not acceptable, nor was it acceptable for the textbook to be approved indefinitely. And that's what you were talking about, now it's definitely done, it's made a step. I agree that it would have been good if the curricula had been brought in if it had gone with that hodogram, but we heard from the minister that it was about to happen. Therefore, the shifts are evident, if everyone does their part of the job, in this selection business it is certain that it will be better. It should also be said that democracy is guaranteed, that parents are involved, and that it must simply be emphasized here and the responsibility of both parents and all participants in this process, in that sense I want to support this proposal as much as you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49315	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49316	here it can be expressed, and that these are important improvements and that you should not leave the status quo so that you do not stay here picture that you absolutely need nothing to do and I have given that one assessment that things are solved and that it is good and that in any case I support and I am glad that you recognized and supported in your replica what I was saying. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49317	Thank you. We are continuing the debate, and it is up to the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Many times in the past two years in this House, we have discussed problems, laws that are related to children, young people, schools, so on the education system. We've had strong and long-term discussions that we've agreed on, and we're not more than we are, but if I had to discuss the education and education system now under some common denominator or give a single or general conclusion then I'd say that the debate on any segment of the education system opens up a number of other unresolved problems that this system is about to change. And I believe you'll agree, no matter what we've talked about, the Law on textbooks, the vocational education, adult education, pedagogical standards, would always open up the tap of the problem during the debate. Why is it such a co-worker and a co-worker? I think that because it is simply not possible to improve or solve, or quality to edit one area or one segment of the system if based on which this system rests is not good and quality. One more thing, it is not possible or what happens to us if we do not clearly see the whole, and if we do not clearly see the education system as a unique whole in front of us. If we don't see the whole of the education system as one framework within which we agree with the mosaic, within which we agree and add the elements, then the laws we discuss here and there, in fact nothing fundamental and nothing in the long term solves. And that's what we've been trying to say as the SDP Club for a long time, I'd say at least two years as far as I've been in this Assembly. So, everyone I talked to, and they belong to the profession, agrees with this claim, which is that the Law on textbooks is essential and long-term for the education and education system in Croatia will not change. Someone might say and replicate it not true, it's not true, this law will change a few significant things, and that's as you said Mr. Secretary of State would be cheaper, it'll be easier to bag, it'll be longer textbooks, I could pole around each of those points, however, I would answer something else, which is with the quality of the textbook, who cares about it. And what about the outdated curricula and the programs that someone changes here and there for some political reasons. Perhaps I am not clear enough, I claim that the Law on textbooks is in the context of the education system in fact just one partial solution, is one fragmentary solution, is one fire method, so we don't have to make sure there's chaos on the textbook market, of course there is, he's crossed all the limits of reason and possible and we agree on that, the only thing we disagree on is who's to blame. We in the SDP know. So let me use medical terminology, so I'll say, it's like giving a cancer patient pain therapy, and he needs it because it hurts, but with this therapy you won't solve his problem you won't make him solve his primary illness. So that's what we're talking about at the SDP club. says the minister you want to be status quo. No, not at all, quite the opposite. For two years now, we have been advocating a drastic change, and I do think that you retain the status of quo by partial fragmental solutions or by fire measures for which the notes themselves have caused problems. So what we are trying to explain in this House of higher education is that Croatia faces new challenges, in front of increasingly complex and economic and social and political and conditions and relations. And that Croatia needs faster development in all segments. And we have to ask ourselves if we can do it with this education system, can we? We claim we can't. And we claim that radical changes are necessary. We need to ask ourselves if we can achieve this rapid development that we are seeking the kind of system that we need. We believe that you gentlemen of the ministry have somehow missed a historic chance but also a responsibility to propose a new concept of education system, to redefine the objectives of this system, to modernise teaching programs and projects. Today, we have condemned children to some senseless cremation from which no one makes any sense, perhaps only parents, because by drumming with them just reminds themselves of what they have forgotten. So, the ministry was expecting after a considerable number and attempts and failures had the opportunity and responsibility to come before us with these new things that I mentioned and to implement structural reforms and in some way to stop the ruthless destruction of the system. Maybe I could do it in one sentence. You can't build a house without a good foundation. And we think this law is what we do. We're building something, and we don't have a good foundation. And already several colleagues from my club have warned that before this law was passed, a national curricula would have made sense that we had this law on the bench today. Because the national curricula was supposed to produce a modern textbook. This is how things are actually upside down. There's no Mr. Minister, but tell us, Mr. Secretary of State, why haven't we seen the national curricula before? Are you working on it? If you work for what do you hide it like a snake's feet? When are we finally going to see that national curricula? And what I have to say and I'm going to conclude with that the grief as a scientist, is that as a ministry, you bypass too often science and profession. I believe that they must be key and inevitable in determining strategic objectives and tasks in the field of education and final outcome and competence. We're dealing with some sort of... technically, I'll finish the technical questions while the issue remains fundamentally disputed...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49319	Bring the hearing to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49320	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49321	Wesna Škulić, the distinguished representative, is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A little while ago my colleague said this law was affirmative. I'm going to show that this law is not at all affirmative but even introduces slowly into one discrimination. When we received the proposal of the Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks a few months ago, I was convinced that the promoter would recognize the remarks I referred to as a representative, then as a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and in the name of the Croatian Union of the blind, of course, which most recognize this issue when the matter is blinded children and weak-sighted. But you in the ministry and the government or you don't listen to those directly concerned by this law or you really don't care. Mr. Secretary of State, enough with you in a nice way tried to cooperate, and I think it was one correct collaboration. And I have to admit that there have been some developments in children with developmental difficulties. But whether it's just some shifts or a systematic solution that matters. I think the systematic solution is better and more logical and ultimately not to go into total discrimination. I don't know how familiar you are, and I believe that this law has directly damaged and placed you in a discriminatory position through a system of education of 160 blind students attending elementary and high school. You did not recognize them as a separate group, but you put them in Article 8. which regulates the area of textbooks and supplementary educational resources with a small fee and thus directly violates the right to accessible education, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and any other documents that regulate the area of education of persons with disabilities. At the beginning of this month, the Croatian Association of Blinders sent a letter to the president of the Croatian Government directly addressing him for discrimination and said that the text of the bill does not regulate the publishing of textbooks on Brajlica. Refined geographical maps, globes, etc. It's a special story of the school's belongings. The Croatian Association of Blinds also states that in recent years he has had several meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, where certain conclusions have been made that would allow the matter of the brilliant textbooks to be regulated by a new law. But unfortunately, it never happened. In this regard, they referred to the ministry and concrete proposals but, as the proposal for a law on Brazilian textbooks does not say. The Croatian association of the blind in the name of the blind children and their parents is seeking the same conditions in the accessibility of the textbook for the blind children as for their peers. Discrimination is that the parents of blind children have to pay up to 50 times more expensive than children without visual impairment. In this way we humiliate them by asking for sponsors and donors so that they can be included in the education system. The Croatian association of the blind suggested that only one textbook should be printed in a bračic version for a single subject, and that is the one that is most common for teachers of textbooks in the standard press. This would introduce an obligation for teachers from certain classes where there are also blind children to work on the textbook. To provide funds to cover the price difference between textbooks in the standard press and press on the razor. On a letter sent to the Prime Minister and forwarded to you to the Ministry of the Croatian Association of the Blind, he did not receive an answer, although the Office of the President is asking that you consider the proposal of the Croatian Alliance of the Blind with special care in order to address the problems mentioned above, especially in relation to the allegations of discrimination against the blind children. Mr. Secretary of State, in a country where tunnels are painted several times when Podravka soup is cooked on all sides and mostly in Remetinac, in a country where there is no real owner of the largest oil company, in a country where managers can while they are politically protected to build a villa with a pool and the second day when politics pushes them aside do not have a building permit, in a country full of illogicality, despite all the illogicalities, it is the most illogical that the state has not and has not provided the means to pay for the difference in prices for the books of 160 blind students, of course taking into account all the specificities and the price of textbooks and thus discharging the parents of blind children. In this way, not only do these not recognise problems, they are not only affected by blind children but also their parents who have to pay themselves for a good portion of the difference in the price of textbooks. To justify what? Whether this is the result of signing a ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and whose Article 21 says, I will now read it to you in a children's language otherwise translated into a children's language: "If you need to use sign language, Braille letter or other help to express yourself you will get it. You have the same right to information." Article 24 on education: "You have the right to attend school and you cannot be excluded from education because of disability. The government must provide assistance for the exercise of that right. For example, it must provide appropriate means to communicate or ensure that teachers are willing to respond to your needs.". I hope the Secretary of State understands me now. However, that is not exactly the case with this Final Proposal of the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks and the State Review Reports on direct acquisition of textbooks. And in the end, what do you say? He has money for direct purchase of textbooks regardless of the price and for 160 blind children there is no money. It's just a matter of who and who the priority is in this country. Treating this way blind children in the education system obviously are not. You can say that you did this or that, but the fact remains that you have not yet paid the debt to the Croatian Alliance of Blinds or printing books to the barber for the current school year. It is 30 thousand kunas you owe to the Croatian Alliance of the Blind. Otherwise, the difference at the annual level that the ministry should assume on itself and pay the difference in the printing of the Vinko Bek Centre is between 300 and 400 thousand kuna. From the Croatian Alliance of Blinds, they appeal to the sensitivity of the Prime Minister. I do not appeal but require that you finally systematically and under the same conditions treat children with developmental difficulties, taking into account all the specificities of printing textbooks and related teaching tools. In this case, money is not a reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49323	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do next is correct the incorrect assumption that this law is not affirmative. I claim this law is affirmative. Ask the kids in elementary school, ask the high school kids how big their bags are, how they carry their bags today. Ask your teachers, ask your parents who are paying for textbooks today and how much they will pay after the adoption of this law and, of course, textbooks that are passed down from generation to generation. It is also known that the ministry also works with disabled people's associations specifically related to schooling children in primary and secondary schools. He also works with the Croatian Union blind. You yourself said that there is good co-operation between the ministry and the Croatian Alliance of Blinds to find the best solutions for the schooling of our 160 blind children and high school students, and I am sure that in this job, the ministry will meet blind people, blind students and find the best solutions for their education.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49325	Thank you. And another correction of the incorrect quote, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of mine said that this bill made the government discriminate, so she made discrimination against the blind students. Well, actually, that's absolutely incorrect. Fellow Members, just because the Government has accepted the term of students with developmental difficulties means that the Government thinks all students in the same way and will explain to you a State Secretary, probably a little later, in which way it has protected blind students and has never happened that the Government has discriminated against one category of students or persons with disabilities at all, and especially not this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49327	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary, Honorable Želimir Janjic, at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49328	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Representative Škulić, I am pleased that at the beginning you said that in this time since you established good cooperation in this House and that we have solved a number of problems. I can say the same about my colleague Lukacic. Here on the subject you mentioned, I must make it clear that you would not go to the public, perhaps some message or one information that is not correct. So when it comes to students who need textbooks on Braille, we have several publishers. You mentioned two, there are four of them, so we talked to each other. It is primarily about the Vinko Bek Centre, which is paid under its regular activities by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, doing this important job for our students who need textbooks on the bračica. These textbooks are given free of charge by students, so they don't pay, and last year we asked them to work overtime to produce an even greater number of textbooks in order to have them as many students as possible. This debt that you mentioned, that is, part of the debt that we will, of course, settle very quickly. Furthermore, one part of this problem you mentioned will be solved by the amendment of the esteemed representative Zdenka Chuhnil, and one part believe it cannot be solved by these legal articles. In particular, if one reader is in use in one school, and if we were to ask that for each publisher, each textbook translates a textbook on a bravado, that is to say, it would actually be an impossible mission. What we have discussed with these publishers for the needs of such students is that in cooperation with schools, and we can really do this because our cooperation is good to God, to ask our teachers and teachers to accept those textbooks on the Brethren even though they do not respond to what other students do to be tolerated, we have understanding, and we are sure that this will be the case. Otherwise, we discussed in time with Agent Lesar the beginning of the computer procurement process for such students, so to speak on the reverse, while they are schooling with a speech unit which would significantly facilitate the matter and improve their quality of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49329	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Regardless of our good cooperation and the shifts that have occurred, unfortunately 300 means 300 thousand kuna per year becomes the difference, therefore, in addition to the textbooks carried by the parents of the blind children. By the way, as far as the publishers are concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49331	I'm sorry, I didn't hear the quote you're correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49332	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the entire ministry is making up for the difference in costs which is not true. So it's not true. Somewhere around 300 to 400 thousand kuna, the difference is charged by parents of blind children for textbooks that cost up to 50 times the actual price, or the price that is not on Braille’s letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49333	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. It's the honorary representative of Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, what are the problems with textbooks? We all agree on that, including the ministry's representatives, that our textbooks are expensive, that they're bad, that they're too numerous and that the student's bag is too heavy. And now the law is proposed to change it, to fix it. Now what's going to get better and what's going to happen? If the textbooks are too numbered, it can be fixed and you will probably solve it with this rule, so only mandatory textbooks on list A will come on the list, these supplementals on list B. The small problem is that in order to put something in line with that rulebook on that list and that should be consistent with the curricula that it does not have. Well, he'll get along with something that doesn't exist. And while this does not exist, according to the transitional and final provisions, it will comply with the existing programme, and then the textbooks will be the same as they are because they will be written under the existing programme. The other problem is that textbooks are expensive. Now how do you try to solve it? You try to solve it so the minister will determine the price of the textbook. And what happens if the minister says it can cost 100 things, and the publishers say look, we can't issue it under 120. There won't be any textbooks. It may not be good that only the market determines the price and the most favourable offer, but this solution that the minister will tell the administrative decision how much it can cost without taking care of whether the person who issues it can produce it will not hold water for you. It's simply not a rational solution, so it won't do anything. And now we come to what seems most important to me, which is that textbooks are bad. With this bill, you don't solve this biggest problem of all. To solve this problem, you need to bring a curricula because the textbooks are written on it. What about that unfortunate curricula? So this last program is back in '92. the year the textbooks are now being drawn up. Otherwise, it changes in the world every three to four years, and now it's been established there in 2006 by the Couriculum Council. And then it worked, worked and worked so the minister would disband him in September last year and he said he'd disbanded him because he did the job. And where's that curricula? That curricula looks like Yeti to me, everyone's talking about him that he exists and no one's seen him. No, no one saw that document. The minister has publicly announced that he is finished, exists, no one knows where. But it's a basic document because we're building a house from the roof. You at the Ministry. You first roof, then you will wall, then you will base because the foundation of all the curricula. You can't go on without him anywhere. And so we have textbooks that everyone is unhappy with, I guess, except for their authors. They are dissatisfied teachers who have to work for them, dissatisfied parents, dissatisfied students. Why are they unhappy? They're probably dissatisfied because they don't know what to write in those textbooks because they don't have curicula. And no one here in this country knows what, say, a third-grade high school student has to know from history, geography, biology. So then some college material is put in textbooks, making students learn it by heart, textbooks are full of material mistakes. I'm getting ready for this debate some examined. Here, I could cheer up those quotes from those textbooks as much as you want, but here, take this biology textbook for first grade high school. It says here, the German botanist Schleiden is mentioned on the next page he writes as Sheriden. It's a material mistake. There must be no material error in the textbook. Well, that's got to go through seven reviews. That textbook missed your ministry with a material error. I'm saying I could cheer up, but here's a nice line. Well, it says here that all the biombrane have a similar building plan. Basically, each biombrane is a double layer of phospholipid. It's known that phospholipids... molecules that have a polar hydrophilic head and non- polar hydrophilic tails. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's for first grade high school. What are teachers doing? They have to teach this. They have to question this and they're questioning it. The respected representatives of the ministry have to teach you first-class high school by heart, by heart, and by that they get grades. Then what the poor teachers do, what their relationship to the disciples is. They don't question, because they can't evaluate what the student knows in textbooks like this. They try to capture him in the ignorance of such completely unnecessary things. For there is a vaguely vague explanation, and so are all your textbooks. It's vaguely vaguely explained. So we'll destroy the whole generation. Why? Because in time no curricula was made, because the ministry did not do the job most important of all to say what these students need to know from certain content, that teachers can then teach through it, that they can evaluate students and that we get a generation of students who will be more willing to graduate state. We've introduced the state's graduation. So how are they going to ask them this at the State Graduation? Well, everyone's gonna fall, 'cause that's not something you can learn. So it's not true that the SDP club complains that the SDP club wants everything to stay the same, that the status quo remains there, that we don't change anything, that we know it's bad but that we don't change anything. That's not what my colleague Lugaric said on behalf of the club. We warn that there are problems. But please, we're looking, we're doing the best we can, we're putting our hands together, on our knees, we're kneeling. It's the most important thing, because only then will you be able to make the rules on it, choose the textbooks. Only then will teachers be able to do so in some quality textbooks. Only then will the students be able to absorb the knowledge they really need. Take our remarks well-intentioned, for they are well-intentioned. Well, none of us here, none of us in this country should be as unimportant as we learn these young generations. Well, that's a strategic national issue. If we don't prepare them for the life of Europe comes, Europe knocks on the door. They must acquire knowledge with which they will be able to compete in that Europe. Based on this '92 curricula, based on textbooks like this, they won't be on schoolwork. Therefore, we ask you nicely to take your job and do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49335	Thank you. And now we have 10 of our own replicas, so let's take it in a row. First is the distinguished representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Stazic, you have recognized the problem well. So it's about the whole system that depends on the future not only of these generations, but of generations after them. So once it's started to change, I think it's supposed to be quality and based on sound foundations. My alarm went off as soon as my HDZ colleagues started correcting me. So, what I was talking about are children with developmental difficulties, or blind children, and they talked about everything to each other just not blind children. So they didn't recognize them themselves in the education system. Starting with a teaching assistant, which is, which if the director is good or let's say sensitive, then the child will get an assistant in the follow-up, if any municipality or county has the funds the child will get an assistant in the follow-up if he needs it. Otherwise, it won't be any different than if it ends up in a newspaper, or if it does, if the press closes a story. And I would also point out once again to my colleague, Stazić, that here with this law, children's and human rights are being violated with children's difficulties in development, given that their textbooks are specific in the way of printing, especially textbooks at a high price which I repeat once again is not fully compensated by the ministry. Let's just say it recently finished printing textbooks for the current school year. So these children are, other their peers have been in school benches for several months, and blind children have only recently received their textbooks. And then we're talking about good law here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49337	Thank you. It's time. Another replica is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49338	You're telling a colleague that the minister wants first of all to make an impression, and that the house, every house, is based on a foundation, not a roof. It's the usual stuff. It's the usual stuff. But the very fact after this bizarre, bizarre example in biology textbook tells me about absurdity that we haven't made much progress since the '90s. Remember when the first-school textbooks came from the mother's instruction to make bread, to the girls' textbook, to the seventh-grade textbook when the girls were given instructions already in puberty, with the famous folk's grace of my flowers, that your seed is to me, etc. Today we have this kind of bizarreness and you've come here full of elanas thinking that people sitting here don't have their own children and don't see what's in those textbooks. So I'm surprised that in your textbooks and textbooks, there was no such recipe as the little secret of the great master kitchen from Podravka soup. Let's say one ingredient, one former prime minister, one deputy prime minister, one state-owned company, two to three domestic companies, barely offshore company, 65 million kuna, 66 rotten managers, a fingertip of sour smiles and a small production plant of vegeta. And that's how you get ready with 66 rotten managers, you're gonna have to work it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49339	Thank you. The recipe is over, and your time is up. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49340	So that one, more of those recipes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49341	Let's move on with it. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49342	Meaning for our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49343	Please. Your Honor, don't do this. It's been a while. You have to hold on. You're a kind of lawyer, you know you have to stick to the rules. Let's move on. It is up to the honourable representative Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, in your discussion, you said that the Croatian school system was built so that it starts to build from the roof. Unfortunately, colleague Stazic, you're completely wrong. The Croatian school system has no foundations, no roof. There are only walls, which are rarely completely poorly built, and when someone starts pointing to this as educational inspector Nada Stanovic from Split who has proved 600 fake diplomas in a mere open school, and now points to errors in music school, then she is suspended, and Minister and Secretary of State Janjic dares not help that woman at all, but continues to chican. This is an example of the school system of Croatia that has neither a roof nor a foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49345	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49346	Well, I agree with my colleague Jovanovic that there is a total mess and that this mess should finally be handled. I'm just afraid, like all of us at the club, that the way the ministry went won't get to the finish line. When I said it was built from the roof, I was thinking that the Bookbook Act had to be the third step on that road to fix the situation. Only the third. She's needed, of course she's needed, but she can't be the first. Well, we can't start with the Bookbooks Act without knowing what's to be written in those textbooks, so we don't know what our students have to learn. And it's just unclear to me why she doesn't want to answer that fundamental question? What's the reason? We haven't heard the reason yet. Neither the former, nor this minister, nor the secretary of state, nor anyone came, so look at the people made a curiculum, but it's bad, we're not happy with it. We screwed up. We've lost time. At least we'd know a history of it, so we could diagnose it, and then we can determine therapy. This is how we all hang in the air, these poor students struggling with these textbooks and we don't see a way out. And no one tells us from the Ministry where that exit is and what they intend to do until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49347	Thank you. It is the turn of the replica, the distinguished representative of Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49348	You have the right to colleague Stazic when you say that the bill is contradicted by existing laws. The constitution guarantees a market principle, and it violates an article by law that says the minister determines the highest level of the price of textbooks and the state is not a buyer. And in that sense, you're right. Well, this law is kind of unconstitutional in that article. This law is also contradictory to some other laws, the Law on Education and Education that we can consider in this system an organic law, and it guarantees the autonomy of teachers. This law dozes it. So as I said, the law is contradictory to a number of laws, but most of all it seems to me with a healthy logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49349	Thank you. It is the turn of the replica, the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49350	Thank you very much. My colleague, I agree with you that the quality of the textbook depends on the curriculum as well. In fact, the curricula should write what needs to be done, what needs to be adopted and how. I can also say that the quality of the textbook is not only a problem in the amount of material where it is said to reduce the amount of material, but precisely the problem of the term used. You've given one example, I'll give you another one, and that's, say, in the fifth grade of elementary school, we have a textbook, and the title of one textbook is to supply the body with nutrients. What wouldn't be more normal is to say that this age feeds our body, etc., etc. However, anyone who has studied with their children can see that we can actually set countless examples. We have often been translators of text from textbooks in a understandable way. You also mentioned that Europe knocks on the door. The truth is fellow Stazić, because according to the results of various international and our knowledge checks, the level of knowledge of students could actually be very low, precisely because of the incomprehensible texts found in textbooks used by our children. So much for the quality of the textbook.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49351	Thank you. And now it's the sixth replica, the distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49352	Dear fellow Stazic, when you mentioned an administrative decision at which the minister will determine the price of the textbook, and if the textbook publisher asks for 120, and the minister says 100 will be the situation in which the textbook will not be. I must warn of another situation that may be worse than that, which is if the market price is 70 or 80, the minister can also say 150, which is twice what the real market value of textbooks is. Of course, in this situation we should keep in mind, on the trail of what the minister was saying, and there we cannot fully agree, that textbooks themselves are not a market category. Because if that were the case, they could be sold without any influence on children's education. They are a public category and therefore their market price must not and cannot be determined by the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49353	Thank you. And we have 8.7 gone, we have 8 replicas, a distinguished representative of Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Stazić, you have made a fine and picturesque point to a large number of problems that bring this new Law on textbooks, but I think there is one more special emphasis that my ears have been pierced like this, which is that my parents will give an opinion on textbooks, i.e. the Parents' Council. I think it's another example of degradation, complete degradation of the profession, teachers and professors in the Republic of Croatia, so they can get a head-shifter from their students, and they won't get anything, no one will protect them. They, in my court, as far as I can tell, face every day major problems and discipline of children and cannot decide for themselves what they were trained to do. And that's how they transfer knowledge to future generations. So here I am personally, this is quite a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49355	Thank you. Nine replicas, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I listened carefully to your discussion and looked around. I can tell you that your debate was actually a discussion for textbooks and it's a shame that there weren't any more students to hear it here in the hall, but I'm quite sure that this return is a return to an extension course so they'll have to listen to such a little replica. You've seen the problem well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49357	Don't speak with such underestimating tone to other MPs. You have the right to speak of the replica, and that is not foreseen in the replica. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49358	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for once again drawing attention to what I was about to say and thus increasing the impression. So Mr. Stazic was talking about that in his biology textbooks for first grade high school, so that there are things that are inappropriate, in his opinion, for that age. I would warn of another case, therefore, of a combination of subjects from physics, chemistry and mathematics where in the contents of physics textbooks very often require tasks or mathematical knowledge for the contents that have not been processed in the subject of mathematics. So there's a few cases like that. And I would like to warn that when selecting textbooks, it takes care that content from several subjects, and mathematics is basic science for everything and for physics, and for most of it also for chemistry. So, in this way, the same thing is done to ensure that the contents are aligned so that children in 4 or 5 classes, pardoned 7th grade, don't have to learn from physics something that they need knowledge from mathematics taught in 2nd grade. Mr. Vice President, here's hoping that the other part of the replica was in line with the Rules of Procedure, so I apologize once again if I hurt someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49359	It's your style to do something like this every time, then apologize behind it to boost the impression. Thank you very much. Have a seat. It is up to the honourable representative Zdenko Franić, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49360	Someone shut me out. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] You also warned of some factographic errors in the textbook. I would mention from the opposite examples that the longevity of textbooks, for example the legendary yellow collection of physics, lasts at least from 1958 to today. However, just when all mistakes were cleared by the long-standing efforts of generations and generations of students, teachers, teachers, students, university professors, etc. 17th of this bill will be impossible for this collection to continue in continuity without endless checks whether it is similar or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49361	Thank you. There's nine replicas. The answer to one, so you can estimate it. Let's move on with the individual debate, Your Honor, Mr. Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49362	It seems to me that one part of the topic that I wanted to talk about is absolute, but I can't really not mention two principle points. One is that the law will not change all those failures in the activities of the people in the ministry and that no matter how legitimate and legitimately optimistic they cannot solve people's inaction and the failure of those in charge of the appropriate resors. So the law won't stop again a whole series of gaps that are even so far, I warned a few minutes ago, which lasted six years. So, we need to talk a little bit. There are arguments in the debate, you know? You claim one thing, but it would be good to hear the reasons why we claim another, not keep repeating one thing and the same, regardless of what the argumentative area has changed in the meantime. One reason for changing the argumentative area is that the law, which is its pregnant category, will not ensure the 4-year duration of the textbook. Because you'll bring the little girl, I hope soon, and then the law will enable a 1-year-old, maybe a 2-year-old girl's duration. Secondly, the ministry is burdened by the sin of inaction. And unfortunately, nothing important has changed. It's been six months since the decommissioned little girl's council planted us with a coward's egg called the National Framework Girlcullum, and the law prescribes a National Girlcullum. With the ministry entering 18 months behind the legal obligation and the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. In which the ministry exposes us to dangers, risks and discomforts that we cannot apply the law for 17.5 months because there is no basic instrument for law enforcement, there is no National Girlcullum, etc., etc. So it's a basic flaw and all the upside where the Bookbooks Act is passed before the Couriculum Act is passed. Third, this Law, regardless of the very good intentions that the SDP Club has said, supports, is very bad at the performance. However, it is so contradictory that the application of the Law will not be possible to ensure, among other things, that the autonomy of teachers has been violated. Be careful, the Law on primary and secondary education is in some way an organic law on the system of primary and secondary education. No matter what we call it, no matter what developed countries call it otherwise. That law guarantees the autonomy of teachers. The autonomy of teachers is limited not to say derivated by this law, because the textbooks are decided by the majority in teaching activities, in the teaching activities in question, that I am not going into technical details now. And at national level, it actually decides on a textbook or two textbooks that will be used. So it also seems to me a lot of difficulty. Article 2 states that the textbook is the one to be published in the form of a book. We have been asking for two years, and we are asking for at least an elemental mind to come about the current state of affairs and to respect that the textbook and any other book can be published in printed form, paper form or electronic form. So then we remind you if many people who have been dealing with these things haven't read the paper in months. Two years in California, students do not receive textbooks in the form of books but in electronic form, tasks, so the workbooks all come in electronic form. A few weeks ago, IPAD’s production and sales were announced to be a new world reader’s tool, which counts for the next school year in a number of countries to be used instead of textbooks or as another electronic form of textbooks in dozens of millions of copies. So even this elemental thing to soften the formulation and traditional concepts doesn't go away. Then you have Mr. Vice President, a serious legal problem, I hope that you will understand me, which is found in Article 35(3) of the teacher’s plea procedure, or teacher’s choice of textbooks, etc., will begin in accordance with the provisions of the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools adopted in 2009 will be completed in accordance with the provisions of this Law. So you're starting a procedure under one law, and you're ending it under another law, which violates fundamental legal certainty. Because people who competed under one law do not have to meet the conditions of another law. And what's happening now, we've violated the constitutional provision of equal chances. We violated the Roman right to here the principle of legal certainty, and we warned about it, but simply our arguments do not come across open ears. So it seems to me that there are a whole series of key problems with the application of the law, and I repeat at the SDP Club and I personally and my colleagues and colleagues welcome the intention to introduce order in the field of textbooks, but we also warn and repeat that the funds chosen for this are not only bad but also counterproductive to this intention itself. And therefore, I personally cannot support this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49363	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49364	Dear Deputy, Ministers with Assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Personally, I think that this final text of the legislative proposal contains and brings certain improvements that we have insisted on in the previous two readings. One of the improvements is, of course, that the process of harmonising textbooks with national and relevant curricula and teaching standards will not be carried out by education and education agencies as originally proposed, but the responsible work will be carried out by expert committees appointed by the minister, which will be composed of scientists, Methodists and teachers, and in particular by other experts. Namely, these special cases are cases of adult education and additional education of children of Croatian citizens abroad. A certain improvement is also a provision which, compared to the earlier proposal, increases the impact of teachers and teachers on the choice of textbooks to some extent. Now, a public call for the inclusion of textbooks and related teaching tools in the catalogue can be made by those publishers who supported at least 10% of teachers and teachers, and now the most expensive criterion that has been set to harm the quality of textbooks. It is now resolved in a way that not only the lowest-price publishers can appear on a public call for inclusion in the catalogue, but also those whose retail price does not exceed the amount of the most published price. This introduction of a kind of teaching and teaching to say collectiveism in the choice of textbooks in relation to the previously allowed complete autonomy should be analyzed to the practice that each teacher has his own books and his teaching aids or should ensure that children in all classrooms of the same class, the same subject learning from the same textbook and using the same additional teaching aids. This way of selecting textbooks through professional activities of teachers and teachers should help to ensure greater objectivity in the selection, i.e. to reduce the possibility of bribing teachers and teachers by publishers. It is therefore a kind of anti-corruption effect of such behaviour, when the anti-corruption broom started to move to Croatia, so let it sweep corruption from schools at least in that part of the purchase of textbooks and teaching aids. The truth in countering, or more fully combating, corruption should be a much more effective provision that is provided for in this legal text on the ban on receiving all forms of donation, material support and other types of favoring teachers, teachers, directors and other professional staff, which has in fact turned into a real competition for who will give more, not to say schools have literally become a place for this. However, I think that by prescribing what is not considered a donation, too much room is still left for possible benefits that the proverbial Croatian imagination will be able to use. In doing so, I mean the ingenuity of profit that doesn't choose how to make itself bigger. So if the intention of this provision is merely declarative, then it is a good and existing formulation. However, if an actual anti-corruption effect is to be achieved, then the provision must be far more precise because we know that the rule applies to us, if something is not said, then it is allowed. Despite these improvements, however, there remains a series of grudges that unfortunately weigh more than the improvements I was talking about. Namely, the whole story of textbooks remains upside down because it does not begin with the adoption of basic documents, national and subject curricula, and a new teaching standard. How do we know that the textbooks from which our children will be taught are, how do we know that they are fine if we do not have basic documents that determine the criteria of evaluation. In addition to the lack of basic documents that are the beginning of each educational process, there is unfortunately an adequate completion. And that's supposed to be a check, so an evaluation of the textbooks within the probationary period in schools. It does not have the same weight to evaluate textbooks by reading in the office, as an evaluation of textbooks through everyday practice, through daily working with children. In this short process of selecting textbooks could be used to miss and unquality textbooks that will then have to be used for 4 years and the damage from bad textbooks is indeed irreparable. What I'm still afraid of about the realisation of this job is the chaos in bookshops at the beginning of the new school year that could be due to the short deadlines left for just printing textbooks. Namely, if the ministry publishes the final list of approved textbooks by 15 June, and the books must be in the retail network by 1 August, then this means that the printing of a million titles must be done within only 45 days, and this must indeed be agreed on by a short deadline. I fear that it will be impossible for publishers to respect the given deadline, that books will likely be late again, and that both parents and students will relive unpleasant reruns in bookshops related to the purchase of books. In addition, such a short deadline for printing could have another consequence. It will be difficult to find printers willing to do such a demanding job in such a short time, so they will be blackmailed with a higher price of printing, which will increase the final price of textbooks and what should never happen, because it actually devalues one of the basic objectives that led to this amendment to the Law on textbooks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49365	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica has withdrawn her application. Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since the working bodies, the committees on behalf of the board and individuals have already repeated and made their views and suggestions on several occasions, I will make the most of my debate. I'm not gonna talk about how the students' bags are gonna be easier, I'm not gonna talk about how cheaper the textbooks are gonna be. I want to say something when it comes to self-application in primary and secondary schools of the same textbooks. In his practice, Professor Poljak said that teaching is an educational process under the guidance of teachers, and planically and systematically with a group of students. In order for this Croatian teacher to be able to do his assigned work according to the program, he must have a textbook using the student, and the same textbook with the same textbook is also used by the teacher. I support the bill's proposal, and I believe that we will carry out all the necessary activities by 1 September 2010 in order to carry out tasks in the implementation of the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools. Why am I doing this? I am doing this because the active classes and classes in schools, professional activities at the level of cities and counties are included, including parents, experts in the field of education and education. And finally last week's government meetings in two readings, Assembly sessions and, of course, Parliament's working bodies and here's the debate of our parliamentary representatives. I would like to congratulate the Minister, the Secretary of State, their associates on a hard but well done job. I would also like to highlight the maximum correct and professional... parent committee, Committee on Education, Science and Culture. But I'm surprised at the discussion of some colleagues of the parent board, that on the mother's board where we were partners with the promoter, now that we've come to this council we're talking about something else, and we need to consider that the grotesque of proposals and suggestions, and the amendment the Proposer adopted. Why am I going to support this law? For that reason, he's better than the last one. And why not just in a reasonable time if something is wrong with this law and we're gonna fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49367	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49368	Mr. Djurdjevic, in your debate, you said you were surprised at us from the Education Committee, which we now perform differently than on the board. I, as a member of the Committee on Education and here as a representative, perform exactly the same on the board and here. All the remarks I made to the law in the first reading remain. I repeated them in the debate at the board meeting, asked for an indication that we didn't get, one part that was formulated in the form of amendments most of them weren't even accepted. Therefore, do not be surprised but simply accept reality as it is. It's a lot weirder for me to say that none of you discussed it at the board meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49369	And Mrs. Representative Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49370	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry. A few sentences here may not be as a representative, not as a politician, but I would like to say a few sentences from the position of my primary profession. I'm a primary teacher in class school, and I want to say something right from that position. The first thing that comes to me and according to the remarks that I received not only me but also the other representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament who caused a lot of storms among our teachers and teachers is a provision from the final bill that teachers and teachers will no longer be able to choose a textbook that will benefit themselves but that the textbooks will ultimately be decided by the active ones. There are several problems in that provision. When we talk about activities within schools in the law, it is set to do so by the activity in question, knowing the size of our schools. These assets are mainly made up for most of the items of one or two persons, in some slightly larger cases, with objects with a larger satin than maximum of three to four persons. Most, so one part of these people will be able to choose themselves. Especially, however, in this situation, the choice of textbooks in a classroom where at a school of classical size that has three parallels you have 12 class teachers and just one physics teacher and one chemistry teacher. They will be able to choose textbooks themselves, but the teachers of class classes here or in no way in any way will that final selection of assets be somewhere in agreement with their wishes and, specifically, according to the proposals of this final proposal, the teachers of class classes are brought into a highly invisible position. However, this proposal that teachers cannot choose their own textbooks, I think, has a little bit of an impact and deeper on our teaching policy. In fact, the proposal calls into question the sense of the existence of parallel textbooks. Namely, what is the meaning of the existence of parallel textbooks if we go with a fundamental assumption that as soon as they are approved they are of equal quality. Therefore, the meaning of the existence of parallel textbooks is in the reality and preference of different didactic and methodical approaches. The whole idea of a teacher choosing a textbook with which he will work is to actually choose a textbook of that didactic or methodical approach that corresponds to his sort of superior pedagogy or his way and vision that should work with children at school. If we do not allow teachers, so if we force teachers to use what most people choose, and we do so by this law, even if it happens in the situation that this choice is not under some kind of coercion and under some kind of pressure that it is mostly. I think there's an absolute sense of the existence of even parallel textbooks. I wonder why we even have parallel textbooks. Would it not be easier for us in this situation, Mr. Minister, to say that we can only have one, if the textbooks work on the exact same content differ in approach? And so far, we've put teachers on the opportunity to choose those textbooks that match their approach. If they can't decide right now, I can't choose why we have a whole mess with parallel textbooks at all. I mean, we can lead things like this to absurdity, but it turns out that if we're administratively determining things that we're not actually doing well, we're just not doing well. This specifically refers to those teachers who introduced new methods into school, who worked differently, who were more innovative. These teachers are a minority, and instead of encouraging them in their innovation, to encourage them to introduce more things, we force them to go by choice of the majority. That's why they'll be a little bit more on their heads, not letting them develop themselves or their profession. This provision of the law that actually eliminates the possibility of selecting textbooks to teachers is not only a violation of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school that guarantees the autonomy of teachers, it is actually a shower for all teachers, all teachers, because it is challenging their professional integrity, their professional authority and ultimately their ability to work and decide. I have submitted seven amendments to this law in all. We'll have a chance to discuss them. I just want to point out some here. Article 2 sets out that these are the supplementary extensions of the funds. An image map has been ejected from the additional teaching funds. Dear Minister, allow me, as a graduate class teacher who is trained to teach, to keep my children's art culture classes somewhere message from my colleagues and colleagues. The teaching of art culture is impossible without a visual map, without paper. Children simply with tempers, water paints, goosem cannot be drawn on regular 80 grams of paper. It's just impossible. If you put art maps in that list of additional, auxiliary funds, those optional ones that my instrument is to force my parents to buy as a teacher. However, the law forbids me to force them to do so. So I'm going to have half a class of material that can achieve teaching goals and half a class won't. So I ask you to consider that amendment. And secondly, deadlines. With one amendment, I suggest that we cut the deadlines for next year because if we don't want to have the next school year or before the next school year that parents have with all the worries that the sea still has to worry about the classes for school books, it seems to me that we need to move a little time and that we can't even get the publishers who have to push it out very quickly. So we simply mustn't leave them any less time than you in the ministry need to approve it all together, and with a thorough motivation that the books will be in the bookstores in time so that parents can buy them for their children. Please also think about it. And at the very end, I'm sorry that in this debate, for including actually in this debate maybe there was no more hearing to involve all the stakeholders. From what I know, the ministry has talked a lot and negotiated this bill with the publishers. This law has also been very negatively expressed by an association of primary school directors, expressed by the classes teacher's negative associations, a negative opinion on the law also has a Syndicate of High School Employees. And I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, that when you were thinking about the solutions you're going to propose to us in the final bill, you didn't consult with those very important stakeholders in the education system, but you only did consultations with publishers. Maybe that's why the law is the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49371	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49372	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The previous discussions show that there is a strong consensus that education cannot be a market category, so it is expected to extend to textbooks as well. However, this should not be exaggerated either because such a model determines the highest level of price of textbooks and the corresponding additional teaching means which, in the light of this law, is said to be in line with the Law on Exceptional Price Control (“National Journal” 73/97). He's a little over-excessive. Namely, in that '97 law. the year, and let us remember that it was years after the storm and at times when it was a very difficult economic situation in Croatia, Croatia was under the covert sanctions of the International Community. Such measures may have been justified, but now almost 13 years later it is questionable. Therefore, Article 8 of the 1997 Law states that a measure of direct price control may continue until reasons for its regulation are removed, and after the regulation of the measures of direct price control, the Government is obliged to take appropriate economic policy measures to eliminate the reasons for direct price control. I can understand the frustrations of the Ministry and the Ministry with the situation in the publishing activity, but I do believe that in this Law on textbooks it should in some way prescribe better mechanisms for price control. The more this law turns out to be almost a whole law focused on the price, and not on the quality of the textbooks, and it can be explicitly illustrated by the fact that through this text of the law which we have received the word price is mentioned 67 times, and the word quality is mentioned only four times in the text of the law itself, and in basic terms, while in other articles of quality is not mentioned, except three times in the reasoning. So the ratio at least in terms is almost 15-1 in favour of the price. I agree with my previous colleagues who have warned that the textbook cannot be considered just a book because in the 21st century it is a century of multimedia and let's say that I will illustrate it in an Italian textbook that says, the Italian language textbook for the four-year high schools with interactive cd-rome which is an integral part of the textbook. You failed to put CDs, multimedia and IT resources into teaching tools, even if it was in extracurricular means, so I submitted one amendment in this direction. Learning foreign languages today is completely impossible without multimedia. Also, there are other vague situations. In fact, you predict that a statement by teachers and teachers on the suitability of textbooks is carried out every four years. However, despite the fact that the textbooks today are as they are, there are also extremely positive examples of what I have already said in the replica of my colleague Stazic. The legendary example is the "Yellow Collection" from physics that has been in use for more than 50 years, it is practically cleaned from the mistakes that were originally in it. Even its color is the same as 50 years ago, it is called "Yellow Collection" even though its authors are also legendary Kranjc-Varičak-Marković. It's also about the first woman who doctored at the Zagreb University, Mrs. Kranjc, Mrs. Dr. Kranjc. I see no reason why this collection would not continue to be used as probably other similar examples, without every four years questioning its suitability. You further banned any donations to schools and teachers, which is extremely positive and I welcome. In that statement, however, you have somehow overlooked a mechanism that teachers and teachers can gain insight into examples of textbooks that will then be evaluated, because by such a restrictive approach you have essentially questioned and put into question. This should, however, be specified either in the law or in the accompanying acts. Because it's caused some misunderstandings in the chambers. In Article 17(5), you say that at least 10% of teachers and teachers must be declared in the plea procedure, but it is not clear which ones, whether in school, city, county or class. That should certainly be explained. The more you continue to refer to this article in Article 18(3). And finally, in paragraph 35(17), you have predicted that textbooks and related supplementary assets printed before the entry into force of the teaching standard cannot be found in retail, but students can use them in the follow-up. It's a little paradoxical provision because one part of this item you're making something impossible and forbidding, and yet you haven't banned the consequences. And what about antiques that can also be considered retail. Are you going to have some kind of educational police who will go around the bookstores and ban the sale of textbooks that are not in accordance with this law. I understand your intensities and intentions, but certainly this item should explain better that there is no misunderstanding. And let me finish. Given the huge number that has arrived at such a text of the law not only by MPs, but also by the parliamentary committees, I think it would be reasonable for this law to go into third reading in order to be corrected in a way that is good, applicable and to facilitate teaching for students, and to facilitate financial burdens for parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49373	Thank you. And Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49374	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's one of the most frequently amended laws in front of us, four attempts. Of course, there was a shift. However, we cannot define ourselves as the final version of such a law. So are teachers and publishers, and so are parents. Let us also remember that when it comes to changes that more talk about commercials, money, costs, production, and less about the importance of guaranteeing the quality of textbooks as a teaching tool that should help students to better and easier master teaching material. It's said that you solved the problems of inheriting textbooks. However, you also announce the passage of the curicula very quickly. But according to this, it turns out that it will not be brought for the next four years or will be brought on the basis of already selected textbooks, or, if the curricula is soon to be brought, whether the textbooks will be re-changed. Because while there are no curricula, or pedagogical standards, textbooks can be changed by then. Also, parents’ councils, or parents, will pay, how they pay to have the right to choose. However, our children's parents certainly want responsible and competent people who will know...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49375	My colleagues and colleagues, please respond to the bell! It's like a pavilion reflex.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49376	... textbooks for your children. If this isn't a parent-in-law thing. Are parents competent to be involved in this? It's also a interference in professional, teaching competence. We also know when parents’ councils are elected, so we ask ourselves how they will affect them in the first grade of primary school, or in the first grade of high school when there is no parenting council. Today we have heard a lot about quality, or examples of unquality textbooks. I'm going to repeat also that, also one problem that we haven't thought about, which is that it can happen, that during the school year the student changes school, that it can happen as well that the student changes the city. It can happen that he has to buy new textbooks two or three times. Which one of them has profit? Only publishers and authors. I will repeat once again that the quality of the textbook depends not on the amount of material, but on the problem of the terms used. I will not repeat what has been said today. It was enough from the examples we heard today. Anyone who has studied with their children can actually give various examples. Very often, we were translators of the terms found in textbooks in a comprehensible language. But if the parent is a little more modest education and he doesn't have much time, and the child doesn't really go on learning alone, then the textbook is that ten for the same subject isn't of any use. School colleagues, or psychologists in schools, teach children by learning how to isolate content that is important. However, they often encounter comments from students when they say we do not learn from textbooks, but teachers or parents write a lesson summary and learn it, I guess we do not think so. So, colleagues and colleagues, there are a lot of textbooks like this, and children just memorize a series of information that someone else sets out for them. Such knowledge is quickly forgotten, and the child does not learn to think, answer, and forget about it. And then it doesn't matter if he knows what, the main thing is that textbooks are sold. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister Fuchs, for perceiving our discussion in particular the presentation of our SDP club representatives, that we don't really want any change. In fact, the SDP club, or all of us through our discussions, want to do the opposite, we want to change precisely because of the system of education and education, a very important system that shapes us, which also often determines fate. So, we're about to make... Don't shut me out. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] A better law that will actually bring quality. And ultimately, quality textbooks need initial reviews, checks, and also quality curricula. That's what I say on behalf of almost a million parents, about 550,000 students and 50,000 teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49377	Thank you. And Mrs. Marija Lugaric, on behalf of the club, is final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49378	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Here is the end of this debate when it seems to me that most MPs are much more interested in the fact that the sooner we finish the session and go home, than on the question of education and education policy, on behalf of the SDP, I would like to say just a few conclusions. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, we criticise this law not because we are an opposition, but because we want a much better law than what you have proposed, which we think is a better law possible, because in recent years we have had quite enough experiences that have told us that all models, and now... One model, actually one modified model of what we had just didn't bring results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's not so much a matter of maybe neither what we want nor what we expect. The thing is that our children in schools, our teachers, our teachers, and even parents deserve a better law and a final solution. As only 37 amendments have been submitted to this small law, Mr. President, this amendment, which concerns almost every article of this final bill, we propose that the third reading be carried out on this law. Obviously today this debate has shown, but perhaps more than that have shown those dozens of pages of remarks that we received from both teachers, teachers and professional associations, and even from publishers themselves, in the end, have shown that this law does not satisfy any of those who have to implement this law. And we think that there have been conditions and that much smarter than the rather common practice that has been so far that we are bringing solutions both quickly and insufficiently, that it may be a little smarter here to lift up the manual and discuss the whole story once again, and that for the next school year most of the institutes in this bill will not be able to be applied at all. Out of the desire to make something less of a bad law, the SDP club has also submitted three amendments concerning the two most crucial remarks in our opinion. First are the two amendments that regulate the choice of textbooks in school, i.e. they return to teachers and teachers their right, but then the obligation to bear responsibility, as they expect the results to bear responsibility for the choice of textbooks. And the third amendment relating to, and two other amendments relating to actually correcting the bill's proposal in the part where it is said that it is the minister who prescribes the highest price for textbooks. We understand why the proposal is in the law, but this proposal is deeply in conflict with some standards reached, with competition standards, we fear that it is in conflict with a number of other laws in the Republic of Croatia and we simply do not want the law to come into a situation to be abolished by a higher instance, or that we should be called at some levels at which due to this law should not be called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49379	Thank you very much. And in the name of the government, Minister Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49380	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that today we will get a decision from the Croatian Parliament to vote on this law. We have handled the principle of writing a good, quality law and we think that it is, and with certain minor improvements, by respecting constructive solutions, we will get it. I'm not going to enter the controversy with you right now, because I could reopen the debate. I think that the question of electronic formats was contained in the articles of the Quality Act as much as necessary because so far we have all listened to the allegations that our textbooks are very good quality, and above all, one of the main problems was that, possibly in our vote and selection, we do not turn out textbooks that are according to the profession, so teachers are the best quality. That's what we eliminated. I do not believe that on this side of Mark’s square, the Legislative Committee, and on the other hand, Mark’s square, the Legislative Office would not have seen such a mistake. Of course, they had no objections to that. The teacher's autonomy was held in their statement and the support the textbook considers to be the highest quality, and it is contained in the fact that all teachers are re-assembling a list on which children and those in that school will work. And finally what is important and important here, and that is that we have really approached price regulation and it is not about regulation of the competition, but about divulging the prices and disorder of the competition in the textbook segment. And finally here is the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency, which my colleagues told me that rarely when they saw such a positive opinion of some law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49381	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide later. We move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the final proposal of the Law on elementary and high school textbooks, there was a second reading, P.Z. No. 474. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First of all, we will vote on a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP representative club, which reads: "The final proposal of the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school will be carried out by third reading." Would the applicant's representative like to make a statement on this proposal for a conclusion? Here you go, Minister Radovan Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49383	Thank you, Mr. President. The government does not accept the third reading and we ask that this proposal be voted today. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If that's a key problem, then the ministry doesn't accept, which is a member of the government. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We don't accept third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49384	Please. Mrs. Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49385	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the promoter of this conclusion, please allow 2 actually comments on the minister's opinion. One is essential, namely this law, although it has 37 articles submitted 35 amendments relating to almost every article of this law, and we believe in the SDP that the conditions of art have been met. 158 of our Rules of Procedure which states that the law goes into third reading if one major number of amendments have been submitted. Secondly, it is now more of a matter of procedural nature, for the government's position, whether in this conclusion, whether in amendments like this and so far we seem to need a cabinet session. We are, boredom has been a practice like this. We're just asking you to consider it, and we're staying with our third reading proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49386	The work of our Parliament has been declared by the government's representative, so that's enough for us. Whether the government's in session or whether it's gonna be an ambush, I don't know. The government's representative said in a proposal not to go into third reading, and I am now putting the SDP Representatives' Club proposal on the vote that this law goes into third reading. Let us please include and vote on the SDP proposal, which is opposed by the Government to go to third reading. Here, let's vote. Let's get involved and vote. The result? The SDP's proposal that this law goes into third reading has not been accepted and has received 29 votes for, nothing abstention and 79 against. We are now moving to a decision on the amendments and I ask Minister Radovan Fuchs to declare his amendments. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. Here you go. The first amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is referred to in Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49387	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49388	This amendment has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the Law. Second amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 2
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49389	We also accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49390	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3. National Minority Clubs in Article 2(3)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49391	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49392	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4. Zdenko Franić's representative, as referred to in Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49393	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49394	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 5. Representatives of Marija Lugarić in Article 2. 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49395	We do not accept Mr. President, we believe that in the terms of this Law we do not need to specify the visual map as an additional teaching tool because it can be used if teachers ask for it and require it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49396	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49397	Your Honor, Mr. President, if the gentleman could repeat his explanation for speaking to you, I didn't hear him say anything at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49398	Please. What do you need? If you could make it a little louder, Minister, 'cause you couldn't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49399	We do not believe that in the terms of this Law it is necessary to specify the visual map as an additional teaching tool.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49400	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49401	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I remain with my amendment. The Association of Fine Arts Teachers collected a petition with more than 3500 signatures saying it is really necessary to conduct a class of art culture. So I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49402	Thank you. We'll vote by raising our hands. Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture in Article 3
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49403	We accept Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49404	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 7th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 4(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49405	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49406	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8. National Minority Representatives' Club on Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49407	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49408	It becomes an integral part of the Law. The 9th Amendment of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49409	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49410	It becomes an integral part of the proposal on Article 7. 10th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49411	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49412	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 11. Committee on Education, Science and Culture on Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49413	We accept, but in a modified form, that the amendment reads in Article 9(1) beyond the word ‘total’, the point is deleted and the words ‘except for geographical and historical atlases’ are added. Without the remainder that is then deleted both textbooks and supplementary teaching tools in the language and letter of national minorities published in one notebook because this is later settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49414	Representative of the Committee, Mr. Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49415	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49416	This amendment was accepted as explained by the minister. 12th Amendment of the Representative, Marija Lugarić, to Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49417	We don't accept Mr. President. The proposer considers that the existing composition of the commission is appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49418	Thank you. Mrs. Maria LUgaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49419	Mr. Minister, according to your proposal, it may happen that, for example, math teachers decide on books for Croatian language, it may be valid and vice versa, it is simply not a good proposal. I am basically somewhere within your concept with only one addition, which is that this opinion of your committee, that of yet to be shown only by the professional association that refers to this particular subject. Because otherwise, by now, we're going to have a bit of a stupid situation, that history experts will decide on the art. I ask you, since there is an amendment somewhere on the trail of what you have explained to reconsider your position, unless you change it, I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49420	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not being accepted. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49421	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49422	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 14. Committee on Education, Science and Culture on Article 12
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49423	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49424	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 15. Representative Marija Lugarić on Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49425	We do not accept Mr. President, because we believe there is no difference between the existing and the proposed formulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49426	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49427	Dear Mr. Minister, there's a difference. So a scientist, or teacher, is called a Methodist. He is not in that sense a scientist of parent science as it was meant here, so the one who deals with parent science is called, he is not an expert in teaching subjects, he is a professional content of teaching subjects, and the expert in teaching subjects is a methodist. Therefore, it is not the same and my amendment says exactly what you imagined and what you wanted to write down, so I ask you to really think again about your attitude because it remains exactly the same content of what you wanted, however, writes indeed what you thought. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49428	Do you have anything to add to the Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49429	We think that there really is no difference and that we can refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49430	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 16. Article 13 of the Education Committee
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49431	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49432	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 17. Education Committee, Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49433	We accept Mr. President, but in a modified form, the expression reads "exceptionally from paragraph 1 of this Article the compliance of geographical and historical atlas with the national and subject curricula and the teaching standard in the listing process is assessed independently of the textbook items 2, 3 and 4 shall become items 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49434	The chairman of the Committee, Mr. Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49435	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49436	It is accepted in a statement as Mr. Minister said here, becoming an integral part of the proposal. 18th Representative Marija Lugarić Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49437	We do not accept Mr. President, because we think it is necessary to make it possible to delete from the list of textbooks in the case of the prescribed law, since the list is a permanent document that is changed due to changes to, for example, the teaching standard or something like that should be regulated by the way in which it is deleted from that list.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49438	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49439	Mr. Minister, Article 10. The law states that only those textbooks which comply with the Regulation may be included in the list, but in Article 16 that those which are not required under the Regulation are deleted from the list. They have nothing to delete from the list because they can't even get on the list. So, you understand, we can't delete from the list something that is initially on that list, and we can't find it, so we're talking about elemental logic and simple relationship. So we can't get something out of some place that can't even be there, so this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49440	We'll do this to Mrs. MPs in case someone, some of the publishers possibly goes into bankruptcy, which is as hard as possible but possible, and then after that needs to delete the textbook from that list.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49441	Please, there is no comment only if you change your mind. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 19. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49442	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49443	Article 19 shall become an integral part. 20. The SDP representative's club on Article 18?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49444	We do not accept, because these provisions refer to the process of forming the price of textbooks and that is an important element of this law. Representatives' club Mr. Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49445	The Honored Mr. Ministers, such a solution that you have foreseen in the law is contrary to the functioning of the free market, and are still open to negotiating Chapter 1. – Legal property of the European Union, Freedom of movement of goods. Although this solution has been drawn up in accordance with the Law on Exceptional Price Control Measures in 1997, even this law should be amended, as it is no longer in line with negotiating Chapter 1. And with such an expression, you will be in trouble in the near future regarding this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49446	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment, raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21st Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Article 18?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49447	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49448	Be an integral part of the proposal. 22. A SDP representative club on Article 19?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49449	We don't accept. The highest price must simply be determined and that is one of the basic provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49450	On behalf of the club Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49451	The reasons for this amendment are the same as for the amendment under number 20. In fact, the statement as provided for in the law is contrary to the free market and to the negotiating chapter of the freedom of movement of goods that is still open. With such a solution, the law will not be in line with practice in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49452	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the Legislative Committee to Articles 21 and 23?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49453	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49454	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 24. Representatives of Marija Lugarić on Article 21?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49455	We do not accept Mr. President, because we believe it is necessary to enable the issue of a solution in non-accounting for textbooks in case of a prescribed law. Since there is a possibility that the amendment of the Regulation should also harmonize the issue of a solution for inclusion in the catalogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49456	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49457	Well, Mr. Minister, you here suggest that you make a decision about non-involvement in the textbook's catalog that if it is a textbook that is not required by the regulation. How did this textbook, which is not bound by the regulation, come first on the list and then on the catalogue that is extracted from that list? So, the same story as before. We can't erase something like we didn't even put it there, which just can't be. And this is now an additional explanation that maybe it's about changing the rules. Every 4 years, so the textbook gets a solution every 4 years. Every 4 years a new choice is made, a new catalogue, a new list, new rules. We must in some way guarantee minimum security in the solutions made. And not how you want to change every year a rule that will then have consequences for the solutions that have already been issued under the law and the rules that were valid at the time of the issue of a positive solution. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49458	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25. Committee on Education, Science and Culture Article 22?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49459	We accept Mr. President, but in the modified form, so that, at the end of the amendment in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, the words positive and positive are deleted, and in paragraph 4, the word delivery is replaced by the word "publishment". Therefore, only the replacement of words in the same article is replaced by the words of the publication. There was a delivery catalog now being published.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49460	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49461	Accepted by Mr. Secretary. 26. The SDP representative club on Article 22?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49462	We don't accept Mr. President. We believe that parents are important in the very decision-making process and the educational process.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49463	On behalf of the club Ms. Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49464	Mr. Minister, please read our amendment again. This isn't about parents at all. This is about the amendment proposing that teachers choose the textbook they will use independently and autonomously. That you're reading about this proposal somewhere, because that's what our amendment is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49465	Please. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. What's this about?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49466	Well, in this previous amendment, I asked the minister to be clear about the amendment because... He was talking about a thing that didn't propose our amendment at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49467	Look, we're going in here is all procedure. The minister declares the amendment you comment on and we vote. We've got nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49468	Your Honor, Mr. President, that's absolutely the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49469	That's actually it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49470	Your Honor, Mr. President, it is no doubt as you said. However, your first sentence is that the minister is being shown about the amendment. The minister didn't do it, he was showing himself about some other amendment, not Amendment 26. That's why I asked the minister to be clear about the amendment. Therefore, I would ask that the minister be shown on Amendment 26. So that we can make a statement about him, so that we can vote further and further in procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49471	The minister spoke, if he had kept quiet, I would have warned him if he hadn't come forward. So, have we voted on this amendment? Please, who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27. Legislative Committee on Article 22?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49472	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49473	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 28. Legislative Committee on Article 29?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49474	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49475	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 29. National Minority Representatives' Club on Article 34?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49476	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49477	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The 30th Amendment of Representative Marija Lugaric in Article 35?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49478	We don't accept Mr. President, because the change in this order of events in the choice of textbooks would violate the dynamics for next year. Therefore, cutting deadlines is not technically possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49479	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49480	Dear Minister, you wouldn't break it, you'd improve it. We work 15 days in advance, there's more time for parents to buy books, we don't have a line or you don't have a problem with the lines ahead of the next school year. However, since you obviously don't care that the text of the law improves, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49481	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. 31st Representative Marija Lugarić on Article 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49482	We do not accept by reason that here erasing the word "minimum 10% for already printed textbooks" would equally not be in line with the intensities of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49483	Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49484	Dear Minister, I would like to propose that simply those obligations signed by your ministry officials with the press releases in the memorandum simply remain valid so that the state does not face complaints from publishers and suffer even greater damage to the state budget. Since you obviously didn't even care at all, I'm withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49485	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 32. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 35.14
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49486	With all due respect to the chairman of the Committee, we ask that the amendment be respected, this amendment in a somewhat modified form, given that we later have one amendment that is similar to the statement but that it covers the intention of this amendment more fully. We generally accept it, but is it possible to accept it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49487	We withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49488	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 33rd Amendment of MP Zdenko Franic to Article 35(17)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49489	We don't accept Mr. President. This provision stipulates that textbooks and supplementary teaching tools that are not in conformity with the textbook... I can't be in retail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The amendment is not accepted since the teaching standard is adopted for the purpose of introducing the printing standards of the textbooks themselves. So what was printed in a year wouldn't be worth it if it was in retail later, the law's intensity would be played out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49490	Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49491	I would accept your explanation if there were no other part of this item that says, "but students can use it in class." Therefore, the whole item is absurd because you prohibit the sale of textbooks but you allow them to be used in the follow-up. Also, you do not allow these textbooks to be sold in antiques, for it is also retail. And this is an anti-constitutional provision because it actually denies the free market, but since you do not accept my amendment and you are not inclined to improve the expression of this law, I am withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49492	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 34 of Ms Zdenka Chuhil to Article 35(18)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49493	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49494	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 35th Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to Article 37
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49495	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49496	It's becoming an integral part. And the amendment of MP Emil Tomljanovic to Article 35 in paragraph 10 and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49497	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-26-0.u49498	It becomes an integral part of the bill. I thank the Minister and all of you. I am now voting on the draft law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Please engage and let's vote. The result? The law on textbooks for basics and high school has been passed by most of the 77 votes, 1 abstention and 24 against along with accepted amendments. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this would conclude the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament. The 17th will be notified in time. Count about half a month in March that there will be a continuation of this session when we prepare questions to the government. Thank you.
