ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53365	Here's just one piece of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53366	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53367	I didn't want to interrupt just one piece of information. We read in the media that Thursday or Friday should be a debate on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, does it stay on my mind, I know that the media can't tell us the agenda, but is it really so or is something going to happen?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53368	Thank you. That's a good question. So, here's a proposal to include it in the agenda. If we're a quorum, and hopefully we'll have over these three days, we'll expand the agenda with that point and a few more points that came in the meantime. However, this week's debate is not foreseen. So, it will be placed on the agenda but there is no debate about this item on the agenda of the Constitution, it will probably be the second one when we can actually do all of this and finally bring constitutional changes before Parliament's leave, perhaps even until the 9th of the seventh month if everything is in line with our expectations. Here, thank you very much. Here you are, Minister of Defence Mr Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53369	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament. This Report also presents the Croatian public with activities that show how the defence system works, how it develops, and how it ultimately fulfils its social role and has the means to which it is entrusted. During 2009, defence policy focused on the implementation of those tasks and obligations of the defence sector, which provide intensive support to the efforts of the Republic of Croatia's foreign policy to join NATO and the European Union. In 2009, the Republic of Croatia became a NATO member, meeting one of the main objectives of foreign and security policy in the area of defence, while also receiving political recognition for the adoption of high democratic standards and readiness to defend them. By joining NATO, the Republic of Croatia has received a guarantee of collective defence, and by taking over new Allied responsibilities of collective defence or mission and defence tasks of all members of the Alliance has expanded the space directly important for national security. By participating in NATO, European Union and United Nations peacekeeping missions and operations with 460 members of the Armed Forces in 2009 in one rotation, the Republic of Croatia contributes to international peace, stability and security. With such engagement, the Republic of Croatia has increased international reputation, showing international solidarity, high attachment to peace, and allied responsibility. So far, experience from armed forces' engagements in peacekeeping operations confirms that they are capable of taking over highly demanding tasks in international peacekeeping missions and operations. The priority in defence reform and defence management in 2009 was to plan affordable operational capacity and improve management processes. After joining NATO, activities have been intensified to bring national defence planning into line with principles, methods and procedures of allied defence planning, which are well assumed by many years of participation in NATO's partnership planning and resolution process. The process of the priority implementation of the 2008 partnership goals, which became the national goals of the force after NATO-U accession, was continued. The emphasis was on the objectives of equipment and training of units declared to participate in NATO operations, and on training staff from all three branches of the armed forces to participate in multinational commands. Our Armed Forces in 2009 completed their basic tasks for the protection of territorial sovereignty, the integrity of the Republic of Croatia. They focused primarily on tasks related to transforming the defence system in the context of adapting collective defence tasks stemming from NATO membership and future membership in the European Union. Major activities in the Armed Forces were aimed at achieving an adequate state of ability, the implementation of missions and tasks, integration and interoperability within NATO, and the development of capabilities and activities in the operational missions of the European Union. Due to the reduction of the defence budget during 2009, there has been a adjustment of the equipment and modernisation process, but nevertheless the level of ability and the implementation of the tasks of the Croatian Armed Forces has been retained. Armed forces have stepped up their participation in NATO operations through additional engagement under the ISAP peacekeeping operation and involvement in NATO's operation in Kosovo, KFOR. Armed forces are actively involved in the European Union peace operation, Somalia Atalanta, the fight against pirates. During 2009, the Armed Forces participated in a total of 12 UN peacekeeping missions. Our Armed Forces supported civil institutions in the country, participating in the fire-fighting season, air transporting lives of endangered persons, emergency transport of transplant authorities, search and rescue in mountainous and mountainous non-accessible areas, rescue at sea, and assistance in the construction of municipal infrastructure in units of local and regional, regional self-government. Search and rescue tasks were conducted in cooperation with the State Protection and Rescue Administration, the Croatian Mountain Rescue and Coast Guard Service of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the preparedness system concept based on the standards of the Allied Operation Command Force has created preconditions for building a new armed forces preparedness system that will respond to the demands and challenges brought by full NATO membership, as well as new requirements and needs of the national defence system. The key military capabilities that they have systematically developed and developed with NATO are timely availability of forces, the ability to command and control, the ability to exploit information space, the ability to network integration and integration into NATO, the ability to move and move forces, the sustainability of forces and the ability to operate, and the ability to survive and protect forces. In the field of human resources management, the implementation of multi-annual staff reduction cycles in line with the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces during 2009 has reached the target size of the military personnel in the Armed Forces. During the implementation of the staff-separation plan and during 2009, a quarterly isolation model was applied, and the possibility of temporary detention of the required staff. The staff who do not meet the health criteria for the active military service, the staff of inadequate professional staff who are not able to further develop professionally and who meet the conditions for retired persons, have been singled out. In 2009, all pre-conditions were created and preparations were made to enable the separation of activities and members of the Air and Technical Service in the newly established Trade Company Air and Technical Centre d.d. In 2009, the process of re-designing of the then administrations and defence offices was launched, the establishment of the defence and defence departments, so that the start of this year was the reconstruction that in the management section of the Ministry of Defence reduced the number of executioners by 333, when we look at construction sites, when we look at those filled with employees then it was a reduction for about 150 employees. The targeted staff structure is also achieved through the implementation of the staff procurement project through the Kadet project and voluntary military service, professional development and personal support carried out successfully in 2009. Within two deadlines in 2009 a reference was made to voluntary handbooks for military service. In each group there were 250 voluntary handbooks, so a total of 500. Professional development enables the military system to reach, maintain and develop the skills needed for the successful conduct of the assigned duties. It is carried out with a growing and subsequent military and functional education, the assignment of various duties, self-development, and the promotion of service and promotion in rank. Personal support is focused on the evaluation of work and covers the area of wages and other material benefits, housing, health care, recognition for contributions and credits to the award of honor and recognition, and preparation for the end of the military career. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the sale of apartments owned by the Ministry of Defence in 2009 has created assumptions for the sale of apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia which are managed by the Ministry of Defence which do not constitute apartments for the official needs of our system, and the funds achieved by the sale of these apartments will be used to obtain and equip apartments for official needs for our members. During the process of equipment and modernization of the Armed Forces during 2009, projects were continued in line with the funds in the mood, with particular emphasis on the engagement of domestic producers. Most often I cite an example of a community of textile producers, 14 of them who have come forward and won the competition for the job of sewing new uniforms for Croatian soldiers. Based on the contract with the consortium of Patria from Finland, Djuro Đaković special vehicles on the delivery of 126 base armored vehicles are under way to produce the first domestic base armored vehicles to which the weapons and special equipment will be integrated. I can say that practically in this time successfully completed transfer of technology and "Djuro Djakovic" successfully in Croatia produces these combat armored vehicles and delivers to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In the Croatian Navy, the introduction of the operating use of the “Helsinki” class boards was carried out. In the Croatian Air Force, activities were continued to calculate technical offers for a multi-purpose combat aircraft, presentations of manufacturers were held, and further information will be collected, and a feasibility study for a multi-purpose fighter aircraft will be carried out. The FPS 117 air surveillance radar system from the project "Sky" used for the needs of the Armed Forces as well as Civil Aviation Control, and as a source of radar data in the system... has been successfully established and introduced into work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2009, the government's working group on making lists and categorization of unspective military properties produced a list of these properties, the exhibition for them 216 was produced, and will be decided on their further purpose by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The financing of the defence system during 2009, due to emerging unfavourable economic opportunities and the introduction of rationalisation measures, followed the parameters of the Ministry of Finance. These changes affected the implementation of the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces, so it was necessary to redefine the scope and dynamics of the project envisaged. The upcoming period continues with the process of drawing up new strategic defence documents that will give further direction to the development of the defence system. As the report also covered the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia, the central authorities of the state administration followed the implementation of defence preparations in the country as shown in this report. In the past year, Croatia has fully implemented its obligations to participate in international operations and missions. Armed Forces have confirmed the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to actively contribute to the building of peace, security and stability around the world, making the Republic of Croatia a reliable partner for Member States and aspirants of Euro-Atlantic integration that can meet security challenges. The activities of promotion in the field of equipment, training, management, command and supervision in the preparation and implementation of operations Special attention in the upcoming period will be continued to strengthen the training skills and circulation of the Croatian contingent in the ISAF Peace Operation and will continuously improve the training process. It will continue with the management process in the defence system, improving supervisory and analytical functions in the context of business rationalisation, implementing austerity measures as part of proturecession measures and improving efficiency in all segments of the system. The next period will continue to equip all three branches of Armed Forces with weapons and equipment within the framework of available means and adapted to dynamics, and the introduction of new working technology systems with the aim of achieving and maintaining targeted capabilities in accordance with national and Allied priorities. Armed forces and the entire defence system continue to pass the period of transformation and construction of new abilities. In addition to all transformation processes and challenges, the Armed Forces and the defence system in general successfully carry out their tasks prescribed by the Constitution, laws and strategic documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53370	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Defence Committee, Mr. Boris Shream is the chairman of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53371	Mr. President, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. At the 31st session held on 28 April this year, the Croatian Defence Committee discussed the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia for the year 2009 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government. On the basis of Article 64a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed the Annual Report as a home working body. The proposer's representative in the opening statement explained the Annual Report in detail and stressed that through the support and implementation of Euro-Atlantic integration processes, Croatia actively contributes to the stabilisation of complex political processes in the region and the establishment of trust. By participating in NATO and EU operations and in UN peacekeeping missions, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia contribute to international peace, stability and security. Furthermore, the proposer pointed out that during 2009, human resource management reforms were continued and that the target size of the military personnel in the Armed Forces was reached. A study of domestic assault rifles has been continued, a certain amount of arms and murderous means, personal protection and combat protection has been obtained, the production of base combat weapons vehicles by pedestrians has begun. The Fleet System includes Helsinki class ships, the integration of the Croatian airspace control system into NATO and has been introduced into the use of a new fire-fighting aircraft. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, individual committee members raised questions to which the applicant's representative answered concerning the reduction of funds from the state budget, which are intended for the Armed Forces to leave the operationalisation of the long-term development plan of the Croatian Armed Forces in 2007 to 2015, preparedness of members of the Armed Forces for the Firearms Season. In addition, individual members of the board asked whether the preparedness of members of the Guard brigade was carried out and proposed to amend the law in order to bring the salaries of VSO staff in line with the salaries of employees of the Ministry of Defence and members of the Armed Forces. With regard to the part of the annual report on page 93, the chairman of the Committee indicated that he was given information on a daily basis that the redesign of the Administration and the Defence Office was not carried out transparently and in accordance with the Law on State Employees and the Regulation on the Classification of Jobs in the State Service and that the administrative inspection of the Ministry of Administration would, if so, have had something to do. He also drew attention to the defence minister that the board did not receive feedback on the departure of board members to visit members of the Armed Forces in the peace operation in Afghanistan and on the dates of visits to the armed forces branches and the Croatian Military University. As regards the request of the Vice-President of the Defence Committee, the defence minister has committed to reply in writing whether there are currently active military personnel with the rank of generals who are not assigned to the position of that act. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53372	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Sobol, on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53373	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. At its 33rd session, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with the State of Defence Report as an interested working body. In his opening statement, the proposing representative reported on the trend of increasing and stronger positioning of women within the Armed and Defence Forces system of the Republic of Croatia, which he finds extremely positive. The Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces employ 3282 women and 16.2% of the total number of women with 12.6% of women in the Armed Forces, in the management section of the Ministry of Defence 50.4% of the total number of employees. In the leadership and command duties, women are represented with 29.1% in the legal section of the Ministry of Defence and 5.9% in the Armed Forces. There are 11.2% of women among senior officers. The debate, which followed, pointed out the defence ministry's obligations to implement the national policy measures to promote gender equality 2006-2010, i.e. to promote the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 13/25, which I quote: "will ensure greater representation of women in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with special emphasis on their higher representation and in the leadership positions". According to the report, the data were properly shown by sex, a Plan was developed to promote and establish gender equality in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces and progress was seen in the reporting compared to earlier reports, but it was indicated that there were no concrete indications in relation to national policy obligations. The proposal is to provide further explanations in future reports on the role and activities of the Committee on Gender Equality at the Human Resources Council of the Ministry of Defence. The need to popularise military occupations is highlighted in both boys and girls at an earlier age so that we have a more balanced sexual structure of employees in defence and armed forces in the future. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion adopting the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces for 2009, with the State of Defence Preparations report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53374	Thank you. We have one notice before further notice. The 32nd session of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will take place today, so on May 26th at 14 am at Janko Drašković's Hall, 202, second floor. Notify the chairman of the Committee, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club believes this report should be accepted because it is more quality than the past two, than the 2007 and 2008 reports. However, this is also a reason to point out some features and some visible problems that the report fails to conceal. I'd say two features first. It is likely that everyone is pleased that there has been a consensus between HDZ and SDP on constitutional changes, particularly in relation to Article 45. But it's probably nice to all of us that it's in Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provided that so far it has not been possible for all issues concerning decisions and important decisions in the defence sector to be decided by the President of the Republic of Croatia. So, the government proposes, the President of the Republic of Croatia as Supreme Military Commander gives or does not give consent and then the Croatian Parliament makes the final decision. I point out that the SDP suggested it before Dr. Ivo Josipovic is elected president of the Republic of Croatia. I think it'll improve the defense decision-making system and we'll have better results than we have today. Another feature I would like to point out is the work of the Defence Committee. This committee was formed about two years ago and apart from the classic tasks that the home working body of the Croatian Parliament developed on defence issues we would have said a specific way of working, which is that we went on the ground and as soon as we were formed, it was not a long time ago. We met on the spot in work meetings with problems, with the tasks of the Ministry of Defence and the Head of the Ministry of Defence we held a meeting and held a meeting with the Head of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday, we were just visiting the Croatian military school, and by the end of the 6th month, we are scheduled to visit members of the Defence Committee, where our members are sitting, of course, too. I'll just mention two General Stipetic and General Tus. We will visit the Croatian Land Army, remind the Croatian Navy and remind the Croatian Air Force. These talks, which mark the critical reference to the current situation, include constructive proposals that I must admit that the Ministry of Defence and the Head of the General Staff is in the majority and accepts. We also concluded, though, by revote and I was sorry, by revoted the party that every three months the Defence Committee should be informed by the Ministry of Defence of the overall situation in the Armed Forces as well as the state of our peacekeeping missions abroad. So now here's where we got our first report in the last three months. We now expect a second report, and as I would like to say actively, the parent working body is not only waiting for proposals from the ministry to affect the state of defence sector so that it becomes better. Now I would like to point out that this more strange, strange relationship between the Ministry of Defence and the Committee when it comes to some very important things such as the conclusion of the Committee of 10 December 2008 was unanimously adopted so that it would be time for the delegation, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to visit our members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan because all delegations, all the structures of the state government, have been several times. But the representatives of the Croatian Parliament were not once, so we felt it was unnatural that the representatives of the Croatian Parliament did not visit our forces in Afghanistan because we here decide in the end whether these forces will go there, in which number and how long they will be in those actions. So it's been 18 months and we haven't made that visit yet. I hope that the Ministry of Defense to organise this visit will finally realize that it is necessary and will enable us to do so. And secondly, more importantly. I would now have a little problem with it, and all in order to make the relationship better through one example of the relationship between the ministry and the board as the parent working body of the Croatian Defence Assembly. So, we had an incident in Afghanistan in the 9th month of 2009, so last year from four members of the Croatian Army who are allegedly because I don't know, I still haven't received any written report as chairman of the board, or as a member of the board, refused the order to go to surgery, to the field. And now there have been writings in the media, so I have been informed through the media, probably by other members and members of the board that they allegedly refused because they were not well equipped. And now these speculations about how they turned it down and why they turned it down we just don't have an answer for today. It's been eight months since it was concluded at the board's session that this report should be given to us. We have been promised that the report will be submitted as soon as an investigation by the commission formed in the jurisdiction of the Chief Staff and the Ministry of Defence is completed. Now I'm asking a question here. I'm, I'm sorry to have to put him here because I kept warning, because I think the defense is a state matter and that wherever possible in the working body, a deal needs to be made and a job needs to be done. I am now asking the question, and how is the Croatian Parliament now doing as it says in the Constitution in one provision democratic oversight of the work of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, if its home working body, and at the promise of the defence ministry, cannot receive one such report. I ask the question of how it can perform this then surveillance if in this very significant, very sensitive question we cannot obtain such written information. I also noticed by doing this job that unlike the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, they belong to as you know exactly as the Committee is called because it once had a defence as the sector for which it was responsible. They do it much more efficiently and better because they have a elaborate system, a system that allows it. I didn't think we'd need any regulations now, some kind of legal change, that we'd just do it because we have a legitimate right to do it as Parliament's parent body. I guess not, so then we'll have to open up some questions. And finally, some more open questions that I'm going to ask the minister, so I'd like to ask him to answer them at this session. First question. Why is it late for the addition or renewal of all strategic documents from the defence strategy and military strategy to the long-term plan for the development of the armed forces now in force from 2006 to 2015? Some things have already changed as far as funding is concerned, as regards the funding base, as well as the concrete things that were different from what was provided for in the document, so this question is justified? Secondly, why is training voluntary handbooks, I'd say in silence, shortened from 14 to 8 weeks, is that enough to train? I ask this question because I know that the basic training in Požega ended in 235 voluntary handbooks, which is extremely small, because it took almost 10 times as much to have armed forces in the next 10 years with at least 20 thousand trained persons in reserve. You should think about the future. And to think about the future, you have to work now. Third, why is there a lack of active military personnel, namely 15 thousand 745, and 16 thousand are planned, and why are there more civil servants and tenants, there are 2 thousand 583, and a thousand 600 are planned? So 448 military personnel were employed at the Ministry of Defence, and by standards they were to be employed at a maximum of 120. Fourth, why are pilots placed in an unequal position? Namely, pilots have been educated for 5 years, but only after 8 to 10 years of flying are they awarded the Master's title, which is why they are in an unequal position towards other students who are studying according to the Bologna process, and the Master's title is obtained immediately after completing a five-year study. And fifthly, Mr. Minister here has stated only in one segment of the ministry's policy towards employees employed in the Croatian Army, and its institutions, that 2,000 apartments are about to be sold, and 2,000 are kept for official purposes, which I think is a good policy, there's only one problem, which is why these 2,000 apartments, which are also quite destructive, are 40, 50 years old, are not sold, you know why? That's not what the minister said. Because they're assessed by the tax administration at a price that is maximum and then people don't buy it. The Ministry of Construction also has a role to play here, so I ask that the State's Attorney's Office, to coordinate in the Government and to enable this process, to help our employees employed in our defence sector and motivate them much more to work in this sector. And finally, we could do much more with better cooperation, cooperation from the Ministry of Defence, the board and the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53376	Thank you. Defence Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want a few things here now said by Mr. Sprem on behalf of the SDP club, respond. Because from the beginning, I have pointed out and welcomed the Parliament's choice of the Defence Committee as one of our parent committees, which is actually in the role of supporting the Ministry of Defence of the Armed Forces. And we have been developing and developing such cooperation from the very beginning, and such cooperation wants the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces to develop and I expect that this committee is somewhere from the position of politicizing rather than one of them looks from, to defence and armed forces from the position of state interest, therefore outside politics and beyond some day-to-day political bickering. Why am I saying that? Because Mr. Shreem is on board and now through the report from the board, and now here's the speech on behalf of the club mentions some things that just don't stand. So I'm sorry if the members of the SDP complained to you during the reshuffle of the office and the defense administration that they are no longer the heads of individual departments, because there are others who are probably better rated and satisfying what they should have for that place. But this cannot be interpreted as an intransparentity of the work of the Ministry of Defence, because they should then be informed by the union, whose letter I have, which was addressed to the Ministry of Justice and to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Partnership, where they can quote: "The union of state and local officials and substitutes of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the reshuffle has achieved excellent cooperation with the Ministry of Defence as an employer and social partner in order to provide more complete information to officials on the course of the reconstruction process and the provision of extra staff, which is witnessed by a whole series of meetings and activities that are based on it.", a union quote completed. Then please speak with arguments, and let's not speak with the political positions of a party, no matter which party it is. This time it's SDP. Therefore, I ask you, therefore, this process has been carried out very transparently, for all that anyone, anyone who feels threatened to commit an offence in the procedure etc., has all the instruments that can be complained to the competent authorities, institutions and that everything is carried out, because I repeat everything that has been done, has been done very transparently and therefore in order to in some way all the people who are excess, and they are somewhere around 150 during this reconstruction, trying to take care of either in other state bodies, either in local self-government, administration, etc. As for the road to Afghanistan, I believe that you will also appreciate the need to assess the security aspect of this committee's journey and all the other circumstances, so I believe that you will remember by the middle of last year are very intense activities when it comes to budget rebalances and measures, therefore anti-recessional, everything that has happened in Croatia, and I am sure that this year will follow, that the trip to Afghanistan is something that will certainly contribute to both better understanding and parliamentary representatives and members of the board on the situation in Afghanistan and on the position of our soldiers in Afghanistan. An incident in Afghanistan. So it's not true that you've been informed from the media, because you've got that, I'd say a rough, raw report from the Chief of Staff before the procedure was carried out. So you got it yourself. Even past the procedure, and past the Secretary of Defense. That's true. Also, the tight procedure is under way, the first stage is over, when the appeals are completed, and when all the comprehensive report is complete you will get about what happened so when it comes to the four soldiers in Afghanistan, and I think the information is oral and the information you have from the Chief of Staff is the first information that I repeat you had in time information. And you knew what was going on. When we talk about voluntary military service, from 14 weeks to 8 weeks, training is reduced by the decision of the main headquarters. So the waists. So those who train voluntary handbooks. Not according to the Department of Defense. So I can't judge or consider now that the Chief Staff who suggested that instead of 14 is enough and 8 weeks that basic training with voluntary handbooks ends up saying that no, that's not so. 'Cause I guess we should trust people who are in the military, which is why they're training voluntary handbooks. As for the apartments, so we made all assumptions and procedures for the sale of apartments. The fact is, according to estimates, what you said to the IRS, the prices of these apartments are above what is acceptable to those who would go to ransom. That's true. And because of this, the process at the Ministry of Defence has stopped and the sale of apartments will be united along with all other state-owned apartments, and there is Minister Matulović-Dropulić in front of the government to create a model with the State's attorney to come up with an acceptable price for the purchase of apartments so that these apartments you're talking about, you rightly say that it's too high price and people won't enter that ransom, so to get to the price that will be acceptable to people and thus sell apartments that don't benefit us as far as the official apartments in the Ministry of Defence are concerned. And the funds from the apartments sold could be used to build those apartments of personnel, official in those places for which they need the Armed Forces. Here, I'll just take so much, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53378	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said at some point to paraphrase, there shouldn't be any politicizing in this business. I think I've said it several times, and I've always pointed out, and as chairman of the Defence Committee, that we should work in agreement as much as possible because it's a state matter, it's a matter of defence. But I don't know when I got it, I really need to take a good look at the official Defense Department report... I got it I didn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't get it, but we got the information, but when you hooked up to it, one half-information or I don't know, some elements of information on-site on the board, at a closed session of your associates. And then he promised to give us official information in a short time as soon as he completed the investigation in about three weeks. Look, we sat there and we didn't get it until today. That's what I'm talking about. And it's not a relationship that's okay, but look, it's not about a simple relationship, it's about us not carrying out democratic surveillance and you're not letting us do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53380	Okay. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53381	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, implementation of the human resources policy and the 2009 Report on the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with the 2009 State of Defence Preparations Report in the Republic of Croatia, I hope it deserves more attention from the Croatian public for a wide range of reasons. Certainly the state of defence preparations, the overall situation in the Armed Forces, the readiness of the defence system is the basis of national security of each country and so on the Republic of Croatia. This report is very exhaustive and very extensive, almost on 125 pages with many topics and contents. Of those related to the museum construction of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, archives, property-legal affairs and to key strategic, important issues that determine the operational capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in particular in demanding peace operations such as the one in Afghanistan. Some topics in this context deserve more attention and may not be sufficiently highlighted. As is the question of the reliable predictable air transport of our contingent to distant Kabul. Certainly one basic finding regarding this report, I would say is extremely important. The scope and exhaustion of the report, but perhaps insufficient analysis and focus on those issues which are of paramount importance for the readiness of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in particular under the conditions of the global economic crisis and conditions in which the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia operates today are almost characteristic of all the Armed Forces in the world. How to deal with the crisis and what impact this global crisis, the problems of the state budget also have on the state, equipment and modernisation of the Armed Forces. In this comprehensive and comprehensive report, perhaps some topics deserve special attention in view of their impact on the readiness of the Armed Forces, above all I find training and education as the basis of the readiness of each Armed Forces and thus the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Training is the basis of willingness and the basis of ability, development, doctrine of training especially in conditions where demanding peace operations require additional training that requires interoperability and compatibility between different field units in conditions that are not at all simple or easy. The system of education as a basis for quality, planning skills, as the quality of future officers, generals, etc., I would say is a special topic and deserves perhaps wider debate and wider attention in Croatian society. What's the quality of our military education? What's his character? What is his compliance with the civil education system and what is equally important is the number of foreign officers, officers of education institutions in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia? It is part of international co-operation which is also of indirect importance. One of the key topics concerns the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces in 2006. - 2015. What are the effects of budget cuts on the implementation of the Long-term Development Programme of the Armed Forces? In the Republic of Croatia they are certainly not small and have significant consequences and a significant impact on the modernisation, equipment of the Armed Forces, and this ultimately means the ability and security of our troops in demanding and challenging peace operations. This should be discussed because this is being discussed in the Armed Forces of all countries, especially NATO member states that have demanding and challenging tasks in numerous peace operations. International defence cooperation certainly requires special attention, bilateral defence cooperation as part of the overall foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, multilateral defence cooperation and all issues related to supervision, arms and confidence building measures in particular in the region. Management of human resources is also a subject that deserves special analysis, how to provide in the Armed Forces a quality, motivated well-educated officer for the next decade, what is the percentage of officers who leave the Armed Forces, officers for various reasons and at all an analysis of the quality of human resources is an extremely important topic that I would say more debate not only in the Croatian Parliament, but also on a whole series of different round tables, stands etc. Material resources, equipment with weapons and military equipment are mainly related to the supply of weapons and military equipment abroad for understandable and justified reasons, because the possibilities of the Croatian arms and military equipment industry, unfortunately for various understandable and justified reasons, are very limited but the initiatives and efforts to implement part of the equipment of the Armed Forces in the Republic of Croatia through different consortiums and through the Croatian economy, and a very important initiative that requires support. And in this sense, what the Minister, consortium or group of Croatian companies in the field of textiles that can in a small niche create a quality that has wider competitiveness is very important. The helmet, gun, products that date their development in the 1990s and normally raises the question that this new product, which Croatia, the conditional arms industry and military equipment can launch, which are products that can be competitive, which is the level of their complexity, which is what is acceptable, and which is what can be too ambitious and despite significant investments will not lead to significant results. In any case, the military industry in many countries is the source of the global competitiveness of the economies of these countries and their companies. It is not too much to stress a whole range of companies that, despite the global crisis, do not even tend to grow in the area of arms and military equipment. Therefore, an analysis of the impact of the global financial crisis on the Armed Forces is a topic that is highly current and important. Let me briefly quote the Chief of Staff or the Chief of Joint Chiefs of Armed Forces of the United States who pointed out this: the financial crisis will unfortunately have a significant impact on global uncertainty and instability around the world. One high official also pointed out what should be taken into account: the reduction of defence budgets has an impact on the so-called so-called ‘. Acquisition policy, reducing the quality of equipment, but also what is particularly important research and development goes through in these reductions worst. This component of each defence ministry’s budget certainly results in the ability of the arms and military equipment industry, as well as the state and competitiveness of the products produced by that State. Here are a few words about international peace missions which are certainly one of the most significant contributions of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the overall foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. NATO peacekeeping operations especially in Afghanistan deserve attention, not only because of the fact that this moment is over 300 of our members. This number will soon increase and many questions related to the quality of their lives, the quality of their equipment, their safety deserve to be said, perhaps more attention, and one that I very often point out seems to me that there is no need to ignore referring to mental health and possible problems so-called. post-traumatic war syndrome. Data from some other missions, some other Armed Forces show that the shift of PTSD in peacekeeping operations in Afghanistan is about 10% moving, and this can certainly have a long-term impact on the mental health of people returning from these demanding and risky peacekeeping operations. In any case, the contribution of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to NATO's peacekeeping operation in Afghanistan is very recognizable at the international stage in part of quality training and cooperation with the security forces of the Afghan state, the Afghan Army, etc. The man and the Afghan police who have been following numbers since over 200 thousand police and soldiers this hour, and that is the force that should take over the management of a peacekeeping operation in Afghanistan, given the predictable reduction in the coming years of NATO's contingent. The mission in Kosovo is very important and recognizable in the wider international community as well as in a whole series of other missions involving Croatian officers, officers and soldiers, such as the missions in Golan, Atalanta, ALTEA in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Eulex Kosovo, etc. A few more words about training. Training deserves special attention, but material support and training equipment also deserves certain financial resources. Part of the Croatian officers on the mission to Afghanistan will conduct pilot training on M171 helicopters to assist the Afghan Armed Forces. A few months ago, the simulators for these helicopters were installed in Kabul and provide members of the Afghanistan Armed Forces with training in a rational, efficient and economical and quality way. Certainly Croatian officers as mentors of this training should have the same conditions, the same equipment in the Republic of Croatia. However, due to understandable reasons relating to the reduction of the defence budget, some projects to modernise the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are certainly a special component for quality training. In the end, I'd say something that seems to me to be extremely important. The media relationship towards the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia towards the Peace Operation in Afghanistan must be more quality, more serious and more responsible. Why am I saying that? For the simple reason, the HVO armory broke down in the middle of a battle with the Taliban, a big headline in a daily newspaper. It's completely incorrect. I was sitting at dinner with our contingent commander in Kabul. His cell phone rang, he apologized, and he only told the general for a few moments. He came back later and said we're having trouble with the alternators and I hope that this malfunction will be resolved very soon. No fighting, no Taliban. Therefore, that information and that truth also came from the Ministry of Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, it came from the Chief Staff, even personally to the journalist, no it is not true. The question is why such sensationalism, why such scandals that make it impossible to discuss serious matters when it comes to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It's not the first, it's not the last, it's not the only case. Care about the quality of our defence system deserves the seriousness and responsibility of all of us who are sitting not only in the Croatian Parliament, but all those and in the media who are monitoring the work of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, especially the work of the Croatian contingent in such an important, responsible task as it is in Afghanistan. And finally, for all these reasons, given the quality and comprehensiveness of this report, the HDZ Club will give it full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53382	Thank you. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53383	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I really don't care about politicizing, but I have the impression that this report is at least beautiful. I think the truth is much blacker than it's shown. I can't say that the report's been cut, but in some ways the report's running away from being. And the problem is simply familiar. This year, for Armed Forces, 4 billion kunas were secured in the budget. And now with 4 billion 767 million kuna we can have when it comes to the Croatian Army exactly what we have. I dare say an inoperable system for which neither the generals nor the minister, nor the president of the state, nor the government, but simply no money, and then our equipment is exactly what it is, free to say one ruin. Or, as far as this report is concerned for 2009, 5 billion kuna was secured in 2009 in the budget. Now look at all the pay and what does that say on your shirt? ... Here you can see only for wages and material expenditures went 4 billion 829 million kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So what's left for the equipment? There are 147.1 million kunas left for the equipment. With 147 million kunas you cannot maintain the system, let alone further equip that system. Marine forces are, like, aircraft really not operational, Coast Guard. That's what page 81 is talking about. It's actually fiction. It doesn't actually exist. We recently read that here I'm going to quote: "At the recent anniversary of Operation Flash, there was first time there was no overfly of fighter planes, because at that moment only two MiGs were correct. This information speaks enough of an alarming situation in the Air Force that has 12 MiGs on paper and on average barely 4 are ready for the task. About a year ago, on the basis of offers of 7 aircraft manufacturers, the state peak narrowed down the number of suitable to 3. It's the planes of the 39 Swedish Gripen and the modernized versions of the American Phantom 16 offered by the Americans. In addition, there is an offer from the US government offering 12 Phantoms 16 block 25 from the US National Guard system. These planes would get Croatia for free but should invest about 300 million dollars for spare parts, training pilots, technicians, adjustment of hangars, runways and so on." The same situation is true with helicopters. The state summit for fear, and I support them there, does not want a VIP helicopter used only by the military, after that experience that was if I'm not mistaken in Vukovar, absolutely these people, and I understand, but I don't need to simply expose the military. On the other hand, what else do you say here? What has to be acknowledged is to commend it's the equipment of our soldiers in Afghanistan, they're great-trained boys, but it should also be my court to reconsider and withdraw the army from that lost mission in Afghanistan. All parliaments can speak of Afghanistan as a failed mission, unfortunately we cannot talk about it. We are afraid of the thesis, if there is no Croatia in Afghanistan, we will not be in Europe either. And I'm sure after returning to the Croatian President of Washington, we'll soon send another dozen soldiers to Afghanistan. On the other hand, when Croatia meets all the conditions for the European Union, and I have the impression that Brussels has extended our entry into the European Union in 2012 to 13 or 14 years, to be cynical, Europe may fall apart. Okay, I agree that we need to meet the European Union standards for our own sake. I don't think that when it comes to meeting or harmonising with European legislation in the part I read today in "The Evening Party" that sex between a brother and a sister, and father and daughter or mother and son wouldn't be punished if both sides were adult and in their right mind, as if this could be done at all. But let's let it go now. It is also Europe among other things. I don't want to talk about Europe anymore, but I want to talk about Afghanistan. But before that, what's the point of this report? On page 7, it is said literally in the first sentence that an analysis of the immediate security environment of the Republic of Croatia shows that the traditional military threat to the Republic of Croatia was not expressed in 2009 and it absolutely stands. But further on page 13, it is said that during 2009, defence policy focused on the implementation of the defence sector's tasks and obligations through which intensive support was provided to the efforts of the Republic of Croatia's foreign policy to join NATO and the European Union and, in fact, it is gentlemen and essence. The entire defence policy of the last years of the Republic of Croatia has been subordinated exclusively to NATO, Europe, the United Nations and so on. There is no more autonomy, our autonomy when it comes to the army equal to NATO, Croatia is not at risk, and the task is to monitor NATO before creating other conditions in these areas. On page 15, the Armed Forces were said to have fulfilled their basic tasks in 2009 to protect territorial sovereignty, the integrity of the Republic of Croatia. They primarily focused on tasks related to the transformation of our defence system in the context of adapting to collective defence tasks stemming from our membership in NATO and future membership in the European Union. So all the missions in which Croatia participates, from the ISAF in Afghanistan and Kosovo, even Iraq, are then listed on the following pages, on this a little later, Chad, Central African Republic, Somalia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, through the United Nations we also have representatives, etc. What gentlemen, however, offends me when I emphasized this Iraq, that we have somehow infiltrated this conflict in Iraq, not the military, there are no Croatian soldiers, officers, etc., perhaps individuals through some action, yes, but there are no armies. But here on page 18, it's said that some dogs are trained in these areas for the needs of Iraq. Dogs are expensive animals, best friends and clear people extremely useful, but it's an indirect inclusion in that conflict down in Iraq, and I don't think it's a good idea. As for Afghanistan, more than 300 troops of the Republic of Croatia were said to be there. A soldier in Croatia's defence budget is about 750 thousand kuna, 300 million total. Our soldiers are increasingly in the conflict zone, so let me quote that a recent driver could not launch a vehicle when the Taliban in a village in the Mazar e Sharifa area attacked a group of members of the Afghan army trained by Croatian soldiers. They write in the paper, after returning to attack the Croats managed to save the vehicle, fix it, get it out safely. MORH spokesman Goran Grasinic confirmed problems with vehicles, but denied information that the LMV failed in the middle of a battle with the Taliban. The LMV stopped during a recent NATO operation in northern Afghanistan involving both the Afghan army and the Croatian instructors who train them. So it's not a problem in those vehicles, everything can go wrong. The problem is I would say in a corrupt mission that will not bear fruit, but from Afghanistan the path of Croatia may also be returned to the coffin. Of course, no one calls for it, but I guess that's what it has to count for. Clearly, when we talk about this report, everything would be different if there was money in the country. Croatia clearly has no money for many activities, neither for pensions nor for healthcare or for shipbuilding. 30 days ago, the prime minister announced an economic recovery based on the fact that for the first three months of this year, industrial production was more 0.3% compared to the same period last year, that in April, the same industrial production of gentlemen would have fallen by 6.6% compared to a catastrophic April of 2009. So what am I going to say? No money, no army costs, no money, no modernisation, no new means of fighting, no new techniques, and finally, between separations, for example. for the military, even though it should be recognised by the nearest European standards and, on the other hand, health care, everyone will probably normally prefer to choose this second. And so let's be honest and admit to ourselves that with 4.7 billion kuna, and going and budget rebalancing means we're going to take the army for sure another 200, 300 million kuna, we just can't have better Armed Forces. Clearly, we've got great young men, we've got great girls, and that's the basis, that should be pointed out. 2310 is a woman, men 16 thousand 18, a total of 18 thousand 328 individuals count our Armed Forces, but our equipment is the same as with these money alone can be, almost not operational. As I said for the first time, as I read, I was saying, there was no overflight of fighter planes for the celebration of the Flash in 2010 because only two were capable, so it might be better if they were actually in hangars. However, why am I also reporting for the word? Croatia will have to obtain some funds, so it may also have to buy planes. If so, then let it be connected to these famous offset programs and if the Swedes offer Croatian aircraft for ships I think it should be the right way. Not because the Oilman competed there but only because it could be the right way. Those planes to us, if we don't want the Italians, the Slovenians, the Serbs watching the sky, and we don't want their ships. We boast, here we are before said someone to export guns, combat rifles, why not export and spent weapons, why we destroy it and finally, it is time to connect the military industry from the ex Yugoslavia space through one joint production, not to restore that country that has no future but to be able to clearly perform on third markets through certain products because we make sense that we arm the transporters from the Finns, and then the Finns make them in our businesses, specifically "Juri Djakovic". Finally, I would personally like to know the truth in some generals' entrepreneurial activities. Do you, for example? Generals Royce, Rosso, Gotovina buys public enterprises, no, hydro power and then public companies fund their defenses. It's quite unusual, but it would be interesting to know how it is possible for a general with 11 or 12000 or 15 valuable kunas to buy one hydro power plant. Okay, maybe there's a lot of night work, journals and stuff. But no matter what, there's something illogical. General Istrian doesn't have it in his act, but more importantly, the military will use so much real estate that this action will sell to the people who are there for sure welcome. All clear needs to be put into operation. Is that the value of the property has fallen significantly, at the lowest possible price today. But tomorrow will probably be lower. And for the end. With 4.7 billion kuna, we simply cannot have better aviation, better coast guard or navy, better transporters, etc. And in the future we'll be back as maybe '91. rely exclusively on young men and girls who serve in our units.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53384	Thank you. Two corrections. First Kresimir Cosic. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53385	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I must correct the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Caine. First, our soldiers are increasingly in the conflict zone. That's not true. Second. A standing vehicle from the Croatian Army in battle with the Taliban. That's not true. Third. The lost mission of the International Community in Afghanistan. That's not true. And so on. A whole series of incorrect statements. What's the problem? The situation in Afghanistan cannot be understood by reading bad news, bad articles, unverified and 5,000km away is difficult to understand what the International Community is doing there. Very short. For the last five years, I've been there five times, and I can say with full confidence, and here are the ministers who and the secretary of state were in Afghanistan. The international community is approaching the end of military operations from Kabul, only airports, north, west. It is finally preparing to take over southern provinces at the border with Pakistan and will end military operations. That's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53386	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53387	Dear colleague Cain said that there was no traditional military threat over Croatia. I would correct it and say that modern terrorism has overcome itself. Because if the Minister of Health continues to close birthplaces in Croatia, I say so because there is a birthplace closed in Djakov, which is four Djakovchana in Afghanistan. Then I don't know if I'll be Ljubljana's army soon, Gracani. There will be no Croats if there is a continued trend in the closure of the birthplace. So this is my appeal to this Parliament and also to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to review the case of the closure of the birthplace, because the city of Djakovo is also the center of the archbishop, and the city of Strossmayer and the city of more than 30,000 inhabitants. Thank you very much. I have the consent of my parents to this photograph. That's my daughter.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53388	Nice. Your daughter is beautiful and beautiful, everything you said. But you misused the Rules of Procedure and corrected the incorrect allegations of Agent Cain. Cain didn't say anything about a maternity home in Djakov.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53389	... There will be no Croats in the Croatian Army. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] It is a threat to Croatia. Just like there aren't any born Djakovchans.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53390	No, no, no, no, no, He's got us!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53391	Here I am asking you that if we have for that seminar of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 15 million kuna that we have for both maternity and Supetar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53392	Okay. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53393	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to express my satisfaction that the minister is with us today. It's increasingly rare for us to have ministers in the assembly during the debate on certain bill proposals or reports, so I think it's good for Mr. Minister to be there, we don't have to agree on everything. But you will certainly give us the most relevant answers to our question. My colleagues and colleagues, the country's defence is undoubtedly one of the most important, if not the most important topic that can be found on the Croatian Parliament's agenda. So it doesn't matter what this report looks like, or how this debate is going to take place, or what conclusions we're going to make afterwards. In the Croatian People's Party, we are aware that the defence systems and the Armed Forces in Europe are dominated by discussions on a different way of filling the Armed Forces since a strong process of demilitarisation is taking place in democratic states. In fact, European countries are no longer faced with a direct military threat, but with a number of other dangers that entails necessary structural, human resources, organisational and strategic changes in the national security system. Unfortunately, we have very, very little data on these elements in this report. I will not, unlike my predecessors, call on newspaper articles. I think it is an absolutely incorrect way to collect data on the situation in the Croatian Army. It's a very sensitive matter, and I think we need to do this work in a very different way. The report is formally complete, but there is a lack of important data. This lacks important information on how much funds have been invested to realise the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces. If it is known that in the previous years, the plan has been implemented with about 50% a year, and that in 2010, the year in half of that ten-year period then the question of the feasibility of the plan and the possible need for its revision is raised, so I would ask the minister that, in one of ours, from a later address to the Parliament and to touch the potential need to revise this long-term plan. There's no mention of many things in the report. This is about introducing new water units classic Helsinki, and it's not about the equipment of rocket cannons that started 10 years ago and that other colleagues and colleagues are not finished. Turns out those cannons don't exist at all. In the case of official apartments mentioned earlier as a burning question of standards, 99 apartments are said to have been moved, but there is no telling how many such apartments are really needed by our Armed Forces or members of the Armed Forces. With regard to the separation of persons according to the report, the biggest injunction in the separation of civil servants and subsistences is. Out of the planned thousands, only 372, and that's because of the lack of funds. It's as if it's forgotten that the cost of keeping in the Ministry of Defence system is more than twice the cost of decommissioning. It appears to be a bad business organisation, or the reasons for which the report has been completely abandoned. As far as gender equality is concerned, colleague Sobol talked about it, and I would shorten that part of the report. Furthermore, it is not good for you, Mr. Minister, to use some difficult words here in relation to the opinions and attitudes of individuals in the Parliament. Parliamentary democracy is such as to know who is in charge of whom, and I don't think we should use the expression politics regardless of whether or not we've even made a mistake in assessing a certain moment, but I don't think that's really good. What I would also like to praise here, and this dialogue referred to the report of my fellow Defense Council colleagues, I think that this committee is really doing very well, I think that colleagues are trying to get additional information at all times on the state of the armed forces and I think they should be commended for that. I am sorry that they are not yet scheduled to visit the headquarters of three main, our three branches of the armed forces, as well as visits to soldiers in Afghanistan. I think that would give us a series of additional data, so that our assessment clearly would be more objective and that we all strive and we have to strive. In addition to these concerns, I would ask the motionary to hear the answers to the following questions. Why is Croatia still in observation status at the multinational quadrilateral brigade that it entered back in 2002? Furthermore, why has the task force been established to assess and categorize military facilities if the process of re-use has been going on for 10 years? Furthermore, why is the process of succession of military assets going on for so long, and only in 2009 are preparations being made for negotiations on succession? Why is the Air Force in this report, and I believe we all agree that what with the military has nothing to do with it. Will the moments mentioned in the report run out of operational ability before we get new hunters? If that happens, Mr. Minister, will we then request air protection from a neighbouring country? Here are some very serious questions that we need to hear today, answers to them, so that they can make clear what to do in the future. Finally, if we had to evaluate this report, then we definitely have to say that what is far behind the report we received in 2005, which we all supported, because it was complete because it was objective, because it was without twisting the real situation in the military, and I think that at least in this highest representative body we have to work. Finally make a little joke. Is it by any chance that a government report like this, an incomplete report, was sent to us on April 1st, or might not have been an accident? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53394	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53395	Mr. Doric claimed, quoting that it is incorrect to bring courts on the basis of newspaper members. It is not incorrect, Mr. Doric, to read the newspaper, in fact, on the basis of some articles to present information that is not in the report. That can't be incorrect. It is incorrect to discuss this report without giving us information, for example. on the operational capacity of our air force, i.e. The fact that out of 12 planes, if I'm not mistaken, I'm flying only two combat moments, or the VIP helicopter won't have any presidents. Neither would I, I understand them. But I, on all this, and such a situation of the Croatian Army, don't even call the minister, nor our generals, because with 147 million kuna or 20 million euros, our equipment can't be any different down the line. And thank God you noticed that, and mentioned the canaders, who are fortunately new, and I want to believe that despite this rainy spring they will not need to be operational, but on this issue indeed the Croatian Army has done much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53396	In 10 and 57, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53397	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, your colleagues and colleagues. As usual, we from the Croatian Peasant Party club at the beginning of our debate first want to commend all members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia who are in Afghanistan, as well as members of the police armed forces, and civilian personnel who participate in other peacekeeping or humanitarian operations around the world. In addition, we would like to commend all other members of the armed forces of the police, fire and mountain rescue services, as well as members of other institutions of society or associations who, within their scope, are professionally or voluntarily concerned about the defence of security and protection of the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens. We believe that this report, which we are discussing as well as the one from previous years, is satisfactoryly covering some important problems, challenges and tasks that the Ministry of Defence is facing, and especially the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia with the management and management structure as a whole. However, we are not sure whether it includes in an objective way other parts, or elements of the defence system, as well as the position and relationship of the defence system with other parts of the national security system of the Republic of Croatia. Why do we think that? Because we live in a time when military forces are less likely to be threatened, but therefore there are largely non-war threats. In fact, the position of science is that the process of abolishing, i.e. abandoning a general military obligation, and the emergence of a wide spectrum of non-war threats means the need to develop other neglected defence components, primarily crisis planning and management in emergency situations and crises. We think things are getting too slow on that plan. Today's world is characterised by rapid changes in international relations, and new security challenges and risks and threats require new solutions both at national and international level. It is particularly difficult to determine the share of military and civilian components in the process. As far as the national security system of the Republic of Croatia is known, it is not only security services, that is, the Security Intelligence Agency or the Military Security Intelligence Agency or the Republic of Croatia's defence system that includes not only the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, or the military. The defence system also includes state authorities, local and regional self-government, ministries and state administrative organisations with legal persons from their work, whose functioning is important in the conditions of emergency or crisis, major natural disasters, accidents and disasters, as well as in the conditions of direct threat and war and the organisation for the protection and rescue of human and material goods. Also, citizens of the Republic of Croatia have duties in defence, such as military obligations, labour obligations, material obligations, civil protection obligations. We point out this because in the Republic of Croatia in the area of defence, security and security we have different individual elements of the system. We are afraid that there is still no real desire to build a total system in which each of the elements will be roughly equally developed and tied together. Therefore, we aim to point to the good side of the reports, as well as to open issues in order to resolve them effectively and more quickly. By giving a much greater emphasis on open issues that should be done. What do we find satisfying in this report? The defence reform process, especially in its military section, is far better than in any segment of the state administration, but these reforms may sometimes be slow about the process of modernising material resources, which we believe is an objective financial reason, i.e. a lack of financial resources. The defence ministry adopted a defence system management method in accordance with NATO's way of working in the countries through the annual guidelines for defence planning and developed legislation and sublaw. We don't know why legal changes were made just for the needs of a military component, not for the needs of other elements of the defence system. The Coast Guard's operations have been completed. Which is a big and very important job for the country's overall national security. With this in mind, we hope that this has earned better conditions for protecting the Adriatic. Co-operation with NATO-led operation in Afghanistan has increased. The priorities of the modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been identified. The Croatian economy is also involved in modernization. It's about equipment and training declared units for peace operations. Planically, it's a matter of detachment and the reception of a new staff. Issuing activities that are not closely linked to the management of defences and are being closed and relocated to military properties to something more useful. So what we think, here are a few open questions that we think can also be done or improved. We believe that the following report should provide more precise information and what is the situation at certain levels of the civil defence holder. For example. the central authorities of the state administration, the counties and other civil defence holders. We have a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, but we do not have a long-term development plan for the overall defence national system, i.e. the total national security system of the Republic of Croatia. In Chapter 9. The key developments in the future period have also been announced to work on a new strategic defence review, i.e. a kind of analysis and inventory of the defence system that should give direction to the development of the future defence system. We fear that this document will meet its purpose because it is a valid and announced strategic defence review, it is about the time when we have only a strategy of defence and military strategy, but we have not had a plan of defence of the Republic of Croatia, which includes a plan of use of the Armed Forces, a plan of protection and rescue, a plan of functioning of the economy and social activities, and when these documents are drawn up with management plans in emergency situations and crises and when some of these plans are brought into line, i.e. they are integrated with NATO and EU planning documents, and in practice we think that only then is the condition for the development of a new strategic defence review, and only then the defence strategy and the accompanying legislative and sublegal regulations with plans and operational procedures. Therefore, our proposal is quick to reconcile views and find solutions to the development of crisis planning and management in emergency situations and crises because this is an area of considerable lag behind the modern trends and conditions set before our country. Unsolved personnel problems in the part of the central authorities of the state administration, units of the regional self-government and legal persons whose functioning is important in the conditions of emergency situations and crises, major accidents and disasters, or war. A particular problem has been identified in connection with the involvement of the Armed Forces in the performance of tasks when required by the Armed Forces to assist civilian institutions, civil-military crisis planning. Because, in accordance with existing regulations, such a requirement can be obtained simultaneously by the Ministry of Defence from several institutions without the use of all the capabilities of competent civilian institutions, i.e. dedicated civil services. The defence-security protection function must be effective, it must achieve a fundamental objective, achieve an appropriate and maximum degree of security of citizens. It must rightly respond to modern dangers and dangers, eradicate them, prevent them, prevent their harmful actions. People and their communities must be trained, prepared, organised and done at a level that enables them to act effectively. Finally, the HSS club will support the 2009 Defence System preparedness Report and the overall state of the Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53398	Thank you. One notice. The session of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government will be held today at 13:30 in Josip Jelačić's hall, chairman of the Committee, Zvonimir Mršić. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues think the biggest problem at this time in the defence system is the budget of the Ministry of Defence, which I think is in line with the possibilities of the Republic of Croatia at this time if it is slightly smaller than those needs, especially the modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, in any crisis when costs are cut, it is usually up to the MORH and the MUP to cut costs because they are actually taking the least of the votes to the government, which at this point is causing the least public opposition. This is up to some level perhaps and acceptable until it comes to the situation that these institutions cannot perform their functions in a normal manner, I think it is still not the case, but I think that if they do, if the crisis comes to a point where these two ministries should still be spared. I must also note that, compared to the 2005 report, the 2006 report is also with slightly less "interesting and attractive" data. When I say interesting and attractive data, I think unfortunately of those data that show that something is wrong or that certain problems are present, either in the defense situation or in other areas. But I don't think that's much of a problem either. At this point, unlike then, the Croatian Parliament has a special committee dealing with defence issues, and all such possible situations can be discussed at a closed session of the Committee and then if there is a need for a plenary session, but I think such reports should be about the same level as this, just maybe a little more or less information that might interest the public more. In fact, quite often during the 1990s and early 2000s, the Croatian Army was the subject of the daily political crackdown of political parties and factors, it may have been right but I think it has been since 2002 until today it is no longer so involved in the day-to-day political debates, which is good and should be absolutely welcomed. In this sense, the Republic of Croatia today is a NATO member and therefore is not different from other countries. Such reports often mention certain things that have nothing to do with the Ministry of Defence and especially not with the willingness of the defence system. One of them is definitely military real estate. I think it's wrong to call military properties, they're former military properties that were once in office of either the Croatian Army or the Croatian Army, but they no longer have that purpose, they've been declared unspective, they're not the property of the Ministry of Defence as they say, but they're the property of the state, and they're not the rule of the Ministry of Defence, they're the management of the government, or the central property office. I think the defence minister is actually the wrong address to ask what's going to happen to the military with these former military properties. And I think that the public, as well as the representatives and the bodies of local self-government, should ask more questions to the government, or to the government institutions involved, in which way these properties will be put into operation. I don't think it's done enough, but I repeat, it's not a matter of the Department of Defense, it's more of an organization in general. What should also not be in the Ministry of Defence system, which is for the time being and is likely to remain so, and there is a good care of the Ministry of Defence, it is fire-fighting aircraft, that is, part of the Croatian Air Force which is engaged in the fire-fighting season, or canaders of course. During the fire season, transport helicopters and other types of transport aircraft of the Armed Forces were hired, but they are always thought most and most visible canadists, so it's actually the most talked about. I am also personally pleased that such reports are no longer accompanied by a tone that can be considered shooting and that in any case, it is not good to involve military and soldiers in such discussions. Political debate may be about whether Croatia is in Afghanistan or other places, but when politics makes a decision, the military will do the job best. Politically there may be places in the debate whether we should enable dog training for Iran or not, but also when politics makes a decision the military must execute and in all democratic countries it should be, and therefore, trust in the civil surveillance system of the military must be large in order for the military to be spared day-to-day political bickering. I won't be longer on this report, I'd like to ask the Minister two direct questions. One question is the Basko Field, or former Bashko Field military resort, which is now in the Adriatic Club system. So your statement was mentioned that you're thinking about going back maybe to the Ministry of Defense system, so I'd like to get a direct answer to the question, whether it's actual, whether it's going to happen and if something has happened. The second question is also about the south of Dalmatia. So, if it's determined, it's thinking about the location of the sea base south because we have these days by the media, so all the parties in the town of Ploče don't want it to be in the plates. And I don't know where that came from. Of course, Mr. Minister, I would like to conclude this debate when you discuss the budget. I hope that the following reports will be devoid of daily policies and that, of course, what I said on the Committee, you will more emphasize the first prize of the "St. Juraj" Club of the Croatian Navy at the Split Festival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53400	Thank you. Two replicas. First female representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53401	You mentioned the property that once belonged to the Department of Defense, which served the Ministry of Defense, which was made available to the government. This problem of governance of state property, especially this type of property, is indeed unsatisfactory especially in times of crisis, when such a single issue must be gained in particular on its weight and on a good government. In fact, the fact is that units of local self-government, that the state itself often needs for its various real estate jobs, or space, is a shame that the state spends a huge amount on rent, rents other people's premises, let's say that in 2004, the Ministry of Justice moved out of its own space, free space and released millions a month for rent. This property that is not put into office also costs the state extra. In the name of the communals, the currents, the water collapses later it is harder to restore it. One good example is this just when you were Deputy Minister Zeljke Antunović when a good part of these premises, these properties were put into office, I mention only this complex of Selska, long ago it should have been in office for the judiciary. Unfortunately, it's not until today. But here are the good examples, something's been going on for the last few years, but a little bit and a little bit. And this may be an opportunity to draw attention to the government in this debate that in times of crisis, it is the easiest thing for it to hit taxes on citizens and millions of us are falling apart.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53402	The answer to the line, Mr. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, when we talk about this property, I have now and in the debate mentioned that only the Ministry of Defence is not the address to which criticism and praise for such matters should be addressed, that it is the Government. And that the government deserved a lot of criticism because it wasn't the property the military left behind and declared unspective in some way put into office. If you noticed I wanted the minister to vote for a larger military budget in his debate, however, I disagree with those who think that this military budget should be increased from the revenue that would be received from placing into office the sales and rental of those former military properties, because it is not fair to the military or other portfolios. So the military is not a manager's institution to fight for its budget on the market. And secondly, the state is not in any way an institution that rewards the success of selling former assets in a way that now says because we sold the property and earned it, now the military is our priority, and health, education and something else is not. Therefore, as regards state assets, it should function in a way that the assets are best used, and as far as the budget is concerned, the state should be where it is considered important to invest money and if the military needs the military priority, if something else needs to be given elsewhere. That's why politics is used, which is why the parties are competing and that's why governments change or don't change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53404	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53405	A respected colleague spoke about the role of policy in the defence system. There are both material technical things that are important and that politics decides where Croatian soldiers will go, etc. However, he forgot one thing that is particularly important, that politics must create conditions for the future of the Croatian Army, and these are primarily back to the known problem now in Croatia, that 4 cities known for their history among the first Djakovo, Sinj, Makarska, Imotski, Supetar and 5 people remain without a birthplace. And I don't see the possibility that anyone will defend us if they are not born Croats, or Croatian citizens. Then we don't care if we're in a NATO alliance or if we're in some other alliance, if no one can defend us better, and it's shown in the Homeland War than ourselves. And regarding the fact that I haven't been able to sign up in the last hour, one thing you can't blame me for is the direct question of the Secretary of Defense. What about the House of the Croatian Army in Đakov, which is one through one property of the city of Đakov where the fence collapsed, where the ministry spokesman promised to solve the problem in 7 days? The fence is directly ahead of primary school, but to this day there is no one there anymore. You gave it to Plekler d.o.o., so it is no longer necessary to defend the Republic of Croatia, and it is owned by the city of Djakova. So I'd like to ask you, since it's inoperable to take it back to the property of the city as it is in the garter shop in Djakova. So here are two problems and the birthplace and the Croatian Army's House.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53406	And a wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53407	And the wall that the Ministry of Defence needed to solve, because we cannot enter a property that is currently owned by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. I'm a legalist, Mr. Vice President. I respect Croatian laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53408	Okay. And you're particularly jealous of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53409	If you claim that the Croatian Army will be without Croats more effective then that's another thing. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53410	No, no. I'm not just saying anything. ... Let's not. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. We don't have a reply to the replica, he pulled it. You two follow. ... How come he didn't pull the gentleman? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I've come forward for is a debate to point out in a few more sentences the problem and importance of women's participation and issues relating to what it involves under some kind of military question, defense issues, and the like. Perhaps if I could come from this Parliament and visit all of us colleagues and colleagues that we are not seated in the Committee on the National Security of the Croatian Parliament by any of our fellow MPs, therefore a purely male committee. And on the Defense Committee, we have two colleagues. When we add up six more outside members, it comes down to about 10% on the Defence Committee. I'm aware that there are some things I can't do overnight, but I would really like to warn you that it's already a long-standing practice when it comes to exactly the Committee on National Security. On the Committee on Gender Equality, we've already discussed I think three or four times in a row about the defence system's preparedness report. I'm going to do it again to see progress in the report itself when it comes to showing sex data. We remember two years ago there wasn't a single gender-class piece of information. However, what I think should be extended to the entire report in that chapter on gender equality or within that chapter or the issue of gender policy within the Ministry of Defence or the Armed Forces. Because the question of the participation of women within the system is not only about how many women there are, but also about how and how and how and only the Ministry of Defence or the Armed Forces, which are the efforts that are being done and what else can be done, and that the number of women in particular in the armed forces, or among the active military personnel, would be much greater than today. Today, we have about 9.5% of women who are active military personnel. A few years ago, in 2006, that number was somewhere around 8.3%. The Development Strategy has shown that by 2015 the number of women as active military personnel should be 10%. So, the goal will certainly be achieved, I suppose before 2015, but it seems to me that with this, I would say, a small task that was actually set to go from 8.3 to practically 10 years that number only rises to 10%. It seems to me that out of all of this arises both certain awareness and within the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Government or the Armed Forces how difficult it is and how difficult it is to actually work when it comes to involving women in the defence system, especially when it comes to military composition. I also want to say here today, when we talk about women's participation and when we talk about their ability to be in positions where key decisions are made for this country, then I have to remind myself that in the leadership positions within the Ministry of Defence, I'm not talking about the Armed Forces now, as far as I know, we don't have any women among the leading. We have the secretary of state, we have the secretary of state, I don't think we have any secretary of state, and I don't know if we have maybe one director of the administration if I'm not mistaken, and I think it's for financial and material affairs. But also when you look at the defence ministry's management system compared to over 50% of the women who are employed within the Ministry of Defense, then you can see that disproportionately. Personally, I think that in Croatia as well as in other countries, it does not only apply to Croatia, it refers to all the countries that are part of NATO where we are even better than NATO, so I would say, there is no resistance but there is resistance, but I would say that there is a major obstacle to understanding, as it is the job of men, and what it is is that women do. We still live in societies where it's a matter of defence, military issues, security issues are nevertheless understood to be men. In the past few years several round tables have been organised in Croatia on the subject of women participation, among other things, in the system of the Ministry of Defence, or the Armed Forces, and you know, somewhere at first glance it seems like there should be no problem. All doors are open, there are equal conditions for all, and when women come into that system, there is also a question of the possibility of their progress. Let's say when we talk about rank, the share of women in senior officers' status is about 10%. Croatia still doesn't have any women with the rank of generals, only four brigades, about 30 colonels. Some 11% are collected in the officers and less than 5% in the soldiers. It would be unfair, of course, not to mention one encouraging fact, which is that a more favourable situation I hope in the future of hints and training for future members of the active composition in the cadet programme. In it, as far as I have information, the last generation of students reaches almost 30%, so it's to believe and hopefully by that year 2015 we'll be able to overcome that number of 10%. I would like the problem of equal participation of women and men and within the Ministry of Defence and within the Armed Forces and in general in the security systems of Croatia to be discussed much more often than it has been so far. I will also take this opportunity to ask the Ministry to say a lot more in future reports, that through the thematic wholeness of gender talks and what the Committee on Gender Equality is doing on the Human Resources Council, which is finally established. Since 2002, the law said it should be established, and it was formed as far as I know by the end of 2008. And secondly, let me also remind you that the Ministry of Defence is one of the holders of the coordination of the application of Resolution 13/25. I may not have accurately detected it, but Resolution 13/25 kind of marks the 10th anniversary of adoption. Resolution 13/25 of the United Nations speaks of the participation, participation of women in security and defence systems, the inclusion of women in all peace processes, in the negotiation processes etc., etc. Meanwhile, a new resolution has also been adopted that obliges the governments of the Member States to work on applying the resolution, thus making national plans for action and implementation of Resolution 13/25. I believe that Croatia will also do so, perhaps it has already done so, but I think it should be formed if I do not cheat on a working group that would work on making such a national plan, so I believe that the next report will be enriched in some way, complemented by the activity of the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53412	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It should be said that it is indeed a quality report. We are getting better and more quality reports year by year from the Ministry of Defence, and I think that today we can really discuss what happened in a metric way over the past period. It should be said that immediately after winning the Homeland War, the reconstruction of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia from the wartime in the peacetime structure begins. It was then that the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces was adopted from 2006 to 2015. At that time, reforms in human resources management began, and this report shows that in 2009, the target number of military personnel in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia was almost reached in 2009. So what's the number? It's about the size of an armed forces of 16000 military personnel and 1600 civil servants and tenants. On December 31st 2009, there is a number of conditions somewhere within these 600 and 200 military borders, and 2000 civil servants and tenants. Efforts to join the euro of Atlantic integration have launched complex processes to adapt the NATO Armed Forces to standards resulting in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO on 1 April 2009. After admission to full NATO membership, the process of moving from one concept of individual defence towards collective defence has been completed in line with this observed period. The activities of structuring and dimensionaling the Armed Forces have been successfully implemented, activities aimed at full integration into NATO's structure and process of the NATO Pact. This report presents in a core way activities from which it is visible how the defence system works, what capabilities it develops and how it fulfils its social role, and how it has the resources entrusted to it. In 2009, it was marked by continuing to participate successfully in international peace operations and missions, and by participating in the training and exercises of members of our Armed Forces with members of the Armed Forces of the member states of the alliance. As part of the implementation of the second mission of participation in crisis response operations abroad, members of the Armed Forces actively participated in 12 international NATO peacekeeping missions led by ISAF operations in Afghanistan, KFOR, two operations in Kosovo, and in Chad and the Central African Republic. Thus, the Republic of Croatia increased its international reputation by showing international solidarity. Defence policy is developed and implemented within the framework of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the Defence Strategy. The priority in defence reform and defence management in 2009 was to plan operational capabilities and improve management processes. The emphasis was on the objectives of equipment and training for NATO-led operations, foreign language learning, and participation of members of the Armed Forces in multinational command. Armed forces in 2009 met their basic tasks to protect the country's territorial sovereignty and integrity under recession, rationalisation and austerity conditions, and the reduction of defence ministry funds made progress in transforming the Armed Forces towards building and capacity and preparedness to achieve defence tasks. Armed forces assisted civil institutions in the country by participating in air transport of life-threatening persons, search, rescue in mountain-mounted and difficult access areas. Firefighters intervened in fires with over 10,000 flights. The readiness of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces shows that the Republic of Croatia has and develops a system suitable for the needs, levels of threats and challenges it faces. The report shows that the defence system adapts to the circumstances of the reduction of the defence budget for retaining functionality and the development of the capabilities of maximum rationalisation and internal redistribution and reserves. The report also shows that the Armed Forces have successfully adapted to the obligations and tasks arising from NATO membership with adjustments that impose the day-to-day functioning of the system under the circumstances of society. So, you should say that the report is correct and exhaustive and I will give him my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53414	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53415	Well, I would certainly like to supplement my colleague here with something that I feel is equally important for the armed forces' combat preparedness, which is unused properties owned by the Republic of Croatia that are still in the management of the MORH. So, fortunately, we still have a lot of military facilities that have been declared inoperable objects, which, unfortunately, are not used in any way at this time. At this point, they are only doing financial damage to the MORH because they must be kept safe. But they do harm if in the broadest sense we look at combat preparedness or the defence capacity of a country much greater because these are properties that could certainly be used for other purposes – tourism, scientific, educational or agricultural. Here I am going to tell you the example of the city where I come from, and that's Koprivnica. The army left the military in Koprivnica two, more than two years ago. There's a place where the city would like to become a university. We made a request to the MORH. There are also 40 ha of high quality agricultural land that has not been isolated for two years. So it's rooted and there's nothing produced on it. Moreh did what he needed to do. He gave the property to the Central Office of the State Administration for the management of the facilities, the procedure was launched. There is a general will to assign this property to the city for use or for property. However, the procedure has been going on for more than two years. And we two years if we could plant a carrot there, so we should not have introduced it into the amount in which it could be produced, let alone talk about, for example, that 20 jobs can be opened at present in a workshop that exists, or that we could have established one of the higher educational institutions that would significantly contribute to the development of Croatia, thus also the defence capacity of Croatia. So I'd appeal here there's a will at the Morh and they'd spend what's been declared unspective. But I am afraid that after that there is one quite great inert to say in the administrative channel that these decisions are implemented and that we really put this into function of the development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53416	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53417	Sure, but it should be said that this is exactly what the Department of Defense has done a long time ago, so it's done an entire analysis of the facilities in its possession, that it's given a series of suggestions. So I agree with you that they should come into office as soon as possible, but many are already in office, but it would not be good to rush, so that some, let's, remember those resorts in Koprivnica and so, that it ends in some way in which all together would not be well, is it? In that sense, I'm not into speed, but otherwise I agree with you that it should be activated as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53418	Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is another new report on the preparedness of the defence system and the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state of the armed forces. Indeed, in this exhaustive report, which the additional representative of the proposings has presented here, and also from the debate of the club representatives, it is quite a lot said about this subject, and would not repeat from some mere form, to fill my 10 parliamentary minutes because I have applied for this debate, but I will be free to comment on some of the things that have been said about this report, because it is my right of representation, so that I do not abuse that time of correcting incorrect allegations, or replicas. Finance is very often mentioned here, and I believe that there would be no happier minister or happier chief of staff that the state whose armed forces are objectively can give more to the system. However, as it has already been pointed out many times and what we must be aware of, armed forces and armies must share the fate of the entire society, so we must be aware that both the opportunity and opportunity of recession, the difficult economic business in which Croatia is currently, not only Croatia, but the whole world lives, of course they must reflect both on the area of defence and on the area of the defence system. And it is good that parliamentary representatives are discussing the problem of reduced funding, the reduced defence budget. However, as every year, we will come to an early Christmas time, the winter time when the new budget debates will be brought again in this House and when we will again not know which times we will witness that from the mouth of those who are discussing the reduction of the financial budget, amendments are coming in and their proposals are aimed at reducing the MORH and in the positions of modernisation, equipment, education and professional training. So now I realize that I'm going to cause a replica, to this my exposure, I'm asking if then the real debate today on finance really is the desire that this system of defense and the system of defence, the defence system really rises to a higher level, or is it then a desire to like the citizens of our electoral unit when we suggest that the MORH be removed, removed from these positions and rerouted to some other functions. We also need to be aware when we talk and cry, and we are worried about the fate of the Croatian soldier on the mission, when we talk about the lack of equipment, and I assure you here, because I witnessed it twice in Afghanistan and I can tell you the Croatian soldier on the mission has the highest quality equipment, among the world's most qualified armies are Croatian soldiers on missions outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. The question has been raised whether Croatia's entry into NATO, which I certainly re-evaluate by a very good decision, is the blame for the autonomy of the Republic of Croatia, in my opinion absolutely not, because Croatia as a full-fledged NATO member has the opportunity to discuss and have the opportunity to decide what functions of Croatian soldiers, members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, when they operate in international missions, which will do so, if we keep the model that the Croatian soldier will not assume the performance of those functions for which he is not qualified, that he will not take over or that someone else will not assume the obligation to perform those functions for which the Croatian soldier is not sufficiently equipped, then, of course, the possibility of any extraordinary, or unwanted events is reduced. Although we must be aware that there is absolutely no way to rule them out at these unwanted events, because there is no such military equipment that gives absolute security. A respected parliamentary representative said a few minutes ago that Croatian equipment was not operational, or that some further conclusion could be said that he wanted to say that the Croatian Army is not operational. I am here as parliamentary representative asking a question, which will be given by the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, entrusted to it by the measuring institutions of the Republic of Croatia during the observed period, and some previous periods have not been carried out? Someone here says the Croatian Army is asked to, and the Croatian Army said we can't meet it. Therefore, everything that the measuring institutions have set up, the bodies of the Republic of Croatia as a task of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, has been completed, I have no information and have no knowledge that the Croatian military would say that we cannot, we are not qualified for this, and that, of course, they were put in place before that, and that they are equipped, trained and that after that process and equipment and training, the armed force of the Republic of Croatia has said that we cannot do so. Unfortunately, I will say it here, because we are ahead of the new fire-fighting season, so sometimes even the burden of these additional functions, which are these non-wartime, non-military functions of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, is not to turn the armed forces to some side role, because, in the field of civil defence, these are the tasks that armed forces should do, but the armed forces here only provide support and should not be left behind, leaving that second segment of which the Greeks, in the area of civil defence, spoke wider on behalf of the HSS Club, and others must be prepared, because the armed forces are only one segment. At the end of my presentation here, I will only warn of one element that seems disturbing to me. I know it can't be done much in a short time, I know it's related to financial resources, I'm aware that the time of creation of civilian institutions that will work, and that's on page 71 of this report, the provision of extra weapons, we've had in neighbouring countries several more unfortunate events, I warn these figures in relation to the written off, means the murderous inspective.../The speaker away from the microphone./... the means of a thousand 521 tonnes, a little more elaborate, more destroyed which, of course, will not welcome these green associations, and here, as one suggestion of fellow minister, Mr. Vukelic, that this issue is a little bit more worked out in accordance with the possibilities, because of course, an unfortunate event that can't be ruled out absolutely possible to create major consequences. I thank you, and as a representative, I will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53420	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53421	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It could be a correction to an incorrect quote, but then Mr. Roncevic couldn't answer, and I want him to answer. You said to point out any task that the Armed Forces didn't carry out. I don't know about that task, except for one. Because the Constitution states that democratic oversight of the work of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is being carried out by the Croatian Parliament. Now this Armed Forces, it's in a broader sense. Then there's the Department of Defense. I'm saying we haven't done democratic surveillance of the Afghanistan incident, so to speak. The incident. Here, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53422	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53423	Well, I'd be free to say maybe we haven't done it yet. Maybe we haven't done it yet if we haven't done it. What you have now opened in this topic of replica, if you wanted to warn that Croatian generals go to the President of the Republic of Croatia in violation of Article 100. The defense law, without knowing about it, not knowing about the content of the talks, not knowing about the subject of the conversation, is more of a problem for me than what happened in Afghanistan. A colleague, or Minister Vukelic here, I listened carefully to his presentation, not a single word said that he refused to give a report to you as chairman of the board and I believe he would do so. For me, this issue that at least appeared in the media, and the law is very clear, the president of the Republic as commander-in-chief in the peace of command of the Armed Forces through the defence minister. Maybe I missed something? It may have happened some night that someone didn't inform me, but I don't remember anyone declaring war in Croatia and that in Croatia someone has declared the state of war danger, and it is happening. For me, this is a bigger problem, and that is then that civilian surveillance where you, as chairman of the board, should do more work than you should on this issue the lower-ranked officers in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53424	Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here I would also join my colleagues before and I would say that this report is one of the best reports so far, that it is extensive, comprehensive, and that it gives us a basis for a thorough and metric debate that is now taking place under that report here in Parliament. Namely, I would not repeat the quotes of my predecessors and discussions, but I would say that maybe 3 of the most important things since last year from this report is visible, which is that in 01.04.2009, Croatia joined the NATO Pact, the second that our Armed Forces participate equally in all peacekeeping missions, and this is how this report is presented here, and what the third one might be the most talked about today, which is that, based on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 30 July 2009, the creation of a list and the categorisation of non-spective military properties and the finding of a way to proceed with any non-spective real estate. It says here that currently in the record of 216 properties for which an elaborate was produced and delivered to the Central State Office for the Management of State Property. I think it's an important topic, and it's a good thing that this has been a little bit better in mind, as my predecessors have said, that these properties are not only in some way failing but they are also doing some extra damage to the wider community. Here's also on the trail of this and I'm using the opportunity here now, given that there is a Mr. Minister present, today is just one task force of the Ministry of Defence visiting the Municipality of Gornji Kneginec on the Varazdin Bank, which is also the military warehouse of the Varazdin Bank which, as far as I'm aware, belongs to that category of non-perspective property although it is still in use and I think the municipality of Gornji Kneginec is able to take over that property from the moment the conditions are obtained. Mr. Minister, I am asking you on behalf of your municipality to support us in this. The municipality has plans, we have ideas. Here is a few years ago from the Government of the Republic of Croatia we got a number of squares of land, today it is one of the best zones in Croatia. 800 people employed, and trust me if the municipality comes, and I believe it will come to the property of this property, we will also know how and in what way to bring the best purpose. I think that these are very important moments and that it can contribute significantly to the development of one area, and since we have a lot of these properties, and believe me, they are not only interesting for those who are certainly more interesting in the coastal zone, but these in the continent can also play a major role in economic activities and these smaller municipalities, etc. Since the Crescent headquarters of the Municipality of Gornji Priginec, which I was then headed in '91. He played a big role in winning that warehouse, believe me after that and the city of Varazdin. And we know after what a positive effect it was on the battlefields throughout Croatia, here I am thanking you in advance on behalf of everyone in this area and trust me that we will know well with this master. I say once again that this report is extremely good because the situation and the situation in the Armed Forces is certainly much better than any of us would like to show here. And I think we're on the best track for Croatia to have one of the most modern Armed Forces within the NATO Pact. Here, I'll support that report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53426	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53427	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have a comprehensive and versatile report on the readiness of the Republic of Croatia's defence system in the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Republic of Croatia, which shows in all segments what is the situation, in all details, described on 125 pages precisely in the past period which has been observed and which is described in this report. Surely we can say that the defence system through its components is successfully integrated and contributes to the NATO system through the development of planned capabilities and the achievement of the objectives of our forces. In addition to co-operation with NATO member states, intensive co-operation with countries in the region is being achieved, making a significant contribution to the overall foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, the transition, trust and security processes in the region. In 2009, the Report of Equipment and Modernization continued to examine domestic... rifles that certainly talk about investing in progress and compatibility with the NATO system which makes Croatia's future with its assault rifle as well as its own gun. Also, we can certainly boast that Đura Djakovic produces huge vehicles that are certainly 126 which will be produced within the Armed Forces will certainly contribute to the economic progress of the Republic of Croatia. As is the assault rifle, such as the Croatian gun and the Croatian helmet, such as the Croatian suits that are made for sure of the equipment of our forces in all peacekeeping missions shows through this Report, but also through all the assessments that NATO's top officials speak in short word that Croatian soldiers in peace missions, especially in Afghanistan, do good work certainly says that we have brought the Armed Forces and their readiness to one of the highest levels, and therefore we can say that through this report clearly unequivocally we can see everything that is important in the development of the Armed Forces but also in their capabilities given the budgetary resources. We certainly believe that they are not enough, but we can also estimate that it is hypocritical today to talk about the lack of these same funds precisely from those representatives who, in their amendments on the state budget, wanted to bang at the very moment when it comes to the development of the Armed Forces, their equipment and their incompatibility with the NATO forces at which we have entered. Today they're talking about how insufficient means like IDS are. The gentleman who spoke about it should probably be the General of the Croatian Army, so he would think differently about it, probably have such inspiration or perhaps demand, but saying today that in the amendments we said that we should cut into the intelligence security community, in the intelligence agency in the Croatian Army on all segments and at all times, obviously development, it is certainly for me today to be hypocritical and commended that by redistributing the funds visible from this report, we supported everything needed in further development, progress, reduced what is not necessary and necessary, and we believe today, given the threat of evaluation and endangering the Republic of Croatia, that the Armed Forces are sufficiently ready and equipped to carry out their task of defence of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I certainly want to say something about democratic surveillance, the democratic oversight carried out by the Croatian Parliament through the Defence Committee has certainly received a report, but I would call it illegal. The report on the incident in Afghanistan for me has illegally arrived at the Croatian Parliament and it is bypassing the Ministry of Defence which is not even familiar at these moments, the chairman of the Defence Committee should have returned it to the legal way or through legal institutions, as prescribed in the Law on Armed Forces, which is a fundamental document which brings Armed Forces and Water and Handlings and which respect it. I can therefore say that we are as members of the Committee to know the Report and the incident thoroughly as it happened, but I cannot say that it has arrived at the Croatian Parliament as a civil oversight legally, but illegally and on this committee I have sought sanctions for the Chief of Staff who has dared to bypass the Ministry of Defence and refer it to the Croatian Parliament without the knowledge of the Ministry. This is what cannot happen, this is what must not happen, and therefore I want to say that further personnel changes are necessary in the defence system itself to ensure that adequate, high-quality professionals who have reached out to communicate in at least one or two languages, who have graduated from the highest schools, either through education cadet or through an army of universities or through our colleges, certainly stopped at... countries and through the Armed Forces, and thus continued to be a feather in the Armed Forces of Europe and the world that certainly honorably and honestly defends Croatia's colors. So much and thank you very much, I commend your Report which is comprehensive and which speaks of all segments of the development of progress in the Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53428	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I ask clubs or presidents and vice presidents of the clubs to try to make the quorum a quorum to expand the agenda, to adopt that, and then we would vote it out and proceed with the session. The defence minister, Mr Branko Vukelic, concluded on this agenda. Preferably call immediately if possible. Please be careful, there's a correction? I didn't see any excuses. Minister, here's a correction to Mr. Arsen Bauk's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53429	Mr. President, I'd like to correct Mr. Djakic's incorrect quote when he was talking about the level of the budget. So, as far as the budget is concerned, according to the long-term development plan, the current budget for 2010 is therefore below what the long-term development plan predicted, we cannot say with certainty that it is in line with those in the way you said. Also, Mr. President, let me take the opportunity to report on the incorrect allegations, Mr. Djakic said that we were discussing an illegal report sent by the Chief of Staff, so I ask you, in cooperation with the chairman of the Defence Committee, to see if it is illegal because if the representative accuses the Chief of Staff that something was illegally made towards the Croatian Parliament, it is a slightly more difficult accusation than what Mr. Djakic thinks he has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53430	Here's the board president, so he'll see it all. Defence Minister Branko Vukelic concluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53431	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To finish the story, I'd look at it as optimistic as I'm looking at it, so if some of them for the budget this year were giving amendments to cut down to the Ministry of Defence, I believe they've seen it through and today they're honestly saying that they won't do it anymore and then we end it, because the budget really isn't insufficient, but it's at the border where further reduction would really bring the process into question. There were some speakers here, the truth of the rarest ones who mentioned it or said it was a question of whether exactly, is it true, is something not being covered up, that it was incomplete. Well, I really want to throw it away. This report does not cover anything, nor is it incomplete, it is very extensive. It is clear that there is much more and details about which more books could be written, but I think that for the level needed for this debate it is a full and complete report. And I thank all those who praised this report and found in it what is very important and most important, and that is information about the state of the Armed Forces, that is the state of defence preparations. And I take these praises, but I pass them on, and I will pass them on to those who deserve these praises, and these are the members and members of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defense. Because their work last year is in this report. The performance of their tasks is in this report. Not the work of the minister and those who wrote this report, but indeed thousands and thousands of our hardworking men. And for this reason, I would really like to reject again those claims made by some parliamentary representatives today who have spoken about how, due to the reduced financial resources of the Armed Forces, I would almost say in disarray, that they are not operational, that they do not have the necessary funds. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53432	It doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure that this is forbidden.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53433	Indeed, when we read in the paper the other day, an extraordinary venture by our pilot who saved an unhappy mountaineer by helicopter, we assume that this pilot was driving something without flying in and saving it. So we have the means, so we really have the means. Clearly, because of the financial situation, modernization doesn't go as fast as we wanted, as we planned. That's right. It'll go slower, because we don't have that much money. But our Armed Forces have resources, quality resources, our mission members, and that's true they're really well equipped, most modernly equipped, they're not lagging behind any of the armies of the world that are on that mission, so neither Americans nor anyone else. That's true. It is my belief that it will testify on the ground itself and the Defence Committee when visiting Afghanistan. But there is no need to go to Afghanistan to see the equipment, so in Croatia there is training of our soldiers and there is also equipment in Croatia with which they go and training to carry out these missions. Indeed, congratulations, above all, to those members and members of the Armed Forces who are on missions and who are at home and doing their duties, but we should also say that we are trying to keep these equipment quality maintained and to obtain the highest quality and best needed to carry out their tasks. About Iraq, I'd pray we'd only really say the naked fact and the truth. That it was a humanitarian act of the Croatian government that trained and donated six officers and six dogs to detect explosives. So I hope you believe it's a good deed, so you'll be saving someone's lives if explosives are discovered and we donated training to six Iraqi police officers and donated six dogs looking for explosives. I think that's a good thing. When it comes to strategies, there have been questions here about strategies which, as well as the National Security Strategy. So, it should also be said about the strategic defence review, about the long-term plan and the development of the Armed Forces. These are all the strategic documents that many of the changes that have taken place in Croatia need to be amended or adopted. And it should be said that the new National Security Strategy has been created and that it is waiting for its procedure which I believe will soon be launched and public debates and everything, and that after the adoption of that strategy or the National Security Strategy we are just going to go then there is a strategic review of the defence, the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, etc. Therefore, all these strategic documents in this year and I believe in next year should be brought and discussed clearly and adopted here in the Croatian Parliament. It has also been said here and it has been appealed to by some Defence Committee to visit these branches. Well, I can say that's settled, I think Mr. Shmrem made that clear and said it. There was supposed to be a visit to the Air Force Command yesterday. It was delayed due to the duties of parliamentary deputies. So the exact dates of the tour of all three branches are defined. And it's good to simply get acquainted on the ground with the situation and can talk to the commanders and members of these branches directly and without intermediaries. And through this way and through visits to the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces last year from the Defence Committee, management since when this Defence Committee has been there is more democratic surveillance than ever over the Armed Forces and the defense system. Bigger than ever. Maybe it doesn't go at that speed to make some visits, I believe we know how to plan for security and financial reasons further travel. But then it was never that kind of surveillance. Therefore, it cannot be said that democratic surveillance has not been carried out, that it has not been done for example. This incident. It's true, and I also said the material, the report that was delivered that was raw, so incomplete, originally. And we also need to know democracy is a procedure, we need to complete the procedure from all the strict and other procedures in order to get a full report to the Defence Committee, and in doing so, the Defence Committee has an oral report, and it can get all the information it wants whenever it wants, and I want to say it loudly and clearly that it would not question whether democratic oversight of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence is possible at all because it is bigger than ever, and I think that's good. When we talk about fire-fighting and why it's in the report. So in the report, we're talking about the overall state of the Armed Forces. One of the tasks is fire protection. It should be mentioned, too, because we are one of the few countries in this area that has such power, which participates in the fire-fighting season up to 20 aircraft of Croatian Air Force. We have six canadians, six R tractors, fire-extinguishing helicopters, we have extraordinary forces, and the Armed Forces are very successful, and they need to be congratulated, because everything they do every year is for every card, and I think it's very helpful that these fire damages are less than they would be if we didn't have that kind of power. When we talk about flying a helicopter, it's probably a VIP helicopter that's equipped and not used. But you forget, so last year the leadership of the state flew helicopters to Vukovar, so this year, what's the problem? We've got helicopters that we got from... Debts that are capable, that fly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we have the means enough for everything we need. Paška polje, the question is the future of the Pag Field and whether the defence system is returning. Yes, the Defence Council has supported my proposal to return the Paška Field to either the Ministry of Defence system, or the Platter company, but in any case to be intended for the board of our members of the Armed Forces, above all those returning from the mission, but all others. It's an object that I believe can also satisfy the needs of the Department of Defense or the Armed Forces. The problem is because it is a Paška field in the core capital of the Adriatic Club and the company of others and should conduct procedures that are not simple, but in any case this project remains and I think it is extremely important and important for our members of the Armed Forces. That's when it comes to the South Sea Base and the story of the plates, then it should be said that Ploche as a base of the South mentioned someone from Korčula who didn't want there to be a Marine Base South, and no decision was made there either. We are simply looking for a location that would be the most favourable, which would also be accepted by the local population, that we would not go to anyone to disrupt their plans for tourism development, any reason, and on the other hand, if we were to find a space that is already military space, to reduce costs, and the construction of the South Maritime Base will also be conditioned by financial opportunities. Therefore, so far we are in a clean exploration of possible spaces and localities and there is no speech and there is a need for a clear message to the citizens of Ploč, no one has discussed that it would be in Ploča, even technically not responding, this location is not responsible for those tasks that should be and why we need the Marine Base South. So it's about property, big property that's not the property of the Ministry of Defence and you said it's true, it's the property of the state of Croatia run by the Ministry of Defence. The government has done so far, and that should be said here, it has been mentioned and said that the government does not care about these properties, etc. So remember how many of these military properties have gone to entrepreneurship zones where many companies work today. I was the Minister of Economy, so I led and implemented the project very successfully. And in many cities, the counties have surfaced in the space of former military entrepreneurship zones. A lot of schools have come up in these places. Clearly, there is still a lot of this property, it is clear that it is necessary to speed up the processes to bring this property to its end, but I am absolutely representing one position that I think, in this situation today, economically, I must represent as defence minister, which is that the possible sale of such properties is used precisely to finance projects to equip the immuneisation of the Armed Forces. Because it's a new source of budget-free resources that could solve our problems of speed, dynamics and continuing the equipment of the armed forces' immunization. When it comes to the use of this property, it should also say what the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces will do this year and what the government has supported, which is that the Ministry of Defence is moving from its current position to the former military "Croatia", that there will also be the Chief Staff of the Ministry of Defence, that the move is planned to take place somewhere in the 8th or 9th month, that now the Ministry of Defence is coming to the Ministry of Regional Development, the forest water economy, and this will reduce the rent that the ministry pays around 20 million a year. So, the government is really thinking about how to save money budgetally, how to rationalise all these spaces that are, but the fact is that space has a lot and that we all need to invest a lot more power together to bring this space of former military real estate to a purpose, but to clearly save money from a budget that is very important and important for the realisation of many programs and projects, so also to realize projects in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. Thank you again for your constructive remarks, suggestions, suggestions. We will try to make the next report even more quality next year, even better, and I hope your support also when a budget is passed for all those projects and programmes that are important to be through the budget and support and that it can be continued through the implementation of extremely important programmes for the immunisation of the Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53434	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First it's Mr. Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53435	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. President, that I can't replicate because the Rules of Procedure won't allow it, so I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations. So, Mr. Minister said the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament was carrying out democratic surveillance over the work of the Armed Forces when he visited the Chief Staff and the Ministry of Defence. Look, that's how much I understand in a civilized world getting to know the state of things. We've come as a committee to see how things are at the Ministry and the Chief Staff and what our situation is in the Armed Forces. And as far as democratic surveillance is concerned, democratic surveillance is something that is done when it is necessary, when it is concluded that something is wrong, something is not working, and that is what I am correcting Mr. Minister and I continue to argue that we have not in this particular case carried out democratic surveillance because we were not allowed to do so. And as for the last sentence of Mr. Minister, I completely agree, which is why I said that the SDP would vote for this report and that we would... But we have to fix things, and that's the thing, and that the report, not just the report, but that the future report looks as good and quality as possible, that we are as informed as possible so that we can make quality decisions. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53436	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53437	Well, since I can't correct an incorrect assumption, not because I don't have anything to fix, I just think that Mr... Wait a minute. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There's a President of the Parliament here who needs to train you a little bit on how to treat the Rules of Procedure. ... I only think Mr. Minister forgot to answer the question of the Croatian Army House in Djakov. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And I also think that today in Croatia we should not be sharing which political parties we are from, and that should be clear to you because you will lose the elections very quickly. Very soon. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53438	The issue of losing the election does not fall under an incorrect assumption. We have another correction from Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53439	Thank you, Mr. President. I would only correct that part of the minister's allegations when he was talking about possible assets that would be obtained from the sale or re-use of military properties. So he pointed out that it should go to the military budget. That allegation is incorrect after all. So I think it's the money of the Croatian state and that it should be deployed by the government and the Parliament's decision where it's most important, so if it's the military, then it's the military, if it's not health, education or something else. And vice versa, if nothing is obtained from military property, and it is necessary for the military, then the army should be given regardless. So, I don't think the military is in that sense a manager's institution and that it shouldn't be a criterion for the level of the military budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53440	The sixth annual report on the preparedness of the defence system of the implementation of the human resources policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, with a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Parliamentary Labour Authorities, I am voting the conclusion: The Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy, and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 is accepted with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report was accepted by the majority of 94 votes in favour, and five abstentions nothing against it. We move to - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has proposed this decision on the basis of Article 18. Law on energy regulation. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Natasa Vujec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53442	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives. The energy regulation law found that the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency appointed and resolved the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the abovementioned Government of the Republic of Croatia, the basis of Article 18(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: The law on energy regulation proposes that the Croatian Parliament be resolved by the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is an independent and non-profit public institution, and its main task is to regulate energy activities in the Republic of Croatia by applying the principle of visibility, objectivity and impartiality. As such HERA is an important segment in the process of determining energy prices in the Republic of Croatia. The opinions issued by HERA in the energy price setting and price regulation process can have a significant impact on the stability of the energy market. And without that opinion, it's impossible to change the price of energy. The responsible and professional conduct of the HERA Defence Council, when determining the granting, publication and communication of those opinions, is of great importance. However, in the current case of issuing an opinion on the requirements for increased heat prices, the HERA Administrative Council acted in a way that violated these principles and stability of the heat sector in the Republic of Croatia. In that procedure, the facts are as follows. HERA has adopted and published an opinion only on 7 companies of 11 who have submitted a request, for the remaining 4 companies which have also submitted their opinions are not given, published, or delivered to the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which has injured the principle of equality of parties in the process. HERA considered the requests for an opinion through sickness for up to 5 months and eventually established an opinion only for individual heat companies in the energy sector. This delay in the process of adopting opinions and partial consideration of the sector's problem, by the state administration's body, endangers the entire heat sector. In the absence of an assessment of whether the complexity of the procedures prescribed by HERA or an isolated case is affected, we believe that the principle of efficiency and economics has been violated, that administrative matters are handled as easily as possible, without delay, and at as little cost as possible. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that the Governing Council of HERA has led companies which have not received an opinion in a discriminatory position, rather than for the entire heat sector, which has been in difficulty for a long time, to cause unnecessary public harassment before any decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been made. Furthermore, those procedures, the President of the Management Board of the Agency and the members of the Governing Council, have made serious infringements of their duties in accordance with the statutes, since the application of the principle of visibility, objectivity and impartiality in the performance of the tasks considered to be one of the basic duties of the members of the HERA Board of Directors is not ensured. Since the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 18 of the Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities states that the reason for the resolution of members of the Governing Council and the gravity of violations of the Statutes of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the discharge of Tomo Galić as chairman of the Governing Council of HERA, and the resolution of Darko Pavlovic, Dubravka Štefanec, professor of science Ante Marusic and Loridana Smoljanic, as members of the Governing Council of HERA. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53443	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53444	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club will support the resolution of the HERA Steering Council, but of course how, in order for the system not to stop, to make things work we are asking that, and it would be good if you had already come with a proposal today who will continue to do the job. Since HERA is a constituency agency, it means one body regulatoryly overseeing the energy sector, which has no small influence, but large, we find it inadmissible to meet in the airspace for the next few months. The SDP representative club was not satisfied with HERA's work and many of the things HERA did we warned that they were not good and we asked during the last reports that the administrative council was changing. I'll only list some of the things the HERA has marked over the past two years. HERA has been the work of Mr. Galić for the past two years, marked by the work, his work of many affairs, primarily the purchase of space from JANAF for 50 million kuna, where 40 HERA employees replaced 170 JANAF employees. For example, his apartment, given to him by HEP, means the company Mr. Galic was supposed to oversee through HERA, was given the opportunity to buy a cheap apartment from HEP. On the other hand, many of the things that were related to his work were financed by HERA, and had nothing to do with the practical value in his real work, for example the courses for supervisors at the Faculty of Economics, and it is known that Mr Galic could not have been a member of the Supervisory Board in his capacity. Many of the things they marked, scandals that marked his work were not the reason for the shift, but the reason for the shift would be that he did not inform Prime Minister Kosor that he had resolved a particular case and gave an opinion, either positively, whether negatively certain companies dealing with energy activities. So that was the reason. You did not directly inform Prime Minister Kosor before you let the decision go out, and the decision was announced in accordance with the law on the HERA portal and was made available to the entire public, including Prime Minister Kosor. Of course, since he hadn't asked immediately an expeditional request for his shift was directed and here he is today at... The affairs weren't the reason, but because you didn't inform Prime Minister Kosor. [[You don't understand.]] And that's why it's a very simple message for everyone, and it's especially important because it's about the agency for, uh, the regulatory agency appointed by the Parliament. A message to everyone in the regulatory agencies who doesn't think as Prime Minister Kosor will be fired. And of course that's not good, and of course it shouldn't be and shouldn't be, the regulatory agencies aren't doing their job right, because they're afraid that some of their decisions will have a reflection on the government, on Prime Minister Kosor, and that's why they'll eventually be removed. And that's why we're having problems with the Competition Agency, we're seeing a big affair that's working, and we see that Olga Spevec has been at consultations with Prime Minister Sanader's former, when the question of taking over MOL and INA. These things are all the consequences of this behavior that has been at work for the last six years, and Prime Minister Kosor continues to celebrate it. If you don't think like I do, you're gonna get fired. Now, that's not the point of regulatory agencies. The purpose of the regulatory agencies is to regulate the market individually and to protect Croatian consumers from the negative effects of the market, and the monopolitical behaviour of individual companies. They don't do that, of course, but they do it by the dictatorship of politics whatever it takes. To see that, especially on the issue of HERA, you can see it because there are five people in the Governing Council of Hera, 3 people who came from HEP. So what kind of market regulation is that when such an impact has one company on the regulatory body? Both Mr. Galic and two other members were before HEP employees. And now they should as well control what HEP is doing, how HEP is doing and whether they are acting responsibly and in the best possible way towards consumers in Croatia. Of course it's not realistic to expect and of course it doesn't happen in practice. And speaking of purchases, HEP last year raised energy prices in most of the cities where he delivers. Unfortunately, he acted sometimes and of course HERA gave him permission to raise prices and it is not a question of price hikes now when Prime Minister Kosor reacted, but did not react when prices were rising in Zagreb by 15.7% in Osijek by 23%, in Samobor by 13%, in Zapresic by 13%, then she did not react, it did not bother her, it excited her, but now she reacted because of a positive opinion and replaced the HERE Administrative Council. She did not react the same way when HERA set herself in a political position and tried to influence the results of the local elections. The same company HEP Toplinarstvo raised the price, watch this, in Zagreb 15.7%, and only 20km to Zagreb in Velika Gorica 47% and thus tried to politically influence the decision-making and in some way local elections in Velika Gorica. At the time, HERA was not interested in anything, neither did former Prime Minister Sanader nor current Prime Minister Kosor, as, of course, it was politically appropriate for HDZ. Unfortunately, such work, not unfortunately, but such SDP work cannot support it. And I'm going to say one more fact, which is that HERA is indeed, and the president of the HERA Board of Directors is that it was really a work that he was in charge of probably would never have been scandalized now, or there would be no scandal with HEP and the sale of electricity to TLM. Because HERA and its president had the opportunity to take control of energy subjects in accordance with the provisions of the Energy Act and the laws governing the implementation of certain energy activities. Why hasn't HERA ever taken control of HEP, which is the largest company in the sector? Never, not once a HERA employee, the HERA's professional services entered HEP. If they did, if they did their job, there wouldn't be a Hep-TLM scandal and selling cheaper electricity. That didn't interfere with Prime Minister Kosor. Why does this not point out why the Administrative Council should be replaced? Because HERA would then most likely have discovered these questioning jobs much earlier. Of course, it did not suit the government or Prime Minister Sanader politically, but neither did Prime Minister Kosor. And that is why, although we support the change of councils because we have been pointing out the poor work all along, the irregularities in the work, we have to vote for, but this way of work that the government, or the ruling HDZ party, is now applying, we cannot support because it only contributes to making the regulatory agencies weaker in the future, if possible worse, do their job. The agencies must be there for consumers, not HDZ. Finally, the only thing I ask when proposing new members is that we haven't gotten this yet, to make sure that these members are not in such a conflict of interest as they were. I can't have 3 out of 5 HERA members coming from a company they're supposed to oversee, regulate, approve of their prices and that's a practice that's inadmissible. In all our regulatory, almost, I won't tell everyone, almost all the regulatory agencies are people who are in conflict of interest. In HERA, at the Competition Protection Agency, at the Telecom Market Regulatory Agency, everywhere, all people are connected to former companies where they worked some time ago and they should as well protect the interest of consumers, not the interest of these companies. And that practice needs to be done. And for that, I say, we pray that, in the future of this agency's proposal, everyone else takes care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53445	Thank you. We've got corrections. First is Mr. Dragan Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53446	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of counterpart Maras, who said the replacement of the HERA Steering Council is happening because Hera's opinion has not been informed of Prime Minister Kosor. So that's absolutely not true. Namely, this shift is due to a lack of respect for the procedure, due to a delay in the procedure because 5 months have been waiting for the opinion and demand of thermal companies, because of the selective approach of 11 who have submitted an opinion only 4 have received an opinion and also because they act as though they are out of the system. So these are the real reasons for the shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53447	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53448	Well, an incorrect colleague said the shift was due to Prime Minister Kosor's principle attitude "if you don't think like me then you should be replaced". That's not true. You could have heard from the State Secretary's opening statement that it was a serious violation of the statutes of the institution itself. So that's why there's a shift, because of a serious violation of the statutes. If you haven't listened carefully enough, then find out what the real reason is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53449	Correction, Mr Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53450	Well, here's the esteemed Mr. President, I'm correcting claims relating to the unacceptable sale of cheap electricity to TLM, HEP, etc., an affair that is media spin. Dear sir, it's nice to talk about electricity when you don't know anything about electricity. If they knew anything about electricity, they'd talk about it more competent, more professional and more thorough. 12. 4. 2007, 12. I'm a professor at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, 12. 4. In 2007, let me say it, Mr. President. 12. 4. In 2007, when the contract was signed, the difference in electricity prices was below 1 euro per megawatt hour, below 1 euro, the same contract as that 12. 4. 2007 is agreed and will be signed in the next days, the electricity price is 0.28 times ELB over 14.5 megawatt hours per tonne of aluminium. The only safeguard clause was introduced and the whole problem occurred as a consequence of the global economic crisis when LMI. The price of a ton of aluminum on the London Stock Exchange from 2.5 thousand dropped to $1,200 per tonne. It's the only state, it's the only affair in the world in which the economic crisis is declared a crime. This is your result and your contribution to a better understanding of the Croatian economic scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53451	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53452	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Namely, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the decision to resolve the president and members of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency's Governance Council. In fact, we believe that everyone in the system should be responsible for calling for independence when it comes to HERA and which it should have does not mean that someone is out of the system and that they can do what they want. Independence is related to an independent expert assessment, no one questions it, but when that independent profession comes selectively when it tends to tempt when it adopts an opinion and tends to tempt when it is released into the public, then it is no longer a profession then it is something else and such actions themselves members of the board have questioned their independence. The government proposes members of the Administrative Council, the Parliament appoints members of the Administrative Council, hence, and HERA is part of the system and it needs to do its part of the work and contribute to the overall energy policy of the state. As part of the system, salting, disregarding procedures, delaying procedures, selective approach, cannot be a way of working such an important institution and must be held accountable for it. In addition to this by acting selectively towards 11 heat companies, HERA questioned market equality and brought into question the discriminatory position of several companies, so specifically in this case 4 companies, compared to those 7 who responded to the request, but should also be highlighted by five months late. So, clearly equating this decision according to its opinion, that is, its own opinion. Someone can't create a system, and someone can mine it, independence doesn't mean that someone can do what they want. All measures and gatherings at this time of the economic crisis must be harmonised and no one is allowed to solify in such a system. The government is making huge efforts to stabilise the energy sector, which has a key impact on prices, on health calculations, on citizens' standards, and this cannot be questioned by such irresponsible behaviours of such an institution. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the government's decision to dismiss the president and members of the board of directors of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53453	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53454	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club and the Croatian Retired Party considers this topic to have led to a level of tragedy and for several reasons. First of all, the government has tried to humiliate the role of the Croatian Parliament from its session on April 29th to this day. How? All those discussions led by the Croatian Parliament on the operation of HERA as regulatory agencies were not worth a written bomb when the responsibility of HERA was assessed, and now one of the only events that had escaped control, which, worst of all, only testifies that HERA tried to be independent, caused such anger, that it was clear to Mr Galic and all other members of the administrative council that no one else could save them, and especially because their political protector was in Remetinac. So, nothing was worth it, what we in this House pointed out to the failures and in the procedure, and in respect of the statutes, and in respect of the law on the regulation of energy activities, that it was totally unacceptable for prices to rise at once by 47%, as was the case in Velika Gorica, where several hundred citizens protested a year ago on the road, nothing was worth it. It wasn't worth it when we talked about scandals that were being dragged after HERA like that, for people who ran it, so it wasn't worth anything. But when the Agency is obviously aware that there is a noise on the channel with the Ministry of Economy and Government, respecting the procedure because it has reacted as well before, it has published a non-binding opinion on its websites, because HERA's opinion is not binding, which is the worst of all, it did not fit the government's policy and at the same time the alarm was on and it was clear that Mr Galic and his team could no longer remain. And we can now say whatever we want, that we have warned before, that the practice of HERA was inadmissible, which is worst of all, that in this case HERA tried to be truly independent of the government, and that it would pay with its head. What is this message sent to regulatory agencies in the Republic of Croatia? Even if you hadn't thought of a busy position that you didn't first communicate with the competent ministry or the government. Therefore, it leaves its independence and independence behind the door because when the finance minister says independence is not to do whatever it wants, as he said at a session of the government on April 29th, then it is a very clear message of what time it is. Don't get involved where you think your place is and what the law says is your place, but stay on your side and wait for the Imputs of the government that can only function responsibly in this system. How else to interpret the Prime Minister's words, which in the government on April 29th, clearly and loudly criticised HERA, saying that she appears to be independent of responsibility alone. Well, she's responsible for the Croatian Parliament, not the Government. So, what a responsibility to the government. The government did not initiate a discussion of the responsibility of the administrative council here in this House, but came with a request for a shift. That's two very different things. Now all of a sudden, what's been going on for years is no good. But citizens who were cheated, played, who at the time of the economic crisis felt what it means when the policy interferes with the regulation of energy activities, so when they get over the night 45 or 50% bigger bills won't forget what happened here. And now we're in a schizophrenic situation, so no one can support the administrative council behind that policy and the government is counting on it. But we must be aware that this kind of government approach actually ruins the reputation of the Croatian Parliament. To vote for this proposal of the Government means to humiliate the reputation of the Croatian Parliament. To vote against him means to abolize HERA's leadership for everything she's done over the past few years to which we rightly indicated that it's wrong. We'll squeeze our teeth, but we won't forget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53455	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Daniel Srb, losing his right to debate on this agenda point. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53456	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, we have two different interpretations of the reason for this shift. One interpretation of the reasons we heard from the secretary of state, and as we can see from our colleague Matušić, it is not known why when it is clear to everyone and when it is published in all the daily newspapers, on Croatian radio television, as said by Prime Minister Kosor. Prime Minister Kosor did not say anything but not one of these reasons the secretary of state listed here as the reason for the replacement of Tom Galic. She didn't say anything about deadlines that are not respected, she didn't say anything about disrupting the equality of entities in front of that regulatory body or on the market. She said only one thing: "If someone makes a decision on the collection then they must inform the government. And as prime minister, I didn't hear anything about it, nor did I get the information." That's what she said. Therefore, anything pointing out by counterpart Matušić to explain the secretary of state to explain that some of the other reasons are at stake here is falling into the water. It's just a lie. The truth is the only one. To this Galic is being replaced because he was insubordination. He didn't ask the prime minister, and that's what he dared to bring some kind of opinion that he was legally entitled to. The second thing is that it's controversial here, that we're getting a proposal to resolve this administrative council, and we don't have any appointments. So when Tomo Galic and the board of directors are resolved, no one will lead the HERA. No one will decide or oversee the entire energy sector. It's HEP, it's JANAF, it's the biggest companies. It doesn't matter to the government whether someone is going to oversee the state of the energy market regulation. It is important for her to replace Tom Galic because he was insubordination. She didn't even bother to find others, to propose new people along with the resolution. So, this same Tomo Galic was not removed when he bought a HEP apartment as an ex-employee of HEP at a preferential price, but was probably not removed because in that case he asked the prime minister to do so, and she allowed him to do so. He hasn't been removed when you've been paying him for the supervisory course, and from this position he can't be on any supervisory board. And when he was paying for that HERA's money, and I guess that's why he asked the prime minister, so she let him spend HERA's money that way. He was removed when he didn't ask. And why didn't he ask? He didn't ask if he was allowed to do what the law had authorized him and the entire HERA. to adopt a non-binding opinion and to publish it on HERA's website in accordance with the law. It wasn't removed when he broke the laws but it was removed when he acted according to the law. It is an interesting relationship between Prime Minister Kosor and the entire government towards officials who have been entrusted with anything. Something has already been said about the conflict of interest here. It's really not good when in independent regulatory bodies, people come from those entities that they have to monitor. As is the case between HEP and HERA. And now again, the HDZ's interesting attitude is that. They have not seen a conflict of interest here, none, but in the appointment of the 11th member of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme, they see a conflict of interest where it is not. And they say that eventually, there might be a conflict of interest, so they don't want to name 11 council members. Here, where conflict of interest is evident, it does not bother Mr Hebrang or Markovanovic or the rest of the HDZ and their club, and it bothers them in the Committee on Information. A very unusual concept of conflict of interest. One very selective application of this principle of HERA independence. While HERA was ahead of the local elections, and apparently now, by order and with the permission of Prime Minister Kosor because we see that she can't handle it if she's not asked anything, if an independent regulatory agency doesn't ask her anything, she has approved the collection of gas in Velika Gorica by 46%, in Zagreb by 15%. So while she was working, listening to HDZ, everything was fine. The damage to the citizens is very important. The fact that the citizens of Velika Gorica had to pay for the gas costing 46%, it doesn't matter, so let them pay. But now that she's acted independently for the first time, she's changing them. So much for this agency's independence. Who is Tomo Galić and what are the real reasons for the shift? In Koprivnica, Tomo Galic was Polancec's deputy in HDZ, closely tied to Polancec, so he comes from Polancec's bag. Tomo Galić is guilty, among other things, of whether he is not guilty of the HEP TLM affair. Well, HERA was the one who was supposed to monitor and warn. It is not possible to sell electricity under privileged conditions and at a preferential price to one economic operator and to sell it to another private entity. And not yet to the end user of that current because TLM wasn't using that power, he was just selling further. So he actually acted there as a buyer or a power hoarder. HERA should have and Tomo Galic should have been the one to warn the public on the websites, and certainly also Prime Minister Kosor or Prime Minister Sanader at that time, it must not be done, it is a crime. Well, that's why he's set up to monitor it. No one Tomo Galic was warned, nor did he think of warning when he knew it was a political decision by the HDZ, as the prime minister said, just signed. Imagine, nothing more than just signing. Tomo Galic is in play, he is part of a team that has damaged the Republic of Croatia for 600 million kuna, and this harmful decision was signed by Prime Minister Kosor. And Tomo Galic is one very unpleasant witness. And now he's moving to Tom Galic because if the investigation comes to that end, and it should come for God's sake, so they don't replace him when the investigation covers him in advance, out of caution, just in case, that he won't be able to connect Tom Galic with Prime Minister Kosor tomorrow, and that Prime Minister Kosor could say tomorrow, so I told him to take a shift from Galic. Those are the real reasons, not the ones that the secretary of state listed here and who write in this explanation. Therefore, Tomo Galic should never have been appointed head of HERA. These are HDZ appointments, these are HDZ feathers, these are networked people, resulting in 600 million damages for the Republic of Croatia. Tom Galic's shift should be supported, there is no doubt about it. We hope that the government will be smarter and more responsible in proposing new ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53457	Thank you. We're all MPs, but we're not investigative judges or state lawyers or judges, and maybe we should get around it a little bit, not to turn a assembly like I've said many times, into a police investigation, into a state attorney's office and into a court of law. We have one replica. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53458	My colleague, we've talked about it all, but I want to draw attention to one thing. The Prime Minister, with this proposal, has shown what she thinks of an independent agency, what she thinks of the independence of any body or institution in the Republic of Croatia, their place and position in the Croatian state and Croatian society. What a responsibility, just obedience. If someone's just ringing an irregularity, it's ringing. It's her famous fight against corruption, and it's actually shown itself in advance and what it is, no horse rider that holds the reins tightly, rather than simply an apocalypse rider.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53459	Thank you. We also have an answer to this replica. Mr. Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53460	What kind of fight against corruption are you talking about? So this same Tomo Galic bought 70 thousand kuna paintings from the wife of HDZ representative Milinkovic. It didn't bother anyone. Is that when Prime Minister Kosor came here before the Parliament and asked for his shift? Is that when any of the HDZ told that same Galic, so listen, man, it can't be done like that? Did it bother anyone? Here in this Assembly HDZ only bothers when the truth is spoken, then even the President of the Parliament reacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53461	It's best to keep your mouth shut because every map of the bucket is said in us. Mr. Lesar has his word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53462	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. After three years of the words HEP and HERA, I mentioned very often and some other last names. Some of them are now in custody and some of the last names I often mentioned should now be replaced. And as persistent as I was and warned that we had so many riots, corruption and strange moves in the Croatian energy sector. It has always gone beyond that until for some other reasons or some other authorities have come to realize that there are reasons for investigations, detention, prosecution. I was warning of the fact that the human HERA is a copy of HEP. Nobody cared. By the way, when I say HERA, thinking about this agency, I remember the goddess here. Hera committed adultery, and she was the goddess of marriage, and she made Zeus very angry and must be removed. She felt the anger of Zeus. In the light of the reasons for the resolution of the HERA Governing Council, there is no mention of the HEP-TLM contract. After all, Madam Secretary of State, who has established the facts that the Government's reasoning says they've done? What supervisory body? Who was in HERA and found out what it says here? Mrs. Kosor? She signed this submission. So nobody's here. You haven't bothered to write down who has determined the management council's conduct as it says here. I've reviewed their statements and their documents on the websites for a year and a half ago. What they did in this case that incriminate you're looking for a shift was done all the time. I asked the question how is it that HERA's opinions in increasing electricity prices always have calendar ties to Croatia's elections. Because some opinions were given six and a half months after the application was filed, and two days before the cabinet meeting. It never bothered anyone. I warned of the fact that the issue of private investment and electricity production, for example, from wind power plants in Croatia, could not move unless the investor is HEP. And that there are certain problems, voiced his suspicion that something suspicious was involved. I warned of the fact that the issue of even legislative solutions in determining the tariff classes for determining electricity prices is not good, and even the right to sell electricity is not good. I warned on the fact that HERA hasn't been doing its job in the last year and a half, but back months I haven't found anything but absolutely nothing that would have been done differently than before. Is it true that HERA gave a positive opinion on the contract HEP – TLM, in the contract for the sale of electricity under privileged conditions. Because if it isn't, the contract should be legally invalid. Why were the USCOD investigators at HERA about these contracts and not the government? Did HERA give a positive opinion or consent to TLM to export electricity? A company not authorized to do so, or did TLM export electricity beyond the consent and permission of HERA? There's nothing in this argument. I expected us to hear in our oral explanation the real reasons for the administrative council's resolution. What it says is unclear who found it and can't be the real reason because the real reasons are then at least a year and a half old. But if what the government says is true, then if that's true, did they just violate their powers or commit a crime? Does the Government intend to file criminal charges or criminal charges against all members of the Governing Council under suspicion of committing a criminal offence of abuse of power? What he writes here should be the reason by my court that the Government, the State's Attorney's Office, file a report under suspicion of committing a crime. So, in writing, I won't, and verbally nothing has been said. Because only by filing a report can you prove that these reasons are only true and true when you seek the resolution of the HERA Governance Council. If that doesn't happen then these reasons really aren't true, then they're just political. And I end up with a question. If tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the Parliament discharges the Administrative Council when will be the appointment of a new Governing Council? For how many days, the times will be HERA without the Governing Council and whether the Government, Madam Secretary of State, is thinking of changing the law and preventing the possibility of a potential conflict of interest, that the Governing Council of the Energy Regulatory Agency cannot be elected by people who were or are related to HERA. Whether this experience we have now had enough to amend the law, the way, the conditions that council members must meet to prevent future such things from happening. Because if you don't change anything and the new Administrative Council will be in this situation soon. But the key question is, if this is the only reason for the resolution have you filed or will you file criminal charges against members and presidents of the HERA Board of Directors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53463	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53464	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, we started talking in Parliament about bags that came out of whose bags. I also don't know whose bags a fellow Stazic came out of. I guess he knows that better than anyone, judging by the performances. And also in advance, I apologize for the conflict of interest that was justified on Croatian radio television that Mr. Stazic could not send to the director... Croatian broadcasters. [[You don't understand.]] Also when he mentioned HDZ fins, I think they were unsurpassed by the SDP by getting 4.7m euros in bribes from Daimler, which is a clear record at the height of the bribe, so let's start from our own, and then it'll probably be easier to come to the truth. So, we're deliberately skipping, we're skipping the facts, and the HERA, that Hera didn't treat everyone the same way. The distributors, i.e. companies dealing with energy distribution, obviously were not in an equal position, which normally brings harm, unlike many theorists, and I talked to several company representatives, clearly that they were satisfied, others unhappy, not because of the HERA's solution, but because of the order of resolution. Let's remind ourselves that HERA, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency was created as a legal follower of the Energy Regulatory Council, that here it is that we have a little time, you might want to skip, that for the work of HERA, there was a significant adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities in July 2007, so in September 2007, we were dealing with this, there may be some kind of failure and we did because here is the President of the Governing Council got quite the power in HERA. The entire range of tasks and responsibilities has become a direct autonomous area of conduct and independent decision-making of the President of the Governing Council, since the election, appointment of members of the Governing Council and direct decision on their status, to the direct management of supervision and management of the work of professional services. So obviously we're going to have to change that, and since the failure, again, I say no longer, here are the rarely called meetings of advice on regulatory issues and consumer advice, and lately, when tariff systems have been changed and opinions have been prepared on proposals for changes in the amount of tariff items, these tips have not been called once. It is missed in the process of preparing and adopting changes to important sublegal acts and changing the height of tariff items, including normal and other institutions, especially the Consumer Protection Association, concluded customers themselves. And now by bringing some, normally positive opinions and publishing them not entirely, but partly on its Internet site, and without simultaneously showing the demands of energy subjects to which these opinions apply, HERA has put the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia before the final act on further proposal and decision-making. At the same time with this institution, public authorities are confronted with energy entities both with the public and of course with customers. So at a time when we're really trying to protect customers, when we're actually trying to make sure that all these entities are energy, especially and they're working really well, when we're trying to make some reconciliation, normally every panic that appears on, in the country, on the market, normally to fit, I say, and I'm telling my colleagues Stazic and everyone else, but the goal is, if that's done, to do it equally and honestly. All of this happened along with the reduced limits and fences that all the other day were valid methodologies of tariff systems, i.e. the tariff systems as much as they had. This is why serious negative consequences, procedures for the determination and adoption of tariff items, i.e. in the overall regulatory framework, are yet to be expected, including the complaint requests of energy subjects to the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. So, and it might happen because, again, I say unfair treatment. Due to the way HERA manages and acts in the energy sector and in the energy market, so it is electricity and gas, there has been a stalemate in the process of restructuring and detachment of energy activities, and then the opening of the energy market. The energy market is obviously going to need to open more. For the purpose of smooth and successful operation of HERA its position as an independent energy regulator, an independent, independent and non-profit public institution established in order to establish and implement energy regulation in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to draw appropriate conclusions and lessons from the previous experiences of its work and the work of its Governing Council. Namely a new administrative council, which means the new President of the Governing Council, and all its members should do everything possible to achieve this. The assumption of this is clear and transparent cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, procedures in the current legislative and regulatory framework need to be carried out in order to formally eliminate the number of deficiencies and indistinguishability observed. We know that the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to build a visible and effective legislative framework for the energy sector, i.e. the introduction of markets and the development of market and public services. These are the conditions for participation in European energy flows and markets. In this connection, an efficient system of regulation of energy activities is also seen and should be the objective and obligation, since this creates good direct assumptions, for all other positive processes related to the energy system, its restructuring, liberalisation, then diversification of ownership, and the launch of new development projects, as low as possible risks and negative impacts on the environment and people. All available experience points to the necessity of good and transparent cooperation between legislators and regulatory bodies in national frameworks, and this is possible only on condition that it works publicly, of course fully within the framework of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and that, consistently and in terms of expression and spirit, it follows in practice the relevant European standards and solutions for energy sectors and markets. The Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have the right and obligation to create an appropriate regulatory framework in the Republic of Croatia, and the HERA obligation and mandate as an independent regulatory body within that framework, to act consistently according to the pre-known rules and principles. Therefore, a consistent and clear regulatory framework and respect for the principles that bring the relevant economic directives to the organisation of the energy sector and the market, today Europe is seen as a key prerequisite for developing or attracting professional businesses and investment. The Republic of Croatia must certainly aim to engage in such affairs and attract them, as well as to invest in the energy sector and its institutions. The Republic of Croatia must participate actively in regional flows and markets, i.e. projects and jobs that they bring. The role and responsibility of HERA are even greater. It must actively cooperate with relevant state institutions, authorities and institutions, whatever we or whatever we want. Because obviously cooperation, to us, is actually an opposition, an opposition to co-operation is obviously not responding because if cooperation is a dictatorship, and the independence of agencies depends on the quality of agencies. And I think it's gonna be the turn of all the agencies now, so maybe they're gonna need some and cancel what I agree with anyway. The ones that are unnecessary and the ones that are ineffective, which we'll do here all together I mean the joy of all of us. Here, because of all these previously mentioned failures of HERA, I support here that the director and director are also members of the HERA Board of Directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53465	Mr. Representative and ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to have to step in one more time before I can correct the incorrect allegations. Therefore, it is unnecessary to stress, but it seems that every few of us still need to renew this knowledge that the Constitution has established the division of power in Croatia. Legislative, executive and judicial power. It's not about the bribes, it's about the truck, and we're not cops, we're not state lawyers, we're not judges. As no damage of 600 million has been proven, which has been possible in HEP, etc. Let the authorities that we have established ourselves do all their work and bring down our discussions in the context of what we can speak. You can talk about some doubt, etc., that's fine. But that we're already talking about this as a done deal, a conviction, and I don't know what. I don't think it's right. So that applies to everyone. I would now like to correct Mr. Zoran Vinkovic's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53466	Here's your thanks, Mr. President. I just wanted you, which is exactly what you said, because if a respected representative knows who took a bribe duty as a citizen, and especially a representative would be to report it. And I thank you for warning one from the HDZ now. But here I am, thanking you here, even though you're going to retire, you've announced, I see you're still well aware of that, and it's a great honor for you. And now, if I can make this correction to an incorrect quote about a shadow director. Well, if Mr. Stazic were a bar and a shadow director, they'd probably know a few months ago who signed a contract for that cycle of electricity resales and who should ultimately be held accountable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53467	We'll see. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, since it's 13:30 now, and we have two more debates and the government is going to show itself on this debate in conclusion, I'm going to interrupt the debate now. We will continue at 3:00 p.m. and first order is Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, then Slavko Linic and finally the Prime Minister. And at 13.30, she stopped reporting for 10 minutes. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53468	We continue the session, I pray for a little apology from MPs and MPs, there was one pressing reason why he was a little late with the session. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. So, I think there is a general consensus that Galic must leave, for us it was a question of whether it was appropriate at all that the person who worked at HEP and most of the board of directors could move to the HERE administrative council. However, a whole number of other questions are raised, what we certainly disagree about are the reasons why Galic should go. But what further raises the question to me is why the administrative council is leaving. Because if the reasons stated by the prime minister are correct and it is that Mr Galic did not ask her if she was allowed to grant approval for an increase in heat energy, then it is certainly not the council's responsibility. If the exact reasons that it says here are in the explanation that we got on the table, then there's also absolutely no responsibility of the board. Because I assume that the motionors have read the law and have read the Statute of HERA, and in law, especially in the Statute of HERA, it says that the administrative council cannot do anything that the President of the Governing Council does not propose. Therefore, what Galic did not propose the administrative council could not discuss, what Galic did not call, the administrative council could not meet, what Galic did not put on the agenda of the administrative council could not discuss. She could not have known, according to the statutes of the Governing Council of HERA, that there were requirements of a higher distributor for the supply of heat energy and could not know what demands Galic would put on the agenda, which Galic would not put on the agenda. I suppose we have read the Statute of the HER Board of Directors in which he unequivocally says that the President of the Governing Council appoints his deputy, that the President of the Governing Council brings the necessary acts for work and business, organises, manages and responsible for the professional work and business of the Agency, not only of the Governing Council, but also of the Agency as a whole. And now to cover what the prime minister actually wants to do, and she wants to get rid of Galic, and it seems to me not because of heat energy but because of a number of other things, we sacrifice the entire administrative council and transfer responsibility for the entire administrative council for what Galic is responsible, although I believe that Galic is not responsible at all in this case because he was only doing his job. But when the government brings something, and signs the prime minister, just sign the prime minister, then it is not sought, the government considers it responsible, neither the prime minister nor the vice president is responsible for what she has signed, but is being punished, or is trying to punish or suspect one of the government members or someone who has implemented the government's decision. But that principle doesn't apply here in the case of HERA. They're all responsible for HERA, responsible for doing their job, for everything they didn't do right here, you don't say a word. I think that in this argument, at least two sentences should have been written about why HERA was responsible for the increase in gas prices at the meeting of the Governing Council 16. 1st and applies from 1st. One this year. As it is possible that the regulator has not determined the price of the gas but determines it with retroactive application, there is no word here. There's no telling why Hera wasn't allowed to make a decision on the gas tariff. Only after an agreement has been reached on how much gas it is allowed to collect, green light has been given and from 16 days late tariffs are granted to distributors, and from 16 days late distributors send notice and accounts to users and say look at you, you didn't know it yet but the gas has been collected from you since 1 January this year. Well, someone here has somehow figured out that HERA has granted approval for the collection of thermal energy without being asked or approved by the Prime Minister. If that is indeed true in the explanation, then for all the gatherings that have been in Croatia for the past year she has known, she is responsible and approved by the prime minister. Including all electricity collection, including all gas collection including the announced electricity collection of 13% as of 1 July. We have no explanation here, for example, why the HERA Administrative Council on its website says that HEP distribution request for price hikes has been rejected, and then sent to the Ministry of Economy that HERA has adopted not 19% but 13% increase in the price of distribution. How can we have two different documents from one institution? One on the website where we heroise and say we have not met the requirements, which is true, we said we can collect 19%, but on the other hand came to the Ministry of Economy requesting and suggestion that it can go totaling 13%. This is a very serious precedent in the regulation in the area of the market in Croatia, because if for these reasons the president and the board of directors are replaced, I am in favour of replacing the president, but if for these reasons it is removed then all other regulatory authorities should seriously consider whether and at what point the prime minister is resented. Do they have to ask the prime minister first and then just act and edit the market as independent regulatory bodies or will they come under the knife and be replaced? It was perfectly normal and logical that with the shift request came the business report, that we know what all HERA had done so that we could discuss it, so the work of HERA. And we here determine that one is the only precedent, and that is to get more requests, to one answer or to a few answers, and for several, not enough reasons to shift. Is that enough reason for other regulators? Is this always going to be a reason to replace the entire administrative council from now on, although I repeat, the administrative council had no authority to decide, could not even know if there were any demands and what the professional services had done? No, not according to the statutes no. Only the president of the HERA Management Council decided what and how it would work in Hera itself. the members of the Board of Directors could not request that all requests be made at the meeting of the Governing Council and that all requests be decided. We don't even know if all the demands were made, so some took it and some didn't. But we punish people who have in no way had the opportunity to decide. We punish them for one reason on paper for other real reasons known in public. What's absurd is that we don't have a proposal to appoint with a request for resolution. Which is going to be in this interregnum, or we're going to discuss it today, so we won't vote long enough until we figure out who's decent enough to sit on HERA's Governance Council. This is a situation that is inadmissible, according to laws that apply. And it is particularly inadmissible according to what HERA needs to be on the Croatian market in the future, which is according to the third package of the European Union Directive, HERA will decide independently from next year on what price it can be and allow the tariff. It will no longer need the consent of the ministry and the government and will answer to the European Commission. How then HERA will be able to make decisions, because it will not be in a position to call the European Commissioner and ask him if he can think with his head and make tariffs in accordance with the law, or according to the argument that distributors or lieutenants have submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53470	Thank you. Correction of the quote, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53471	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague to just correct your inaccuracies. So we're replacing members of HERA today, but we can't put forward a proposal for new people at the same time today, it's the next session and the next procedure. First they must be resolved, then there must be a proposal for appointment and must be selected. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53472	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. In developed parliamentary democracies, the executive authority has in some way limited its ability to manage resources, markets, regulatory bodies are formed. In some ways we tried it in the Croatian Assembly. give authority to the Croatian Parliament to control the freedom of movement of goods, people through certain regulators, and this is the reason for these regulators to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament. Can we be satisfied with the work of the Croatian Parliament in the control of the work of regulators? I think HERA is showing us best that we can't be satisfied with our work. We didn't do our job right. Or rather, most in the Croatian Parliament did not do their job. Let us try to assess the energy market in the Republic of Croatia and what will we be able to conclude when we give an assessment of the energy market in the Republic of Croatia? The state of the electricity market is not satisfactory. Insufficient investment, insufficient use of water resources, gas resources, insufficient production and what is the biggest tragedy, unquality pricing policy and towards citizens, and particularly catastrophic towards the economy. The price of electricity destroys any economic activity. And what's most important is we're completely turning to the good part of importing electricity. We're moving on to the gas market. Also dependent on sources, dependent on imports, not enough has been invested not only in gas sites in the Republic of Croatia, but also transport routes of that same energy, and prices are better off being talked about. Completely stopped, I would say responsible pricing policy that would in some way interest investors, manufacturers or gas distributors to invest in the Croatian energy plant and thus ensure sufficient amounts of gas. Let's move on. What to say about the oil derivative market, too. Prices come on, we'd say the only price policy that meets. And at the same time you don't invest, you don't have enough investment. And worst of all, we find an uninterrupted excuse not to apply European standards in protecting the environment and consumers of the generation of engine 5 when we talk about the euro 5 standard. So we can't be satisfied here either. All these are facts that each of us, if we take a serious look at HERA materials if we seriously examine the energy situation in the Republic of Croatia, we can reach a conclusion. Therefore, the energy market in Croatia is neither well-organised nor well-run and fully stopped investments 100 or mostly let's not exaggerate on import-related figures. The Croatian Parliament and we representatives in the Croatian Parliament when we discuss such reports, we should also give our assessment of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. And in the last two years, as you can see, we've split up. The ruling coalition, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and for such a dissatisfaction, finds no responsibility in the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency that they are also carrying part of the blame for such a situation. So, we who are responsible for the state of the energy market are not trying to find responsibility with the regulatory body that has to take care of the situation on the market on behalf of us. In the last two years, the SDP club has not given a positive opinion and does not agree to the same agency's report. Therefore, we in the House were the ones who could decide on serious work, serious failures. The ruling coalition because the government thought it was fine until yesterday. I think a few months ago we processed the last report. A couple of months. They got a passing grade. We're... Even though we know and agree that this condition is unsustainable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDP club did not give and that is why, we will agree to change and it does not matter whether one or all of them are responsible because the situation is unsatisfactory, citizens do not have security of supply, the economy has no security of supply. The economy pays too much, the citizens face the problems of the collection because we are, you will allow, in a month or a year, probably members of the European Community. In the European Community, the electricity market, derivatives, gas, must be regulated. Who will pay these sudden price hikes that we will obviously have to spend the moment we sign the accession documents to the European Community. All this is because HERA did not do its job, which did not professionally approach regulation and protect one of the most important markets in the Croatian economy. Of course, the question remains where is the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament. You see, the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament and our representatives is that we do not realize what our responsibility is to control the work of regulators in the Republic of Croatia, that when we read their reports we try to assess those markets that they must monitor. Of course, then we come up with the biggest problem, the assessment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that it is the majority in the Assembly that gives passing grades even though we cannot approve these passing assessments. We can't... And then there's these excesses like this where just half a year's government changes its mind, we're not going in for any reason at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a proposal today to resolve the energy agency, and only six months ago, we gave it a pass. Then we send another message to Europe and to the economy. Which one? The Croatian Parliament will only act as the government thinks, just as the government assesses. We are no longer able as Croatian parliamentary representatives to do our job seriously. Do we have to reconsider and how we will change ourselves to at least seriously consider these reports on boards and assess whether someone is satisfying their work or not and to show the citizens of Croatia and businesses that we can seriously bear the burden of responsibility of the Croatian parliamentary representative who must be able to assess the work of independent bodies or just send a message to independent bodies, regulatory bodies are still the ones controlled by the government, who will receive a review from the government, and we will only raise our hand. So I think this point of today's agenda shows how much our responsibility is not only for the energy market but how big our responsibility is that we are not able to do our job properly. Unfortunately, it is something that must not happen to us, which we must change in our practice and we must be far more responsible for the situation in Croatia, especially in the markets, to be better quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53474	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53475	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here, allow a brief replica of the esteemed representative Linic. Very simply, I agree with your findings that the price of electricity can destroy a serious economy and this is an important finding that has not been highlighted so far and has not been heard, particularly in the context of discussions about TLM, "Aluminium" and HEP. Responsible policy-making deserves special attention. It is known in the world that exactly the aluminium industry is the most sensitive and vulnerable to possible changes in electricity prices for a simple reason because the structure of the technological process of production of one tonne of aluminium is related to almost 1/3 of the cost of electricity consumed. And then what happens? And what happens then and what can happen in the world that at one point for different reasons LMI prices, means tons of aluminium on the world market falls by several times, and the price of electricity stays the same or slightly or slower changes. In such conditions, it may be the most logical decision, so there would be no debate and there would be no affair, as elsewhere in the world, electrolysis has closed down. They closed the electrolysis in Europe, the United States, Italy, and stopped producing primary aluminium. If we had done so in the Republic of Croatia, TLM would have shut down, the "Aluminium" would have been shut down, and HEP would have lost one major serious consumer that stabilized its energy balance. Therefore, serious discussions on serious energy issues deserve more attention and I would say perhaps more co-operation and understanding on the one hand and on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53476	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53477	I agree with my colleague, but these discussions in the Croatian Parliament needed HERA. Her job was to compare the Croatian market with the European market. And we know that on European markets there are special productions that have far lower tariffs than average tariffs. HERA should have initiated and insisted that such tariffs at HEP be secured and, if necessary, how to provide HEP with the necessary funds for further investments, not that we do not have any serious investments in HEP except the Lesca hydropower plant. And what I also want to say is, the SDP club has proposed to you to regulate prices especially for special consumers through VAT policy. Therefore, not only has HEP with different tariffs that HER had to take care of because she has to bring us into line with Europe, but the government has to run its policy, not with special contracts such as HEP and TLM, although I do not want to speak negatively about it, I do not want to. But I would like to say that it was generally necessary for certain VAT productions and with a far lower VAT of 22% somewhere from 5 to 10% to affect that special producers who need large quantities, and for Croatia, important production have a lower tariff. Unfortunately, neither government nor HERA, and that's something that falls on us because we don't, unfortunately, talk about such things in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53478	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53479	You tell your colleague not to invest enough in production, so you mention oil derivatives. Here's an example of what was behind the foreign capital and who regularly paid for the construction of an oil-exploitation platform in Mali Lamjana. The job got our company in an international RIG competition, and the business was done by cooperatives on more than a dozen companies that are now failing because the RIG didn't pay them off. Hundreds of people, hundreds and hundreds of people didn't get paid for the work they did. Now they're out of a job. Their companies are failing. Employers must fire them because these cooperatives are not paid by the RIG and the domestic company that received the tender. And what do strangers say? Well, we paid for everything. We were planning on making 7 platforms, but we're not gonna be dealing with you anymore. And here's an example, so that's what this is all about. The prime minister said this is a struggle for every job and nobody in this country is anything. However, this RIG has formed some other two companies with close individuals connected to it that have practically failed to do the job and received the majority of the money. But this is also an example of what foreigners and foreign investors who really want to invest here have healthy capital as they pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53480	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53481	I would not like to talk about I would say payment policy and responsibility to each other's obligations, because in Croatia, unfortunately, it is at a very low level and then we have a lot of victims especially employed and I would say serious investors. But what we also need to know is the problem of concessions. And those who work for the exploitation of oil and gas and those who work for the production of electricity get a good deal of concessions. This is a concession if they are not used should be taken away. We have a problem with Croatian production. Yet we have enough water, gas, we have something and oil, and it is evident that we have to do something in that section to drain all these quantities in Croatia. And that's the problem why we're not talking about the responsibilities of those who are in charge of production through concessions and we're not going to take the concession away. That's the problem. And of course, that moment is the biggest responsibility of HERA because it does not have enough resources, so we have not provided the necessary resources to invest in alternative sources, so we are far from the average of Europe by producing alternative sources. Guilt on guilt, but apparently for the Parliament, someone has to do it. And we really need a quality regulatory energy agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53482	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53483	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for a resolution was accepted by most votes, 78 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 14 against in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53484	We move to the next item - Proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the National Sports Council is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which proposed this decision on the basis of Article 4. Sports law. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Diana Vican. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53485	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The National Sports Council comes from the Sport Act. It consists of the president and 12 members of the National Council. The President and 6 members are appointed, adopted on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Three members on the proposal of the Croatian Olympic Committee, one member on the proposal of the Croatian Couple of Olympic Committee, one member on the proposal of the Croatian Sports Alliance of Deaf and one member on the proposal of the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb. The ministry has already issued its first public invitation to propose candidates in early 2007. For the sake of time, however, some of the candidates who made the first public call are no longer in office on the basis of which they were proposed, so the re-scheduling was decided in April 2009. On the basis of a public call from 8 May 2009, 26 candidates for the president arrived and 6 members of the first National Sports Council called. For the president of the first call of the National Sports Council, Danira Bilic is proposed. She graduated from the Faculty of Economics at the University of Zagreb. A basketball player has been celebrated. She was named Europe's best basketball player three times. She holds two silver medals from European championships, Olympic silver, world silver, three national championships, five national cups. The winner is the most state-run sport award in the Republic of Croatia, Franjo Bučar. She has won the trophy of the International Olympic Committee "Wife and Sport for Europe", she has been a representative in the Croatian Parliament since 2004, and since 2005, she has been a representative and vice-president at the City of Zagreb City Assembly, where she has also served as Vice-President of the Education and Sports Committee. For members of the Council are proposed: Marija Anzulovic, senior sports volleyball coach. A volleyball was celebrated in the period of '84. By 2001, she won a cup of champions of Europe, gold at Mediterranean games, 10 national championships, 7 national championships. The second member is Damir Poljak, a graduate lawyer, Secretary General of the Croatian Handball Union. During his term, many sports and organisational successes of the Croatian handball team, such as the 2003 world champions, world champions in 2005 and 2009, Olympic winners in 2004, Europe's first in 2008 and 2010, the European Men's Championships in 2000, the 2003 World Women's Championship organization, the 2009 World Men's Championship. Since 2006, he has been a member of the Executive Board of the European Handball Federation. The third member is Gordan Kozulj, graduated from the political economy at the University of Berkeley in California, the top athlete of the first category, the winner of many medals at the European championships of 3 gold, 5 silver and two bronze, at world championships one gold, one silver medal, European ice-style swimming record player in the 100m discipline, the world's rock-style record player at 200m, participated in four Olympics, was decorated in the order of Danica Croatia with a picture of Franjo Bučar, and the highest state sport award in Croatia, Franjo Bučar. The fourth is Ratko Rudic, senior sports coach, Croatia's most trophy water polo coach, the only water polo coach in the world who won the world's title with three different teams, and the only one who won the medals four times in a row at the Olympic Games. He won three Olympic gold, Olympic bronze, three gold at world championships, two European gold, two European silver, two silver on world cups, and many other medals in major international competitions. He is the winner of Croatia's largest national sport award Franjo Bučar. He's a member of a famous home in swimming sports. Peti is Valentin Bareshić, doctor of science, senior lecturer at the Faculty of Kinesiology at the University of Zagreb, author and co-author of important scientific and professional works in the field of football. And the seventh Zoran Primorac, an excuse sixth, a member of Zoran Primorac, a senior sports coach, a first-class athlete, a celebrated table player, a participant in six Olympic games, a silver medal winner at the Olympic games in pairs, twice the winner of gold medals at world cups, three times silver and three times bronze at world championships, a double champion of Europe, five times silver at European championships, and a winner of 8 bronze medals at European championships, and many other medals at major international competitions. The vice president of the Croatian Tsenotenski Federation from 2004 to 2006, the chairman of the World Tsenotenski Federation Commission, and the chairman of the Management Board of the Croatian Olympic Club. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports shall comply with Article 4. The Law on Sports also adopted the proposals of the Croatian Olympic Committee proposed by the Master of Science Zlatka Matešu, Antun Vrdoljak, and Slavka Goluž. The Croatian Paralympic Committee proposed Ratko Kovačić, the Croatian Sports Association of the Deaf proposed the Master of Science Slavko Podgorec, and the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb was proposed by Professor of the Doctors of Science Dragan Milanović. The National Sports Council in this composition we believe with all these references from members of sports and public reputation merits your support as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53486	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ Club, Mr... Water polo alliance Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the promoter, esteemed fellow MPs. Let me at first as a parliamentary representative, but even more as a athlete express my exceptional satisfaction that we, I would say finally at the tables get a proposal to set up and select members of the National Sports Council. Which is why we at the HDZ Club think it's very important, even in these times when the whole state is dealing with a series of serious economic and social issues and problems. So precisely because the Government has recognised and confirmed the importance and role of sport by proposing the formation of the National Sports Council, thus allowing for the creation of preconditions for the resolution of accumulated problems in sport, starting with the system of financing sports, sports, schools, and universities, recreational sport, to the survival of top sports, sports facilities, etc. As much as a principle sport has the support of all of us I think it is important to once again emphasize the importance of sport because sport is too important to be left to improvise or to find individuals. I will list just some of the reasons why the establishment of the National Sports Council is of great importance for sports and athletes, and from which all of us who are in any way connected to sports are very much expected. So hundreds of thousands of people were involved in sports directly with recreational or professional sport, and in millions it was directly related to sport, either through sports events on sports sites, whether through media, television or the like. Sport takes up at least 20 percent of the media's space, whether written, radio or TV transmissions. I think it would be... do one study on the importance of sports competitions and events, for example for hotel, restaurant, tourist agency work or road and air traffic. [[You don't understand.]] I also don't think it should be particularly stressed that the greatest impact on the health of the population has a long-term and systematic sport. Yesterday, for example, we had an opportunity to hear how much huge resources are being spent on drugs and it would be important and valuable to get information as many young people who are involved in sports, how much they save in healthcare just by active sports. Sport is also the best way to involve people with disabilities in everyday life. Sport, especially among young people, plays a huge role in education, self - confidence, and self - faith. Sports is the best means to fight all sorts of addictions, meaning tobacco, alcohol, drugs and the like, and sport is that we see best by investing in sports from the world's greatest forces to small countries and also the best and most successful promotion, both cities and regions, so especially nations and states. We can, of course, continue on the role and importance of sport in general in tourism, economics, health care, etc., but also on the connection of top sports, and mass sports with sport of children and young people. All listed are the facts that we all know well, but unfortunately we are not thinking enough about all these positive effects of sport, and in particular that the results in sport are, and here I least think about the sports results themselves, so that these positive effects of sport do not happen on their own but that a system is necessary, a care of sport in all segments. According to its definition, the National Sports Council is the most professional body to care for the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia. It discusses issues of importance for sport, and encourages and proposes measures to improve sports. It also gives an opinion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the draft proposal for a national sport programme. This programme should work as a 8-year programme as a document setting out the objectives and tasks of sport development, identifying the activities necessary for the implementation of these objectives and tasks. The holders of the tasks and the control of its implementation shall be determined. What's crucial... The National Programme of Sports is under the number one programme to create conditions for sports in the education system, the programme to create conditions for achieving the top results of Croatian athletes in international competitions, as well as for creating conditions for recreational sports activities to improve citizens' health. Furthermore, the National Council also determines priority projects and designs and studies for their funding in the system of public needs in sport. It sets out guidelines for the making of rules on the categorization of athletes. It gives an opinion on training programmes for professional sports work and sets out the conditions that must be met by institutions for training staff in sport. It sets out guidelines for the development of rules relating to the construction and categorisation of sports buildings at the state level, gives an opinion and recommendations on draft rules relating to sport, delivers an opinion on the draft network of sports buildings, etc. From all this, I think the importance of the National Sports Council is clear, and I hope it will have full support from both governments and ministries, but all of us in the Parliament are doing their homework. So here are a few sentences on the proposed members of the National Council as we heard from the motionor, from the State Secretary, i.e. the President and members of the Sports Council pursuant to Article 4. The law on sport is appointed by the Croatian Parliament. Both presidents and 6 members on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, three members of the proposal of the Croatian Olympic Committee, one member of the proposal of the Croatian Paralympic Committee, one member of the proposal of the Croatian Sports Federation of Deaf and one member of the Chinese Faculty of University of Zagreb. I personally know all of the above-mentioned members well, and I must express my satisfaction and with the suggestion that for the President of the Council Danira Bilić, who was proposed, I personally know her from the same town, means as a athlete, but also after her sports career she acted on a number of functions where she demonstrated professionality but also discreetly correct knowledge. I think it's a great choice for the president of this council. But all the other candidates who dedicated their lives to sports, each in their own circle achieved envious successes and results, so I am convinced that we will finally get a body that will have both powers and opportunities and, of course, knowledge and ability to care for all the necessary segments of development and progress of sports in Croatia. Finally, I am convinced that we will agree that there are very few events that can at the moment trigger a nation such as sports results, both individuals and our national selections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53488	Thank you. SDP club Mrs. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53489	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. Finally, for this Decision, the Law on Sports, which is the basis of which we appoint this National Sports Council, came into force at the end of June 2006 so almost 4 years ago. Under that law, the National Sports Council was to be appointed within nine months of the adoption of the Law, and our promoters were only a little less in three and a half years in proposing this body. I agree with my colleague, Bukic, that it is a very important body that plays a very important role and I think that here in the House we deserve the answer of the promoters why is the so-called so important body that has a very important task more than three years late? As a representative in early 2008 I referred a parliamentary question to this topic to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, and we received the answer that the appointment had not just happened, it took about two years, so we first asked the SDP to answer why it took three and a half years for it to come to the proposal to appoint a president and members of the National Sports Council, or why the Law had not been respected so far. It is also not the only decision that should have been made under the Law on Sports, many other decisions that had to be made a few years ago were not made, for example, a network of sports buildings, and if we had and had made them within which it had to be made in the Croatian Parliament, then a number of objections, government regulations, we would not have had special decisions when we built halls for the World Handball Championship. So there's a lot more trouble than this is just a formal decision. Unfortunately, this decision has formal shortcomings. According to Article 91 of the Sport Act itself, in the first appointment of the National Sports Council, and this is the first appointment, we have to decide which six members are elected for a period of 2 years, which 6 in a period of 4 years, there is no such decision, and therefore we cannot vote this decision because it is contrary to the Law, we have to get in some way an answer which of these 12 applicants will be appointed to 6 and which at 12 years. One of the perhaps more important roles of the National Sports Council is to adopt, i.e. to give an opinion, to play a very important role in the adoption of a sport programme that should actually be a key document that sets goals and tasks primarily developed in sport activities. That is, the holders, which are financial resources, and on the other hand, which are guidelines for bringing public needs into sport. Of course, the National Sport Programme, although the Government should have proposed it to us in the Croatian Parliament a long time ago, not only did it not propose it and we didn't bring it, but it seems to me that it's not working at all, and then I don't speak every year at the adoption of the State budget, too, according to the Law on Sports, we have to bring a public need programme in a sport that, despite what we passed four years ago, despite the fact that we had four budgets ever since. Such a relationship with the implementation of the Sport Act actually shows that, on the one hand, apart from one small visible part of the sport, which is mostly about men's football that can't be praised for neither the results nor the special sports manners, in fact, we, or the Government, don't particularly care about the development of that healthy part of sport. Mostly recreational sport, primarily that sport that is not necessary in professional categories, which is the only sport that affects and can positively affect health. Personally, and I believe colleagues who have professionally or less professionally engaged in sports know that it is actually professional sport that makes people disabled, and that it is actually the only recreational sport that makes people healthier. And that should be the priority and work of this council somewhere, as well as the National Sport Programme itself. Therefore, I hope that somewhere in the State Secretary's presentation, the answers to these questions will be answered. Given that I think we can agree that the key, in fact, goal of developing sports and what sports in Croatia should be is to be sport of children, sport of youth, sport of women, recreational sport for health and that it must be a priority. Financial, media, professional and all sorts of different. As long as such a national programme does not have any commercial interest in the sense that it is interested in both advertisers and media will not be voted in such a way here in the Parliament and will have confirmation and support, so to speak, politics that it can be opened in daily life. We'll still have that "Sport Against Health" and "All Sports" parol as well as many unimplemented things from the Sport Act itself. Despite their long time ago, they should have been spent a long time ago. And perhaps at the very end, but not least, this decision to appoint the president and members of the National Sports Council is contrary to the Law on Gender Equality, it is commendable that we finally have one body to be chaired by a woman of top sportswoman, but under that law every body appointed by the Croatian Parliament must have at least 40% of each sex. In the SDP, it seems to us that this is particularly important for sport, especially in that part of the positive impact that sport can have on women's health in particular. So, the decision has a lot of serious problems. For us in the SDP, many names on this list are not disputed and in that sense, if the corrections of this kind of negativity can be supported by pure hearts. Although we would prefer, especially in this area where the promoters of another institution past the Government have seen persons who have also stood out in amateur sports, persons who may be younger and more productive, more innovative in terms of developing sports all from the very goal of actually being the National Sports Council as the most professional body performs work and proactively, not only professionally and not only formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53490	Thank you. The club of representatives of HNS and HSU, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53491	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. After the presentation of my colleague, Lugaric will significantly shorten his exposure to the HNS and HSU clubs. Let me just remind you that we brought the Sport Act in this House in 2006, that in May last year we opened a tender for members of the National Council and that this year we received these proposals on the benches. I don't think there's much to comment on, but I'd like to ask you a question as a university professor for your professional deformation. I'm going to set it up by the hardware system where we offer students five answers and they have an obligation to round up what they consider to be correct. So here's what that one single question looks like that I'm going to end up with. The first available answer – The government quickly opened a tender under the Sport Act. The other proposed answer – The Government and the Croatian Parliament have thus shown concern for effective law enforcement. The third proposed answer – The Government and the Croatian Parliament show special concern for sport. The fourth proposed answer – according to the election of the president and members of the National Council, we did not allow politics to involve its fingers in sport. And the fifth of the five possible answers offered – the proposed athletes deserve to be members of the National Council and correctly represent different sports. My colleagues and colleagues, regardless of what issue you have rounded as exactly the Croatian People's Party, i.e. the HNS and HSU club, will support this bill because sport gets a score of 5, but a policy assessment of 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53492	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Doric, asked five questions that no one can answer correctly. I must admit that I am terribly surprised by this proposal in the appointment of the president and members of the National Sports Council. And now I'm going to explain my surprise. The proposal for appointing shall be referred to Article 4(1). Sports law. The law was published in "The People's News" on 28 June 2006. According to Art. 3. the appointment of this Council was due by 6 January 2007. I repeat, the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to propose the appointment of this council by 6 January 2007. If we in Međimurje have an exact calendar now May 2010. On November 24, 2009, I asked the Minister of Resorza one parliamentary question. When will he propose to appoint members of the National Council and when will the National Programme of Sports be proposed and adopted, which is the most important document for the implementation of the Sport Act? I assume that someone sitting on behalf of the Government here took part in the reply, and it was written on December 30, 2009, so the day before the old year and let me quote what Minister Radovan Fuchs said to me. So, I ask him, when will he propose a council appointment? And the minister writes to me: "Further, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3. The Law on Sports The National Sports Council is the most professional body that provides for the development and quality of sport in the Republic of Croatia, discusses issues of importance for sport and proposes and encourages the adoption of measures to improve sport. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of the same law, the National Sport Council for Sport has a president and 12 members appointed and dismissed by the Croatian Parliament and the President and 6 members on a proposal from the Government, 3 members on a proposal from the Olympic Committee, one member on a proposal from the Croatian Paralympic Committee, one member on a proposal from the Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf and one member on a proposal from the Faculty of Kinesiology... the same in Zagreb." Otherwise, I did not know it because I am illiterate and I do not know how to read the law, and the minister continues with the therapy that I quote: "Because it is the highest professional body that cares about the development, quality and improvement of sports in the Republic of Croatia, the choice of body members is a demanding process of exceptional importance for further development of sports. And after all the applicants overlooked by the said provision of the Sport Act choose candidates for appointment to the National Sports Council, their appointment to the Croatian Assembly will be proposed." Since 28 June 2006, this extremely important body for sport in the Republic of Croatia could not be named because all those legally authorised applicants, it was such a demanding process that by May 2010, they could not propose 12 people. And you know why this National Council is still important? To adopt the National Programme for Sports, whose adoption expired in 2007 if I am not mistaken in April of the month. After such a rude response by the minister who quotes legal provisions to me, I asked an additional question. And the propos answer to the first question didn't come within the business period but it doesn't concern anyone either in the government or in the Parliament. and on 17 March 2010, I get an answer to an additional question signed by the same Minister Fuchs. I am failing to quote legal provisions, stressing the importance of the national council and major concerns of the government, especially people employed in the ministry who are involved in the development of sports and are therefore getting paid, that they have succeeded in launching the appointment process. So it was written in mid-March and so quickly went the process that you came here in May with a proposal to appoint members of the National Council. I will not say anything about the members, because however we warn about the problem of sports in Croatia from all aspects, it turns out that it is politicizing, because football can only be spoken of by Markovic and Srebric,... sport only the president of the Olympic Committee, and we are all other diletaries. The only thing we have to approve of is the money from the state budget and pay hundreds and thousands of special forces to make order in Maxime when there are 400 viewers, then there are a thousand special forces. But let's put it aside. In these same questions, I asked Minister Fuchs, when will the Government propose to the National Sport Programme? The Law on Sports was passed in 2006, the deadline for the adoption of the programme was 9 months. Without a national programme and this council, 60% of the Sport Act is inconclusive. The biggest lumen, find him, the existing Sport Act cannot be implemented. This was said here when the law and then the minister proposed the law and every criticism of that law was declared by an attack on the government and a minister who was very good when he was a HDZ member, when he left HDZ he became a scissor. Now tell me, Madam and Mr. Government, where's the National Sports Program? Where's the national program, because without a national programme, this council doesn't make sense. What are they gonna do? Pick up journals and cost-creation. Where's the national program? June 2006 Law, deadline 9 months. And in the future, let me give you a decision that Mr. Shakespeare would certainly whisper to you. When you cannot implement something within the legal time limit, then it is not your right to write to the parliamentary representative that it is a very demanding process that takes a long time, but when you screw up and do not implement the law, you suggest amending or supplementing an article of the law that speaks of implementing actions and extend the appointment deadlines of councils, the adoption of a national programme. Then it would be correct that you wrote this reply to the Minister, that you advised the Minister to propose amendments to the Law on Sports and to extend the deadlines for the appointment of this council and the deadlines for the adoption of the National Programme. You didn't do that. You're in a major offense because since April 2007, you don't have a National Programme on Sports and should have been proposed to this House. If you do not know how to write a bill supplementing the deadlines, and the deadlines are written by the Government and not by the Parliament, the Government has proposed such a law, I will without any compensation make you text of the Sport Act to extend your deadlines, so in the next law you have a deadline to appoint members of the Council for 10 years, and for the adoption of a national programme for 19 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53494	Thank you. Here's a proposal in the mission of goodwill for Mr. Representative. My colleagues, Ingrid, it's not gonna be nadryping, is it? ... You weren't focused on the discussion of your fellow Lesars I see because this one seems to sound like you haven't been listening very carefully to the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53495	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the promoter, esteemed fellow MPs. I'll start by commenting on my colleagues. The fact is, you have all pointed out, that it is late with and compared to the Law on Sports is late with the establishment of this National Council, but I did expect to say which sentence of the really real importance of sport, the importance of this National Council and those problems affecting sports in Croatia. We received information that top athletes, where I consider myself to be called disabled, that the only active and real way to deal with sports is recreational, which is a terrible message from my colleague Lugaric. As metaphorical as it should have been, I think you should be careful with that kind of communication. The top sport, of course, has its injuries in certain individual cases, but generally to call top athletes and even to practice top-notch sports to lead to disability, I think it's absolutely inappropriate. On behalf of the club, I listed all the reasons, I hope we heard them, which is why the sport said I would be too important and the importance of establishing a national sports council, while in this individual address I would like to emphasise that the establishment of this council happens at times when the status of sport is almost compromised in all its forms. Out of the problems of funding national alliances, sports clubs and associations which are holders of both mass and quality, investing in individual sports, public sports status and media where, unfortunately, negative inscriptions and comments dominate, where they can hardly remember any positive reports, interviews or reports. About that, I don't know if he's familiar with the situation that he's like. Croatian broadcasting unilaterally broke the sponsorship contract with the Croatian Olympic Committee. So, the question of sports status and in the media, I think it's extremely important. I will repeat because I think it is important to highlight, sport given the importance and importance deserves more care and attention and, of course, a better overall status in society. I will take this opportunity and thank the Prime Minister for the understanding of the sport that is being explored and in this act of the initiative to set up a National Sports Council, but also in the direct engagement and resolution of acute problems in sport, it was the case of problems related to the organisation of the European Waterpol Championship which I personally witnessed or engaged in proposing measures related to the prevention of riots at sports sites or such. Of course, by the act of establishing this national sport council at the very beginning of the road, we are creating a legal and organisational framework for all that is needed in order to look forward to the successes of Croatian athletes in the biggest sports competitions in the future. There are open issues that will have to be addressed by this national sports council. I'll name just some of the most pronounced, most important. So the status of the sport. I think he'll... You need to answer the question of how appropriate sport is in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the first place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, wouldn't sport deserve if not an independent ministry that at least the state sports administration with the secretary of state who will attend the cabinet's sessions with several assistants who will take care of sports by segments, from the financial section, school, high school, recreational sports, top sports, assistants who will be in charge of creating a network of sports facilities and so on. Also, such a administration would have its own budget unit which we know would help the status and address the problem of sport financing. The key issue in the survival and development of sports is precisely the systematic financing of sports. In particular, how planned it is to be, for example, Sports and national alliances finance only a small part of the system, and over 70% of the financial needs of these alliances are left to the individual. I will be even more concrete, how planned it is, for example, that the financing of the Croatian Waterpolski Alliance depends on my personal engagement in politics and, of course, on the amount of funds I will or will not be able to raise. Similar is the situation and funding of recreational and school sports. Aren't these national alliances the interests of the state, of society, of all of us? The location of clubs in the sports system. Even by following the sport on the surface, we cannot miss how much the current crisis has affected financial and therefore closely related to organisational problems in alliances and clubs. How many clubs are ahead of the shut-down, bankruptcy. I must stress that just the clubs are the foundation on which the whole sport rests. Clubs create players and individual sports also competitors, care about raising all age categories, play a key role in all stages of growing up these young people. Clubs are also a nursery of players where we get from and national teams to drag quality. This is precisely the reason for the need to create new legislative proposals that will continue to enable clubs and better status and survival in the system of financing cities and municipalities. Compensation... Athletes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are one of the few countries in an environment that has not systematically solved this problem. Namely, this is about athletes who won Olympic medals, achieved as much as they could in sport at all, and that this achievement was not valued through any material security, related to the existential problem of most such athletes, but also a fair fee or reward for achieved. It is quite wrong to watch this through the prism of several successful athletes from richer sports when we know that such results, so Olympic medals were won mostly by athletes from less attractive sports. And for the sake of the public, such athletes are a total of 90 in Croatia. A particularly valuable effect of such a fee would also have as a visual motive for performing in the team of young athletes who are just coming, but also as a motive for already affirmed athletes. I am convinced, for example, that Damir Bujic would never consider leaving the Croatian team if such a provision on the fees of the most successful athletes were in place. This, but also a whole series of other topics and problems will be found on the table of this sports council and I am confident with the full support of the government, the Prime Minister and its associates, the ministry, but also all of us in the Parliament, that we will find the best and best-quality solutions to the problems that really burden sports in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53496	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53497	Dear colleague Bukic, I ask you not to abuse or twist what I said here in accordance with some kind of sports ethics. So, speaking of the importance of recreational sport to improve the health of individuals and then nations that occur in one mass sphere, as a comparison, I used that actually most professional athletes who are seriously engaged in sports have a serious health problem starting with the president of the National, proposed National Sports Council president and beyond. Secondly, although I can agree with most of your discussion and sign it, I hope you're aware of what you said. You said the financing of the water polo alliance depends, in fact, on your involvement in politics and on whether or not you will succeed as a parliamentary representative. So you actually disproved the initial thesis with which you started, which is actually the thanks where you say it seems very much, that it actually works very well that the system doesn't work at all, especially if it's dependent on political and politically-like individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53498	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53499	Well, here's what you've repeated, so most top athletes have serious health problems, which is absolutely, absolutely incorrect, and I don't know where you get that information from. And again, in a way, you're talking in an ugly way about generally top athletes, i.e. doing top-notch sports, which is a locomotive of all sports and all these young people who are at all engaged in sports right now because of top-notch sports and proof of how many new kids are after the success of the Croatian handball team, for example, how many hundreds of thousands of children start to deal with handball, how much after some of the titles of the new kids start to deal with water polo, etc. Therefore, top-notch sport is closely tied to mass sports, with sport of young people who must have their own role models in sports they are engaged in. I've listed here a personal exposure problem that is present in sports. It's no contradiction. So we're not happy with the sports funding system. Unfortunately, it depends on finding individuals. And the national alliances I think absolutely need to separate the funding of national alliances from the financing of clubs, because these are quite two different stories and I think that the National Council really has one big job to bring all of this into one order and make one system in which to know exactly who and how to finance national alliances, clubs, recreational sport, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53500	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bukvic, you said you expected us to say more in favour of the importance of the National Council. I just want to remind you that we did this four years ago strongly supported this law. That's why it's so bad that we haven't spent it in four years, you know. It's really very wrong for me, and don't blame me for acting atypically. It's just to say that we here as law-making people should be the first to stand up for both their implementation and their implementation. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53502	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53503	Of course it's not a dispute that we all wish it was before. Minister Fuchs has given his explanation, I think he's been reacting on an up-and-coming basis ever since he was a minister. However, I have just said my criticism that in three exposures to you, my colleagues the only, the main topic was the delay in this proposal of adopting members of the National Sports Council. Much less the other part that I really think should get into all of us's ear how important sports are and how much sport really has a problem this National Council is going to have to deal with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53504	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. So I listened closely to the debate on this agenda point and the appointment of the president and six members and members of the National Sports Council, as we wish to call it. And I am pleased that colleagues who are top athletes like Bukic, there is also colleague Vedran Rožić and other athletes today in the Croatian Parliament want to present the importance of this Council, which is being appointed today, which in a few days, we will probably name on Friday. I would like to say that sometimes with us it happens that, of course, democratic and allowed in the Croatian Parliament to report for word and talk about all points and discuss and propose etc. But sometimes the pots get mixed up, so the war is talked about by the one who's never been participated in it, about some important things, and also about the sport that's a little less familiar with that branch. I shall make a statement which is not spoken by my predecessors, which is that when the first National Sports Council is appointed, in accordance with Article 91(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law of the Croatian Parliament appoints all 12 members in such a way as to decide which members of 6 of them will have a two-and-four-year term, respectively. I don't think it was said here in the debates. Following this, we will repeat that Danira Nakic has been proposed for the President of the Council. In one text is Bilic, in one Nakic. But it doesn't matter. We know who it is, the prominent Croatian athlete from basketball sport, and for members of the Council are the following: Marija Anzulović, Damir Poljak, Gordan Kozulj, Ratko Rudić, Valentin Barišić and Zoran Primorac. On the basis of a public call from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, also in accordance with Article 4. The laws proposed: The Croatian Olympic Committee proposed Ratko Kovacic. The Croatian sports alliance of the deaf was proposed by Mr Slavko Podgorec. The Faculty of Kinesiology in Zagreb was proposed by Prof. Dr. Damjan Milanović, and the Croatian Olympic Committee Zlatka Matešu, Antun Vrdoljak and prominent athlete Slavka Goluž. I just want to say that when all these names are looked at, that the choice by me is of great quality and good not only when it comes to the president as here in the resume and the promoter pointed out, but here are the participated former athletes, sports pedagogues and, of course, when it comes to science and here I see in the persons of Prof. Dr. Valentina Barisic and professor of Dr Dragan Milanović, who are employees of the Faculty of Kinesiology of University of Zagreb, and of course Professor Milanović that he was the Rector of Zagreb University who devoted their life calls to sports, athletes and sports sciences, I would say about that, I think that's a good way to play them here. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully support this proposal and I want a lot of success in the work of the National Sports Council and, of course, that our sport, which in the days of the creation of the Republic of Croatia, and then in one good light and atmosphere, presented the Republic of Croatia throughout Europe and the world. And let me, I want success in the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53506	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53507	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, fellow MPs and MPs. Well, here's a former athlete, just as my colleague is glad and in some ways we can be happy even though perhaps with a little delay and welcome this decision to appoint the president and members of the National Sports Council. In fact, this council will have quite a lot of powers, because finally in one place as all representatives and the Olympic Committee and the university have gathered together, all relevant participants in Croatian sport will find themselves in one place, and as a colleague mentioned earlier, the National Council will have one task to finally solve what is extremely important for sports and all athletes financing Croatian sport, because in this past period all of these results, both by clubs and individual competitors and by the team, I think it is one of the major talents of Croatian athletes, rather than what is the organisation of all our sports alliances and Olympic committees themselves. I do not normally underestimate their work, but it is extremely important how my colleague Bukic mentioned systematically resolving the financing of Croatian sport. Because here we see especially now this will be seen in these crisis recession times, where the functioning and competition of individual leagues will be at stake. And I think this is exactly what the National Council is going to raise that question and to regulate sports funding through the state budget as well. Because the practice of sports, whether amateur or professional, is extremely important for the health of the entire nation, and I am sorry that my colleague Lugaric left, that he mentioned earlier that the top sport produces disabled people in our society. Dealing with sports and amateur and top-notch risks and the health of these athletes, however, if you looked at the percentages you would see far away, far away that the higher percentage of disability in people who had never engaged in sports, but those who were active sports, and especially in professional sports. Here and finally, once again, I would give full support to the establishment of this National Committee. I believe that these names, all of which are prominent participants in sports, in the last 20 years, will also be a guarantee that after this establishment and sport, they will play an even more important role in our society and that the financing of Croatian sport will finally be even more represented when the next state budget is being adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53508	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Personally, I would like to have a lot more discussion about a topic such as sport, whether we are engaged in sports or not, whether we were in professional sports or we have opportunities to work in the context of amateur sports, and I would disagree with my colleague Djurdjevic that it turns out to be about sports, and even then other topics should only be talked about by those who understand it very much, i.e. who have possibly dealt with it or are still dealing with it. I want to say it like this right away. The National Council, which this Parliament will elect to lead with the president, will not change much or, I say, will not change anything unless we get an answer from the competent ministry today whether the National Sport Programme is in preparation, because the National Programme is not in the domain of the task and the construction of the National Council. It only gives an opinion on this National Programme that we should adopt here in the Croatian Parliament. I really don't want to live in the illusion that after we choose the National Council we will practically solve all the accumulated problems that weigh and the field of sport. And fellow Bukic, I would almost fully sign your debate. You've properly listed all the problems we have today in sports in our society and because of irresponsibility, sloppyness, sports, I'd say that in the seal somewhere on the side. This is something that the government has not dealt with in this Croatia. And when you mention the Prime Minister, but I'd like to remind all of us that this Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, until a year ago, a little less days ago, was the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of social activities. That means, I'd say, there was the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports in her portfolio, so I'm asking this question and the current Prime Minister how come we've been waiting 3.5 years for this National Council proposal? And I'm also asking how much longer we're going to wait for a proposal from the National Sport Programme that should come into these constituency benches? You're right fellow, the system when it comes to sports doesn't work. Too much politics is involved in sports, in different sports branches. And then depending on what position you're in or which politicians you know or which politicians you have in your own boards of directors, and I don't know what, depending on which, you could possibly expect some money from the Treasury. Not to mention, now here, that a completely non-transparent sport was financed, i.e. different branches of sport, so our, among other things, public state-owned companies, funded and provided huge money not only for individual teams but also for individual clubs. And we who are engaged in amateur sports could tell here a story about how and how individual clubs survive today, especially when it comes to a sport that is almost unacquainted in Croatia, such as women's football compared to one male football. With this vote of the National Council, absolutely nothing will change in Croatia. And when we talk about the composition of the National Council, of course, I didn't expect the government to state the reasons why it's been waiting 3.5 years to come with a proposal for the National Council's composition. And I will make an observation and say, fellow MPs and MPs, that it would be time for the Government, and then this Croatian Parliament in practice applies the laws it votes. If we have said in the Law on Gender Equality that no body appointed should be less than 40% of one sex, or another sex, then I see no reason why again and today almost 2 years after we have passed a new Law on Gender Equality we get this proposal. What I'm saying right now does not diminish the importance of achieving each of these individuals individually who are proposed to this National Council because each of them in their own way is top-notch, made a top-of-the-line contribution to individual sports. But Mr. Vice President, I remember when you were President of the Parliament in the last term, so I'll remind the vast majority of you that in one case and return the proposal to the Government of the National Council of Health when we agreed all together that it cannot be tolerated that in such a single National Council there is not enough involved, at least approximately equal number of women and men. And otherwise, when it comes to women in sports, it's a special story. A special Commission for Women's Sports has been formed around the Croatian Olympic Committee for about a year and a half. Unfortunately, I would say that the overall situation, i.e. the perception of women who are engaged in sports and in Croatia, is not very bright. After all, read all together, I believe that most of you are, the prosecutor's report on gender equality, which has shown in a way and how, among other things, the media treats women's problems in sports. By the way, speaking of the media, I'd like to mention public television. I find it absolutely inadmissible to completely ignore, and favouring only certain sports. And once again, I'm going to mention here the problem of beer commercials that are related to individual sports. That's what I was talking about when we had a debate here about the Law on the Reversing of Disturbation in Sports Stadiums. I will conclude my debate, unfortunately I know that no one will answer because for 3.5 years we haven't been able to spend the key, I would say, parts of the Sport Act, which is the appointment of the National Sports Council, i.e. the proposal and adoption of the National Sport Programme. But we may at least get some kind of overexplanation by believing that we will soon have opportunities in the Assembly to discuss also some positive things and suggestions when it comes to sports, not just when it comes to riots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53510	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53511	Well, here's the answer I wouldn't agree with my colleague Sobol that politics should be out of sports. On the contrary, I believe that politics must be as much involved in sport as possible, in sports alliances because we have seen this for the last 20 years, the creation of our country that politics has had a lot of influence both in sports alliances and in the organization of sport itself in our country. Maybe at some point, I wouldn't want to mention years now when it was politically decided to move politics out of the sport, that then the problems in certain sports started. So I believe that politics must be included in sports and the Olympic Committee and alliances, and most of all must be included through our discussions where, as I mentioned in my debate, where everyone would choose to make as much money as possible in the state budget for sport. In addition, the public is very much following us in the Parliament by sending our own sport message to the public and we can practically promote certain new sports branches in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53512	Thank you. Replication response, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53513	I am aware that we cannot completely throw politics out of the sport, but the negative influence of politics as is manifested today and through this favouring only certain sports, I find it inadmissible and that as a society we cannot allow. Because then it is seen through different funding channels through the construction of sports buildings that later we all pay for their minuses and then we find that some other sport does not have the right conditions to maintain a European championship if I am not mistaken, so now I remember the issue of Arena in Zagreb, but also any hall that was built for the needs of the handball championship. Therefore, non-transparent funding for various channels and what is said to be higher will have a greater impact and will in its own way push through and favour certain content, while completely neglecting and completely forgetting one basic fact of which perhaps we should have talked more together today, and that is, how much does Croatia's citizens do sports in a recreational sense? Or we'll continue to think about sports mostly less with spring days, when we start thinking about how we're going to be the next summer, which I find absolutely inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53514	And Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53515	You fellow Sobol have expressed hope that you will get too much explanation why only now. I got it. Last December 30th, last year, the government asked me why until April 6, 2007. The Parliament is not affected by the national programme, but it has really been over-explanatory, I will quote: "The following national sport programme is defined as a document setting out the objectives and tasks of the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia, the activities of the need for implementation, objectives, tasks, determines the holders of development, and the measures to control its implementation." Why isn't he here? Be careful now: "The reason for the duration of the process of producing the National Programme for Sport can be found in the fact that it is an extremely complex document of great importance for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia, which includes a large number of participants from state bodies to sports alliances, the National Sports Alliance, and the Croatian Olympic Committee". Too much explanation why the program did not write can be found or you need to look along with me in the fact that it is a very complex document.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53516	Answer to the replica of Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53517	Comrade Lesar, you have read the answer you received from the ministry, unfortunately I will tell you and me, and it is clear to everyone that the fact is not that it is a very complex programme, because in this country there are X-rays of other complex programs, some of them are still made in time. I will only point out once again that it is because of the irresponsibility of the competent ministry, but also by the government as a whole that the laws that we have adopted here, the deadlines that we have set for the government to correct myself through the proposal of the Sport Act, are not respected and not able to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53518	Final review by Secretary of State Diana Vican. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53519	Respect for the law is at the price of all democratic countries and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, in the complexity of the true complexity of all affairs, has come to this degree. And I wasn't a bit of a wingman in my report, so I can repeat myself that in 2007, he called a public call because he could read articles in the law because he knew what job they were waiting for, events that were in the selection of candidates, giving up candidates, changing the jobs of these candidates, we're not guilty. What we are seeking and what we would actually support in this very democratic maturity and not only respect for the law, by reading and by the dates and by the timers that they have given, but we will continue to organize these things by consensus. Therefore, I do not recall that the members who are proposed come from different sports, that the Regulation to be made should be done on the basis of 84 different sports etc. Research has shown where differences are greater that these differences need to be reduced slowly because there may be a difference in opinions, in missions themselves, in objectives and criticism we take but also an excuse that I said at first again. As for the election of women, the application of candidates, or candidate for president and 6 members of the first call of the National Sports Council, we had 26 applications. Of those 26 reports, there are three women. So the choice was made in the best possible way. When will the government propose a national sport programme? I answer that the national sport programme is in preparation, and will be delivered when this National Council, which we hope you will support, has given its opinion on the proposal of the National Sport Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53520	Thank you. One correction by Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53521	Thank you. It is an incorrect assumption that nothing could be done when it comes to the number of women. But Madam Secretary of State, the Law on Gender Equality knows something called special measures that serve exactly as an instrument and then also to the Government. Both the government and all the competent ministries should know well that they can intervene in certain proposals until certain laws are complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53522	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53523	We are going to vote on other points of the agenda. Thank you. We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President and members of the National Sports Council. The debate is closed. I stress that the provision of Article 91 is. The law on sport has been found that during the appointment of the first National Sports Council, the Croatian Parliament appoints all 12 members of the National Council, and the draw decides which six council members will have a mandate of two years, while the remaining 6 members will have a mandate of 4 years. In accordance with the provisions of the cited law, in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the National Sports Council. Here's the thing. The President of the National Sports Council, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is named Danira Bilic. Secondly, members of the National Sports Council on the proposal of the Government of Croatia are named Marijan Zulovic for a term of four years, Damir Poljak for a term of four years, Gordan Kozulj for a term of four years, Ratko Rudic for a term of four years, Dr Valentin Barisic for a term of four years, Zoran Primorac for a term of 2 years. Members of the National Sports Council on the proposal of the Croatian Olympic Committee are named Master Zlatko Mateša for the term of office of 2 years, Antun Vrdoljak for the term of office of 2 years, Slavko Goluža for the term of office of 4 years. A member of the National Sports Council on the proposal of the Croatian Olympic Committee is named Ratko Kovacic for a term of office of 2 years. And members of the National Sports Council on the proposal of the Croatian Sports Federation of the Deaf are named Slavko Podgorec for a term of office of 2 years, and a member of the National Sports Council at the University of Zagreb Faculty of Kinesiology is appointed Professor Dragan Milanović for a term of office of 2 years. Please, let's get involved and vote. Opening debate There's no discussion, there's what it is, what it's all about. ... [[No discussion.]] Please, let's get involved and vote on this proposal. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We've concluded that the Board of Appointing executes the jiggling and that's what it was. You're welcome to vote. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53524	The Wrath has made racist statements in this assembly Wretch. ... [[/Intruder: Who?]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53525	Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal accepted 86 votes for, 6 abstentions and 3 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53526	We will now conduct a united debate on - Final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 541 - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 542 - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 543 The debate was conducted by relevant Committees on Law, Health and Social Care, war veterans, local and regional self-government. Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act have been submitted by the Legislative Committee. A code of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act of the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. Proposer representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Drazen Jurkovic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53527	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here, let me present these three laws to you in short lines. As regards the Law on Health Protection, Amendment or most of these amendments has been incorporated into the Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulation which was adopted on 23.12.2009 and has already been implemented, so for 5 months it has been implemented and implemented in our health system. These amendments define who, as well as how they can go to concessions in primary health care, so one system that we have upgraded to the lease system is arranged, and according to the example of all countries, almost in all European Union countries and also in some countries in the environment using their positive experience. Therefore, the additions to this law define that concessions are awarded by the county or the mayor for all places in the network, except for those places that fill the home of health. And by this we are indeed, one of the specifics that we have given additional importance to the homes of health. We also arranged the way doctors who have been hired so far if they want to return to their homes of health, so they become public employees. I would remind you that the concession is not a bond form, so the concession is free will and also the doctors from the lease can go to the concession, but they can also return to the home of health as public employees. And this regulation, or this bill of law, defines that all doctors who wish to return to their homes of health have the advantage of working in that place in the network. I would also like to remind myself that the Health Care Act has provided or introduced a provision that provides the sister or member of the team with a collective contract, so we have further protected the nurses and medical technicians who are part of the team, and here we further provide them in a way that, on the occasion of the return of the doctor from the concession or on the occasion of the termination of the concession, the doctor or nurse also has the right to work in the homes of health. So her working relationship doesn't stop, that employee doesn't go to the stock market, he doesn't go to the labour market, he works in health homes. We also defined how to get the team out of the home of health if a doctor who is an employee of home health wants to become, and I would remind you of what a concession is, so he wants to become a private person in a contractual relationship with public health insurance. Therefore, this law defines that the doctor is obliged to submit a letter to the mayor or to request, but only with the consent of the board of directors of the home health mayor can the concession be called for for those places in the network. Of course, we have also abolished the specifics that are deleted by this legal proposal, and that health homes cannot be founded at a distance of less than 50 km. The reason for the abolition of this provision is a new way of financing homes of health. So, in the Health Protection Act, we have made a commitment that health homes or counties must fill all the places in the network regardless of what is available, regardless of what is not financially profitable under certain circumstances. So, no matter how many insurance companies we have, no matter how many residents we have in a given area, if the network is prescribed, health homes are obliged to fill in and that team. But so far, these homes of health have been paid by the head of health, so they have received an insufficient amount of funding and, of course, in our opinion, it was wrong, because if the state has obliged someone to fill all these places, to pay both the doctor and the nurse on a collective contract, it must also provide him with sufficient resources. Health homes will be paid by limits as well as hospitals in the future, so regardless of the lack of enough residents in a given area, which is not enough insurance in a given area, the Croatian Health Insurance Office will pay these homes a full team. Also, a form of new and new county income appears here. In this way we will invest an additional 55 million kuna per year to finance health homes in the Republic of Croatia, but there is also a new form of compensation that is now the county's income, which is a concession fee. The concession fee is a compensation for the right to carry out certain activities of public interest in a given area. The maximum height is prescribed by the minister and will be at 1250 kuna. The difference between the lease is that this is a fee for the right to carry out activities, not a lease of space because the concession refers to the right to carry out activities and has nothing to do with the place where the activity is carried out and, of course, that concession fee is mandatory to all, and those doctors and teams that were hired, but also private contractors with the Croatian Health Insurance Office. It is the additional income of the county and from that income, it is a dedicated income, from that county's income they are obliged to finance the administrations of the health homes. Of course, that is where we started from the assumption that mayors or counties are best able to model the structure of primary health care in their area, and also, if they want to have more health homes, means more directors, for any reason, more boards of directors, more assistant directors, so to finance more administrative staff, they can also do so from concession fees. However, it seems to me that this motivates them to unite these health homes, to reduce administration and to reroute some of the funds from this administrative and health care sector to the direct healthcare sector. So, in a new way of paying, this definition becomes completely unnecessary because we are completely unnecessary to the local administration, and that is the kind of decentralisation, we have given the possibility of designing primary health care in its own area. We also adopted this law with a proposal from the SDP Club, which is that the institutions registered for the performance of the Palitative Care have a stationary. And of course we're sorting out one important, one big question, and that's the doctor's extra work at private health institutions. I'd just like to remind you that's one of the key issues in the health system. We have indeed studied and talked to a whole series of countries, i.e. representatives of their health administration, including Slovenians and Austrians, and what may be on my surprise here, that this is what we are going to do, we can say the problem almost in all countries and an undefined area. So, by this law of the proposal, I would remind myself that it is not in any way the goal of disabling the work of doctors in supplemental work, but rather the opposite. So, to enable the best parts of the system, to enable the best doctors to make additional achievements if their quality allows them to, therefore, make additional profits. But we also tried, and we want to eliminate the gray zone from the health system. It happened very rarely because a large number of doctors, the largest number of doctors and nurses in the Croatian healthcare system are doing very good work and very correct work but often times and sometimes we have had such remarks that our patients have been talking to us in a way that we have come to a public institution to perform a certain diagnostic examination or some therapeutic service but at the same time the doctor told us that you will have to wait three, four, five or six months. But if you come to my office this afternoon, you can do it right now. Of course he should be very careful there, too. You need to be careful for two reasons. The first is that in this way we can also expose patients to double payments, which is once through a 15% contribution where they pay and contribute to compulsory health insurance, and the second time is that official, so to pay for a private medical service at a full price. Of course, we are really trying to raise awareness not only of the least possible measure but also of making it possible for doctors to tell them who are doing their job well so that they can make extra money in the supplemental work. In what way? First of all, the other thing that's very important here is that we have introduced a category of values and volume of work and categorization of work. We're going to indicate all diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. We have a chance for that. Information on private health care, which is being intensively implemented in the health reform of Minister Milinovic's health, also allows it to monitor the impact. We're going to indicate all therapeutic diagnostic procedures. We will divide hospitals into three categories – clinical hospitals, county hospitals and hospitals in the area of special public care. And only the departments and only those doctors in the departments that are above the national average will be able to participate in the supplemental work and 50% of all doctors in the department. Here's an example of one, allow some clinical hospital that has 10 surgeons or 10 interns can participate, doctors of that department can participate in supplemental work and only if their department passes by indexing the prescribed state... And that's 10 of the top five. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do we want to accomplish in this way? In this way we want to achieve precisely those five who this year, and of course we will be doing annual analyses, those five who could not get permission for additional work this year to work further and be among those first five or among those 50%, while at the same time preventing the rerouting of patients. Because if you're rerouting patients, you're not doing your job properly. In the public sector, you can't have enough procedures, you can't have enough points to gain additional work. Also, this law makes two specifics. One that concerns telemedicine. So, the Institute of Telemedicine, which is otherwise no new institution, already exists for five years, has been granted state-run status and is abolished by the Institute of Mental Health, or the Institute of Mental Health, is attached to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, first of all, for the reasons that we have county institutions for public health, which is already the activity of prevention of addiction and mental health, and that is the logical consequence of the structure, the organisational structure that we have at the level of the county. And also this institution has never fully revived and therefore we have attached it, and of course it is part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme. So, that those institutions, they seduce, those agencies that didn't live in full capacity to abolish, that is, attach to related institutions. As far as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act is concerned, there are several minor amendments. One of the most interesting is that the sick leave is being used by the employee, but after obtaining the right to retire. Therefore, the employer may retain an employee even after this has acquired the right to retire. However, if this employee is no longer carrying HZZO, because you know that 50%, so after 42 days, the cost is borne by HZZO, up to 42 days by the employer. However, in this case, in full respect of the right to compensation for sick leave, the employer pays the worker. And we also defined that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute will no longer finance not only reconstruction surgery procedures, but all aesthetic procedures for the reasons that over the years a whole palette or a whole series of other aesthetic procedures that do not fall into reconstructive surgery, and unless they are medically indicated. Indeed, there is no reason for the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance or taxpayers to finance such procedures. Of course, the exception is procedures related to pathological obesity. And finally the Law on Amendments to the Law and Supplements to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act. What is most important and there is the Government of the Republic of Croatia additionally and in these recession times has highlighted its social sensitivity because a category of income censorship is being introduced and we have said that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia except these five exceptional categories, which are insured persons with disabilities who have 100% damage to the organism. Thus, insured persons providers of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment, insured persons of voluntary blood donors of men with 35 and more giving, women with 25 and more giving and regular students and students. They are a protected category, and all others who cross the income census, which is for a member of the family of 1500 kuna or for a single person 1900 kuna, are obliged to participate and participate in additional health insurance, of course, if they wish to be excluded from the system of participation, or if they wish to use the additional benefits of that health insurance. It should be emphasized that all the policies signed this year are worth another year, so they are worth until the end of that deadline, and I will only make you let me illustrate to you the example of why we did it. It is precisely because all citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be placed in an equal position, in order to equalise the pensioners and the employees, for example. So far, it's been if I'm a secretary of state and I've got, like, $15,000 in salary, and my wife's unemployed for now, according to the current provisions of the law, the state was automatically paying for extra insurance, so 50 kuna for my wife. And if you had two pensioners, say, and each had over a thousand and 500 kuna, so over three thousand kunas together, they had to pay additional health insurance. So we put them in a completely even position and I think it's really okay, although maybe it's just a step between us, I believe there's another step, and that the income, or property censorship, would be the right category, because someone really doesn't need to have any income, but they can have real estate that gets a thousand, two, or three thousand euros in rent, and the state pays for it extra insurance. Here's my thanks. This was short on these three laws, so if there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53528	Thank you. The Committee on Health and Social Care, Chairman of the Committee of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53529	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, the Committee has been discussing all three laws as a parent working body, so I'm just going to make a summary that I don't read the conclusions of every law in particular. In the debate on the amendment of the Health Protection Act, it was pointed out that further improvements to the concession system in primary health care are proposed in this law, the order of concession is introduced, the concession contract is defined, the way and the announcement of the exit from the concession is defined, and health homes are excluded because the county as a concessionist would also be a concessionr. We therefore believe in the committee's debate that this is a further contribution to improving the quality of primary health care in these new frameworks. The definition of the Croatian Institute of Telemedicine has also been discussed as a state health care institution, as well as the merger of the Croatian Institute for Mental Health, with the Croatian Institute for Public Health, which has also been assessed as a very quality solution and further improvement and rationalisation of overall health care. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act on the Committee held a discussion on the expansion of the market activities of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance in such a way as to determine and provide insurance for persons travelling privately abroad, and then to discuss the change in the scope of services for which the Croatian Health Insurance Office will not provide payments, which are different procedures from aesthetic surgery, so all that will not be covered by the basic health insurance contract. And thirdly, the addition of the insurance system according to which a person who can bear the costs himself to circumvent the waiting list, as this can be regulated by this law and made possible. The third Voluntary Health Insurance Act was discussed on the change in the scope of insurance companies for which the premiums for supplementary health insurance are paid out of the budget, and this was assessed in the debate as a significant contribution to the rationalisation of business, stabilising the financial situation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, but also a significant stabilisation of the state budget in the times in which we are located. It is also quality-supported to introduce additional health insurance into the activities of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, but in a way that keeps this additional insurance records separate from basic and supplementary insurance. After the debate, the vote and the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act were adopted unanimously. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance was adopted unanimously and the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance was adopted by the majority of votes. In this way, the Committee considers that there are three amendments, three laws, which contribute to further improvement, a further quality step in health reform and further rationalisation, as well as raising the quality of the health insurance system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53530	Thank you. Legislative Committee, War Veterans Committee, Local and Regional Self-Government Committee. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53531	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before I look back at this package of laws, here are another amendment to the law, I no longer know by which number we already had on the benches, which in itself speaks about the seriousness of the legislation when she referred these laws to the Parliament, and as it started, we'll probably have more. But what he would like to draw attention to is that the economic crisis in Croatia has not yet passed. And that we are not at our peak, and that this economic crisis will inevitably lead to individual health problems, because the socioeconomic situation is definitely affecting individual health. Unemployment, poverty and stress are threats that are manifested to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia at a time of crisis, and in such circumstances health care should not be left to the healthcare organisation alone. Care for health should not be a humanitarian program to help the most vulnerable, nor should health care reflect the interest of those who provide already designed intervention according to the standards of those who need to. So citizens need and must have the right to participate in deciding what kind of care and assistance they need. Did the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we here in the Parliament create this health reform, did we participate in this health reform? Did we have any effect on this health reform? We didn't. The future of Croatia cannot be built on social programmes that treat their citizens as consumers or consumers of assistance, but as responsible individuals and active holders of future development. Health reform is one response to the threat that the economic crisis is giving birth and the economic crisis is leading to public exposure to various health problems. The health reform should have a consensus. And this way we witness that the consensus has not been reached and that it has never begun with the agreement and the desire to reach an agreement. Because if we're going to be a righteous minister, we should have made these changes two years ago. The next year is an election year, and I don't believe the minister will do anything, both the minister and the health administration will do anything to make radical changes in health care. For example, it is also a formal merger of the hospital without fundamental and infrastructure changes, and the proposal of the Ministry of Health does not contain a vision, nor does it have a plan to adapt health to new conditions. We have before us laws that stem from this reform, and we can call this reform "I will-not reform" because it is trying to make an illusion that something is going on. We passed the Smoking Act, so we pulled it back, and then we changed it, and now we've been working out a little hard work. So we're probably going to change that smoking bill that was supposed to be the perks of health care reform. We said doctors shouldn't work outside their home, so we pulled it back, so now we've got a bill amending the law that's going to be very difficult to implement because there's going to be the first question that doctors can't work on? That's where the secretary of state tried to explain the criteria, but here's the real question, the radiologists are working, there's Professor. Hebrang, they have a problem with not having enough room. How will you determine which radiologist does more or less when simply physically they can't have more patients than they have? How will you determine that one colleague works more, one colleague works less, and how will you say that this colleague can work in an extra working relationship in which he cannot? Also medically assisted insemination, we passed a restrictive law, promised to determine whether the law was successful or not after 9 months of law enforcement. We had one game of numbers, a game of slides, three versions. Finally, the time period did not respond to the period itself, and now according to the last one, it decided to take a period of 4.5 months. Which only speaks of taking the part that answers. Third thing, here's the minister, so here's what I'm saying. According to inspection supervision in 2006, birthplaces in Imotski, Makarska, Sinj and Supetar were found not to have adequate equipment and personnel. On 11 May, the minister decided that the birthplaces would be closed so that a few days later they would be withdrawn from the decision, probably because of the pressure of Sinj, Makarska and the people who were there. And here's only one piece of information that may not be of no importance, that 260 children were born in the village of Sinj, in 2008 and 273 in Gospić, if I took it out well. Here's the data they're saying, and I think we should make more decisions based on what things we're going to do and what data we have. This is, for example, examples are of the kind of health care we have in Croatia. The system today is not equally accessible to all, there are no uniform criteria of development, no quality control or professionally uniform guidelines. However, while it is clear to everyone that Croatia needs to reform and that Croatia cannot maintain its capacities and health standards, the key part of health reform is not that it should be implemented but that it is who implements it. Who is this team with Minister Milinovic leading the reform? I haven't seen him, maybe there is. And the basic question is, have we brought the National Health Development Strategy from 2006 to 2011, whether this national strategy is still standing or we have put it out of effect with this health reform? What we can say is that nothing is clear to us except that these few weeks we are receiving new lessons from the Ministry of Health while, for example, here is to point to Romania, which has 70 pages with precise principles and criteria that will develop special, regional or children's hospitals, institutes, level of scale and quality of development of every health institution and type of scientific services that this institution will provide. There is no such thing, but every month or every few months we have a minister's appearance in front of dozens of called health workers, of course there is no discussion. Here's an example, we're bringing four children's hospitals together with adult hospitals, so to speak, that have absolutely nothing to do with each other. Why didn't we put four children's hospitals together? We decided to connect three psychiatric hospitals in Zagreb, that's fine, why didn't we bring 4 children's hospitals together into one if we had the concept that we would save both in the administration and in the people who work in the boards and directors? What is also evident in all of this is that it did not ask the profession, that it did not ask the people who work there, and one example is the "Vuk Vrhovec" clinic, which has its long tradition, which is the highlight of caring for diabetics in Croatia. We will connect it with, or Minister Milinovic, so to speak, it will connect it with the clinical hospital "Mercur" with the idea that this will reduce costs, improve the care of diabetics and one explanation is that financial savings are possible, and how will it be when 70% of the budget itself and "Mercur" and "Vuk Vrhovac" go to employees? What I saw from this reform, what I saw from the presentation, is not planned to reduce the number of people. If 70% of our budget is made up of employees' salaries, how will savings be made that are expected? That's about 300 million. Let me remind you that in health care we stand out nearly 27 billion, and I would just like to quote "The Morning List" on May 15, 2010. 2. where the IMF made it clear that "the cutting of public revenues should be implemented immediately, but not by several hundred million but by 10 billion". It is clear that these means of reforms that have taken place today are a cosmetic procedure, and what is a fact and that we will all agree that Croatian healthcare has now become a burden and brakes in creating the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. By the way... the hospital won't be able to do that we need to make some radical changes, but these root changes have to be based on experience, consensus and professions and people who work inside. We have destroyed the printing model of health care here now we are going to destroy this Croatian model of diabetes care. And in the experience of joining the administration, connecting the hospitals themselves, will not lead to savings. I predict that we will have an increase in costs of simply such holding companies will be difficult to manage. But what does the World Bank expect of us? The International Monetary Fund has told us what it expects from us, and the World Bank is asking for health care to reduce health spending, consolidate and reduce the health instability of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, increase insurance income, reduce specialist hospital tests, increase the importance of family doctors and adopt master plans of Croatian hospitals. I note that Croatian healthcare is extremely high, that this is a great burden and we would welcome the measures that are going in this direction to reduce this burden, to rationalise the system. In these laws we don't see it, we don't see it in a reform that's repeatedly presented in pieces. And if they could see that those savings were going to rationalize the system, then they would take off their hat and say, "That's the real reform, we're going to support that same reform." This is what I don't know by which times the amendments to the Health Protection Act are changed, and I note that the amendment of the Health Protection Act which leads to the fact that local self-government has no impact on concessions anymore, so there is no impact that health homes will be able to give concessions. Definitely the last nail in the printer's model of health, because the simple home of health is something that is the backbone of the health system itself where the patient is in the center. The World Bank tells us that primary health care must be provided by over 80% of health services, home to health is something that could. Here's the secretary of state himself said that he thinks that some counties will establish more homes of health, but that home of health will be just the director of the ficus, the chief nurse and will not have that function that he should have, and that means he is holding comprehensive health care in that area. This system is being applied around the world, everyone knows, we destroyed it. It is also noted that in our close surroundings in Slovenia this system is normally functioning and that it is no worse than ours. It was attempted by the system of concessions that the Constitutional Court... and said that such a system of concessions did not work and that it should be done in another way. And the printing model we started destroying in '95. These amendments to the Health Protection Act are definitely leaving Croatia and disappearing, which will simply lead to the health home disappearing from the stage. More times just emphasized, and at this point we stress that we should conduct a comprehensive debate on what kind of health care we want and we can provide for the citizens of Croatia. According to us, the backbone should be a home of health which would be the subject of health care contracts with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. In this way, the local self-government in which we all swear could affect the quality of health care in our area. All in all, unfortunately I think it's past the moment when we could sit together at the table, because time is past, followed by elections and I don't believe anything in this area will be done. But I still think and here I am, and I publicly call on us to sit together at the table, to try to make this health care better and more effective, and that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the health care they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53532	Thank you. Four corrections. First Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53533	Thank you very much. A colleague Mrsic apparently showed that he does not understand the processes that take place because he has said a whole series of incorrect allegations, so how much time does he allow me? First, he said that a large number of amendments talk about the inconclusiveness of legislation. The other way around. In the dynamic times of amendments and additions to the laws, the legislator monitors developments both in health care and in health insurance, so vice versa. He said we MPs weren't involved in reform. Minister Milinovic started the reform here after this speaker with a public invitation to join you as an opposition to reform, he called you for a consensus, and in several interviews he said so. You refused. So it's not true that you didn't have a chance, but you didn't want to take responsibility. It's easier to criticize than to work. After all, you have the opportunity to discuss all these discussions in the Parliament and to give your opinion. The third incorrect statement that the ministry and minister have no visions of health in these difficult conditions. It is not true, because health care is the only system in this recession that remains financially stable and is not at risk of population health or health care, although it has been increased. Therefore, the vision existed, because if it hadn't been for today, we would have had heavy health losses. And fellow Members, please contact the Attorney's Office and discuss it with them. Next, what Mrssic says incorrectly is that we do not know how much of the doctor is doing. The system is established, every invoice says the code of the doctor and I at my office know exactly how many services and which part of the contract was carried out by the doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53534	And Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Here is the honourable representative Mrsic, according to his custom, all he can forgive our minister, but the success of the reform cannot forgive him, so I will correct the quote he said. The minister was scheduled to go into reform two years ago. Mr. Representative, it's as if you've slept in the Parliament for two years. Minister of Health System Reform 31. Three months after becoming minister for more than two years. I understand you're not coming to the Health Committee, but sometimes you're here in the assembly, so you could see that the reform takes two years, and it's a very successful reform. If it hadn't been for this reform today, we'd have a system that would have been very difficult to function. You know that and all doctors in Croatia know that on your Rebr. And what you can most clearly do from your exposure is introduce order into the health system, introduce order to both clinics and cathedrals. Doctors from county hospitals don't object, because there's less work to be done and less talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53536	And Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Strikic has said indeed a number of incorrect allegations from which predecessors have already corrected one part. He said of course you didn't know the number... Miss, I'm sorry. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So Mrsic is...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53538	Speed, but be careful, Doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53539	Thank you. So that the number of laws is unknown and that the proposing is unserious, that I will-not reform is implemented, that local self-government and regional has no influence whatsoever. It's all incorrect, colleague Mrssic. So it's that this is, of course, the proposer is serious and responsible because this is a serious and responsible job. Ensuring the stability of the health system is an extremely responsible and important job. This is also supported by the stability of the hospital system, but this latest news whether it is unserious 25 new medicines on the list, and the counties and local and regional self-government will have an impact, of course, on the award of concessions and will be significant and new funds will be present, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53540	And Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53541	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Mrsic, said on several occasions that the minister had destroyed the stamper model. So it's a very serious accusation, I think it's incorrect and I think it should be said that in fact a constant and continuous attempt to secure access to the patient's system, to ensure equality, to ensure responsibility for health, to ensure the division of financial risks is certainly not the destruction of the printer's approach and to emphasize that in his time the printer was struggling with one problem, that today he was alive certainly would have fought in the same way that you are fighting here. And on the other hand, I really invite you, or all the doctors here, to join and to participate and to support, not to exclude themselves from participation in advance and then accuse you of not participating. I mean, it's really unnecessary and unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53542	Minister of Health and Social Care Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53543	Thank you very much. I accidentally came to the pay phone when he spoke to a representative of the SDP and I can say that I am very pleased about it. I said it again, but I won't talk about medical insemination, because I said by the end of the year I wouldn't say a word about it, about the harsh politicization of that law, but I have to read it again, so I won't say it, but I'll read it. Please respect your profession. All the lower-signed directors of institutions and doctors involved in human reproduction feel, listen, feel the obligation and need to address the public and deny the allegations among others, parliamentary representatives Milanka Opačić and Miranda Mrsic, who accuses the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health and Social Care Darko Milinovic of providing incorrect data on the number of pregnancies from the medical fertilisation procedures. I know it's hard to listen to. You are the heirs of those who have recited in the past, and now we're recalibrating, so look who I'm recalibrating. Dr. Vranjša, Professor Šijanović, Professor Haller, Professor Smiljan, Dr. Busic, Professor Miskovic, Professor Rotim, Professor Kuna, Professor Vrčić, Dr. Lucinger, Dr. Slavko Oreshkovic. Then I read about it at the exposure forum probably, I don't know whose exposure it is, maybe it's going to hit me in the head, but at the Roda Forum it's all HDZ's, so I went and checked it out. Of these 10 listed here, one has a member of the HDZ, and all others seem to me closer to the political orientation of your naked Christian option led by the coalition government headed by the Croatian Democratic Community. Now he's not lying to the minister, they're lying to these colleagues, and they're saying, we're stressing that the minister gave him the information that we, the doctors who are dealing with human reproduction from our IVF centers, delivered to him. Therefore, it is incorrectly presented to the public that the minister deceives the public, etc., etc., etc. You won't go over my back, I guarantee you, deal with these honest people who do honest work, hard work. You will not safely be using HDZ and the Government of the Right Centre to deal with people who are doing their job correctly and who said when I said gentlemen, I will send some political messages from this, when I have had a press conference, and I ask you to leave then because I do not want to drag you into politics through this law, what the SDP is doing in the last year, two days. Learn to make peace with defeat, but I don't think it's your defeat, it's Croatia's joint success, we have more pregnancy. Let me remind you, while you're talking about health care homes, Dr. Andrija Stamper was retired for three years when the first home of health was founded. He told you yesterday at "Open" Dr. Drazen Jurkovic, a state secretary who I am sure knows more about than you and I do, because in some ways it was his job and master's work, and the first health homes were founded by Ante Vuletic, so after Dr. Andrija Stampar retired for three years. Well, at least you learn that when you say something. Now, there's no good in reform. Gentlemen, it's no good, because for the first time in 20 years, we didn't have to and were forced to resuscitate the health system from the state budget and thus re-burden the state budget and of course it's not good. I know that your success would have been that this, or last year, had to be resolved as in the last 20 years, each time from the budget with a billion, two kunas, and the top of that was when you were in power in 2001 to 2004 when the health system of the Republic of Croatia had almost collapsed. There's no consensus. That's what you'd want if there was no consensus. On GSV and social partners, so both trade unions and employers and the government accepted the health system reform by consensus, and Professor Hebrang heard that we had a fight these days, the two of us, and that's the SDP kitchen. So I've been calling myself from this pay phone, I've been calling myself to Ibler Square to come, to discuss with you before the final law, the reform laws, but of course you didn't have the strength, the will, the desire, to participate in this big project. You don't know what professional working groups are. Well, of course, you don't know much, much, much about reform, not to say you don't know anything. We have three expert working groups. She led one with regard to Mrs. Švaljeg's finances. I think she's known to the general Croatian public. And since she was head of this task force we can expect at the forums tomorrow and the day after tomorrow that she is a member of the HDZ most likely. So, as far as the hospital system is concerned, Dr. Academyman Kusic led the primary health care system, Professor Kakic. So these are all working groups that have gathered the most valuable experts between 15 and 20 in each of these working groups that have been monitoring and monitoring the implementation, and have participated actively in the adoption of the law before it came to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. The home of health is getting stronger with this reform. And I'm going to tell you one thing, that with the new health care financing system not only strengthens the function of home health but we're giving them, how can we strengthen the role and position of home health? To make them financially stronger. And this year, health homes in the Republic of Croatia on their own and through limits will receive more than 55 million kuna last year. Birthplace, you've talked to this pay phone a lot about topics that actually have nothing to do with these laws and these amendments and the additions to this law. Find you in Makarska, Sinj, Imotski... Watch out now this pity that it is not the mayor who later woke up after 7 months Mayor Djakova, after 7 months later woke up and now raises some noise around the school's birthplace that the Health Ministry inspection seven months ago gave the report on the county's call, the county's inspection came out and said they do not meet the minimum standards and until these minimum standards establish a birth certificate has no legal foothold to perform that part of the health service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What the SDP is asking of the minister. He's changing his mind. It's not. Today they are 4 maternity homes and they will be until minimum criteria are established, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will provide funds and there is no change in decision you think it is because they are not working today, and we will do everything we can to provide them with financial resources to equip them and that this government would be responsible for women who give birth in those maternity facilities having the same standard of health care as in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. The economy you say is that health is burdening the economy. It's at 300 days, we've cut the time period for the drugs at the time of the crisis, we've cut the recession to 170 days. We've had 154 million kunas in sick leave. We've got nothing today. Maybe some home budgets are smaller because of the economic crisis, maybe someone is trying to bring down all their forces, but it can't already be so ongoing that it's impossible to bring down the health system reform because maybe some small economies are losing millions of euros because we've arranged the system, because we've brought down drug reference prices and that we've soared about 500 million kunas. The children's hospital and children's hospital during the health system reform received about 100 million kuna through equipment and thus raise the level of health care for children in the Republic of Croatia. Also on yesterday's round table, Dr. Roic and the Director of the Children's Hospital in Klaic said if everything was done the way it was thought and if the hospital's management is such that he takes care of it and this hospital is going to be a good process that will ultimately result in an increase in healthcare, the level of health care in the Republic of Croatia. At the beginning of the health system reform, I see that my bright red, debt in the health system was 4 billion and 600 million kuna. Gentlemen, that's true. I once invited you to come to HZZO at 12 o'clock to check the data that you said in one of the current classes and I said, so I waited for you there you didn't come. 4 million and 600 million kuna in times of crisis and recession has been halved to 2 million and 300, 2 billion and 300 million kuna with further tendency to fall and consolidate the financial health system of the Republic of Croatia, which is very important. And I'm going to say one more and I'm going to end it. Yes, we are the most stable health system in Europe. I saw your statement. We are the most stable health system in Europe, the only one who has halved his debts. Everyone else has paid off their debts and therefore we are the most stable in terms of finance and the health system in Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53544	Three corrections. First Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53545	Well, the minister usually performed as he always does in his lectures. I don't have headphones in my ears. I've got a microphone in front of me. When we talk about assisted insemination, I'm only interested in one thing, and that's nine months, so now it's been up to nine months and it hasn't been good, so now it's been four and a half months. The colleagues who signed behind it are heavily dependent on the minister. Speaking of professors. The printer Professor Vuletic is a teacher of professors. The printer. He just did what he did. The printer wrote in his books that he had. And if you look at Obama's reform and look at the papers that the printer wrote at the time when he was a scholarshipist at Rockefeller's Institute, you can find some things that are equal. And I think it's 3 and a half billion, not 2 billion and 300 which is less than 4. But anyway, it's a long one.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53546	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53547	Minister, I'm correcting your assumption that we're dealing with doctors over your back. That's not true. You ministers, when it comes to medically assisted insemination, deal with couples who can't have children. In the first four months of this year, 173 such a pair had to leave the country in Slovenia to have children. With each of these couples, you've dealt with each other. You're telling the ministers we're about to confess defeat. 173 couples have confessed to defeat. 173 couples tell you congratulations to the Minister, you win. We would never have children for you in Croatia, because of you we have to go to Slovenia. In the first four months of 173, by the end of the year they will be 520. It's your victory, Minister, and I don't know any man but you who would be proud of such a victory.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53548	Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to say that I'm uncomfortablely surprised with the minister's behaviour, until his debate, to the way he's calculating something with us, explains, it's really not appropriate for this honorable House. I'm correcting the next quote. The minister said you don't know, thinking of us SDP agents what health system reform is. Ministers, we know what reform is, you don't know, because if you knew then we wouldn't have changes and additions to health care laws every month. Whenever you come up with an idea, and you think it's brilliant right now, and you don't even have a public debate, you don't consult the profession, but you go straight to the amendments and the additions of the law, so much for who's competent to talk at all, let alone to implement health reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53550	The club of representatives of HNS, HSU, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53551	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First, I'm going to look back at what happened a few minutes ago, and I'm not going to tell you, Mr. Minister, that you know a little bit, let alone you know nothing. Although it is in parliamentary documents that the members of the representative body criticise the failures or certain activities of the ministers, not vice versa, you know. Not the other way around. So I'm asking you not to do it that way in the future. HNS Club, HSU will support two out of three of these laws. Most club members, however, will not support the Voluntary Health Insurance Act and I will say a few words. There is no doubt that we are in a difficult financial crisis, and it is doubtless that we will agree that we can come out of such a crisis through three groups of measures. One, we have to spend less. That's what we're working on right now. We need to create more and we need to lose less through corruption channels and corruption scandals. Now we started a few months ago with the suspension of student transportation, then we abolished free, free transport, so we abolished the subsidisation of student homes, so we introduced a crisis tax, so last week we abolished the free use of Croatian highways by people with disabilities and today we move on. It is proposed that 360 thousand Croatian citizens are left without additional insurance, but I will admit the ministers, there is logic in proposals to equalise certain categories of citizens, e.g. pensioners and employees with the same income. I agree. It makes sense. There is a logic that part of the health insurance burden is passed on to the spouse or wife of an unemployed spouse if he or she has high incomes, but cannot be taken away from the impression that the applicant did not base the overall savings project on a comprehensive analysis and concrete arguments which he could also show numerically. The property censorship of citizens is now becoming a personal criterion for deciding whether to pay or not to pay additional insurance by the state. ... All right, here we go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We just heard the other way around. I'm afraid this kind of savings won't be of any use. Because with all these laws where we've tried to save some money 5, 10, 15, 20, 100 million, we've never heard of what that money will be clearly directed at. What new technologies we're going to transfer, what profiles we're going to miss education, what industrial branches we're going to support to be able to hire as many citizens as possible, etc. So I always miss that kit that we should connect to one whole. Here's a colleague and a colleague, which means to a young man who's at the Employment Service that means additional health insurance compared to his constitutional right to employment, to creating a family, to raising children, to the social security of the young family. So I'd like to always analyze everything in one complete package. With work and full employment, these young people will pay for their health insurance themselves, and this will not require the state to help them, but they will help the state. These are young, healthy, educated people and they have to help the state to help those citizens who are not fortunate to be healthy, who have no ability to work for themselves etc. That's what politics is all about. And we've never had colleagues and colleagues in this assembly look back at where we can save not a few million, but where we can save tens and tens of billions of kunas. I'll ask you one more question now. Can you calculate quickly, very simply, how many parents put into one child for 20 or 25 years until they put it on its feet? You take just 2,000, like some minimum amount, so you multiply by the number of months in 25 years. So then take how many countries local and regional communities invest in kindergartens, schools, cultural, sports facilities, etc., and there will be a number that we invested between a million and 500 thousand kuna in each young man, until his 25 years of study. Although we know colleagues and colleagues that at this point at the Employment Service there are 108 thousand young people, times a million kunas, we have received over 100 billion kunas of dead capital. Over 100 billion. That capital's going down fast, for biological reasons, because we're getting old. Every year, 2 to 3% of that capital will fail. We're not talking about it, we're saving millions, we're spending billions. That's not gonna work. In the long run, colleagues and colleagues, he doesn't hold water, he doesn't hold water. This isn't attacking your minister, you're doing everything you can in your portfolio. But it has to be done a lot more. What you save I want to know what the Minister of Economy will do, which the Minister of Education will do with that money that needs to be converted into development projects. That's not in us. The same applies clearly to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, i.e. change of the supplement in the segment of aesthetic procedures, travel insurance, costs for services in private clinics, i.e. non-refunds, sick leave after termination of working conditions, etc., etc., etc. It's all groundless, if we don't go at the same time to developmental components that are missing as an additional explanation of each of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53552	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Care Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53553	I think it's actually... But I welcome this debate, this is how we can discuss the Health System Reform and I really want to thank you for this constructive debate and thank you for your support, of this 3 laws 2 you will support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is the way we can discuss health system reform correctly and its effects, and you have every right to ask me as minister to know what savings we have made during the reforms and what those savings mean to the patient and to save where they're going to go. And I'm extremely glad, here I am, especially glad to be here because I am still getting the strength that we can also have different political colors of uniforms very correctly, calmly, reasonedly discuss health system reform. That's why sometimes I, I know, raise my voice because I can't just swallow, if you like, a demagogue coming from some political options. And now that you've said it, I'll mention it one more time, and you probably know that last year alone at drug reference prices we saved 415 million kunas and better control of the health of 500 million kunas. When I first answered, I don't know, we noticed that we had 150 million kunas in debt to the economy, to the privates for the sick. Today that debt is 0. Now I'm going to tell you about how much time I'm allowed, where some of those savings are going today. At the beginning of the term of office of this government, we said that investment in Croatian health, indeed the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I think they understood, but we who are in the executive government, including the Parliament, investment in Croatian health is not a cost but is an investment in the future of the Croatian state. When I mention that 4, 5 years ago, the Fund is particularly expensive drugs, and I accept that if it has to be called the Fund of especially expensive medicines, do they have to be marked because they're expensive, if they can be called otherwise, and we can talk about it, but the Fund of especially expensive medicines from 40 million kuna we've raised to 550 million kuna. Remember, and often I don't hide to brag, that in equipment at the time of recession and crisis, we invest an additional 800 million kuna. That we invested 40 million kunas more in medical fertilization. Now, look at one piece of information why this year is the first time, and actually last year we don't have any interventions from the state budget to resuscitate the health system? It's because we've rationalized consumption, put it in order, and it's still in order. No, I often look behind myself for what we've done, so I think we've done a huge job. And then when I look in front of me, how much more do we have to do like we didn't do anything? And it's unfortunately a health care system and a social care system. So when I mention that in the last seven years, we've been on the A list or on the new drugs that we've introduced to the A or B list in the past seven years, so in 7 years, 45. And now within a year we've introduced the list of A new, slightly more than a year, the new 47 drugs. Here next week is the Administrative Board of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which will most likely take on the proposal of the profession to include 25 new medicines on the list of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. Among them are 6 new medicines for cancer treatment. So here I am now about what I could think of where those resources that we rationalize, where we spend them, how we spend them. I'll mention, now I've got 55 million kuna in information. And why not say that we are among the 25 countries regarding the information of primary health care in the world, and when the full implementation is complete on 01.01. next year we will be the first in the world. Now, you see that every little bit on my left always some incursions so then I can't be immune to those intruders, so sometimes I have to react. He was a journalist and asked Mr. Mršić: "Well, when you have so many criticisms on the Health System Reform, you were in power for four years." Now we can read your interview together. You know why you didn't spend it? I'll read to you, "Because it's a complicated process."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53554	HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53555	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm glad that the HNS and HSU club will support two of these proposed three laws, and by the way, I'm going to say that we in HDZ will support all three. But the beginning of this debate also speaks of how important the subject and the important laws are, but it is necessary, and a heated debate begins, but it is necessary to describe how it was only audacious in December when the adoption of these laws was in progress, as it was audacious. There are laws passed that are there, but the reform goes on and it certainly does. And we in HDZ have a nice term, "Let's move on!" Well, let's move on to that part and go with all three laws. And the first, of course, is health care, so let me just remind you from December 2008 when the government said that the main objectives, the first financial consolidation of the health system, and the second, maintain a high level of quality and availability. Which is, by the way, to be said in the European environment, we are classified in the EU group25. In a group of countries with relatively, rich countries with good health care. But let's say something, let's repeat health care, I think it's good to repeat it all the time because it's important and the debate itself confirms it. The 2008 Health Protection Act therefore regulates the principles and measures of healthcare, the rights and obligations of persons in the use of health care, the holder of social care for the health of the population, the content and organisational forms of performing health activities and the supervision of the exercise of health activities. Health care within the meaning of this law includes a system of social, joint and individual measures, services and activities to preserve and improve health, prevent diseases, early detection of diseases, timely treatment and health care and rehabilitation. Each person shall have the right to health care, the possibility of achieving the highest possible level of health in accordance with the provisions of this law and the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Each person is obliged to care for his health and no one should endanger the health of others. The same law mentions the article 40 that is very important about these amendments, so it is important to mention it. In this context, it states that public health care at the primary level of health activities can be carried out on the basis of the concession of a natural person and a health institution if they meet the conditions laid down by this law. On the basis of the concession, family medicine, dental care, infant health, preschool children, women's health care, laboratory activities, pharmaceutical activities, medical work, home care, and most of these changes can be carried out... So, of course, concessions are complex legal materials. This is undeniable because it overlaps with the Law on Health Protection, the Law on concessions, the Law on Public Procurement and many other regulations. During the introduction of these concessions, certain moments have been observed and the Government has, in turn, adopted that regulation mentioned by the Secretary of State, 155 and relating to concessions for public health services in order to fully specify the implementation of the concession procedure. And now with regard to these concessions, a lot has been said but it is necessary to repeat it because it is indeed an exceptional legal matter. Therefore, firstly, by taking the abovementioned solutions to the regulation, it is regulated by this legislative proposal that public health care at the primary level of health activities can be carried out on the basis of the concession of a natural person and a health institution. Apart from health institutions whose founder is the Republic of Croatia, the county, or the city of Zagreb. Only in the award of public health care concessions are health homes and health care institutions, the founder of which is the county, that is, the city of Zagreb, because in this case the concentrate was also a concession provider and the founder of a health institution. The legislative proposal also regulates the way in which the number of concessions for which the notification of the intention to grant concessions is announced. In view of the concessions for public health services, the mayor, or the mayor of the city of Zagreb, according to the public health service network, is arranged to publish a notice on the intention to grant concessions. For the number of concessions determined by a network of public health services, i.e. by a network of contract entities of labour medicine. Go on. The legislative proposal provides that the concession contract concluded with a natural person must contain a concessionary obligation provision that, in the event of a change in the scope of the concession-based activity, the consent of the concessionors and the provision of the concessionaires' obligation to make any other amendment to the content of the concession contract known as the concession notice. So it was quite clearly said here but there were other issues which were also interested on the board of many participants what the fate of the doctor in the lease is that they are not interested in continuing activities in the concession and therefore they have the priority of returning to the home of health. The question was also asked what was the fate of the nurses. Mr. Secretary of State said the collective contract must be respected, but they also have the right to return to the home of health. And one more thing along with those listed that carry out the concession is now analoguely going to medical work. So that's one about the concession I think there's a lot of that said, shouldn't be repeated. But the other thing is that according to the article that is important and that the public is extremely sensitized, which is the additional work of the doctor and there has been a lot of talk about it, but surely with these changes, it will also be brought into order in some way. Therefore, in accordance with Article 125 of the applicable law, a healthcare professional may, with the approval of the employer..., conclude his... work and health activities in accordance with the Labour Act no longer than a third of full-time under agreement with the employer. And it's important to mention that we need to sign a tripartite contract. So, between who would work and his employer and the private subject you'd be working with. It was also pointed out, and what is important is that the Croatian medical chamber insisted on the price, to set the lowest price in line. I think it's very important to mention in this place is the price of this work so there won't be any thinking in that direction. It is also unnecessary to talk about a significant telemedicine institution. It is vitally significant on our islands, etc. It was established by Government Regulation 120/2005. It is a public institution whose activity is to promote the highest standards of medical education and medical practice in the application of new techniques and technologies in remote treatment diagnostics in the Republic of Croatia. And in that part of the telemedicine office is defined as a state health care agency. It's all said I wouldn't repeat myself in that part. 4th thing in order to rationalise the business of the network of health systems with this legal proposal also regulates the accession of the Croatian Institute of Mental Health to the Croatian Institute of Public Health. In this respect, the activities of the Croatian Institute of Public Health are expanded and it is arranged that both workers and financial resources, salaries of workers, are taken over by the Public Health Institute on the day of enrolment of activities in the court register. It's always important to mention, it may be a little late now, but it's good to mention that you know that too. So, it's good that the news has been introduced that the institution that's registered, and that was the fifth change... registered that a palitative care can get a stationary. It was that proposal for a debate that was co-workers from the SDP a short time ago. And the 6th thing is what's important is what's also said about health homes that can be based on smaller distances. These are changes in health care. With regard to compulsory health insurance, it is also important to mention the incomes that we have repeated several times, so from the contributions from the insurance companies it is those 10 points that I do not repeat them all, employers etc. And 32% of that total income of knowing what better not to smoke, right? That's a good message. But there's also a mandatory one that's right. So, the right to primary health care, the right to a specialist consular, hospital, the right to medication, and it's nice to hear this news that 25 new medicines are listed. But it also has a price. The cost of all that expensive health care system is 27 billion. We're here somewhere. But in any case, it's also to welcome that orthopedic aids, dental aids, the right to compensation during sick leave, the right to travel expenses. These are all the things that come from it, all of them, and in that part are the changes that have already been mentioned. And this is as the first measure of economic recovery, this legislative proposal regulates the foundation within the framework, and the way in which the payment and calculation of the specific contribution to the use of health care abroad, for the insured persons of the institution that they have to go abroad in private business. 2. The legislative proposal also amends the scope of health services for which the cost of the health insurance obligations is not guaranteed and introduces the obligation of the insured person to bear health care costs himself, as has been said regarding these aesthetic procedures, etc. It's also mentioned that missing the list. This was known for its time in terms of magnetic resonances, etc. in this part, the insured person will have to participate alone in that part. And what was mentioned on 4th was sick leave when a contract on the work of a person was terminated, and the employer shows the need for this person to continue to work sick leave on the burden of that employer, right. That's four of those things that would be important to that... in that part that's to say hello. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as voluntary insurance is concerned, I think it's been since the beginning of some wording dispute, whatever it was called, one way or another, but surely this 2008 law defines the type, conditions and method of implementation. In accordance with the applicable law of additional health insurance as a type of voluntary health insurance, the insurance companies authorised to carry out that type of insurance by the supervisory authority to carry out insurance operations are subject to the insurance law and have obtained the consent of the Minister of Health. What are the changes? Therefore, in order to expand the market activities of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance as measures of economic recovery, this legislative proposal regulates that additional health insurance can be carried out by the Institute, that is to say, first. Secondly, the scope of the insurance undertaking’s assets and premiums to be provided by the institution in the national budget is also changed. It is arranged that funds for the premium of supplementary health insurance shall be provided in the state budget for people with disabilities who have 100% damage to the body or physical impairment according to specific regulations, persons who have identified several types of damage and persons with physical, mental or mental illness that are unable to carry out the activities of the appropriate age in accordance with the rules on social care, the insured blood donor... The human body, for the purpose of treatment, provides a person with a voluntary blood donor with more than 35 giving men, more than 25 giving women, the insured person of regular students and students over the age of 18 and the insured person whose income per member of the family, which was spoken of, the income census therefore for singles is that 1900 kuna, for members of the 1560 kuna family, and in that part was literally just pensioners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these changes would save about 200 million and, as I said, the Croatian Democratic Community club would support it. Let's move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53556	Thank you. At 18.18 hours, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Same fate. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53557	Thank you very much. To regulate health relations is objectively not easy. It's one hard one, it's one serious job. First of all, there are a whole series of circumstances that neither the health minister nor any government in the world can influence. In objective terms, human life extends as well, but this means that an increasing number of elderly people live longer and that is precisely in the period of life when they are actually the sickest, when they need increased medical care or more frequent medical assistance. New diagnostic methods appear, the magnet appeared 10 years ago, before the surgeon worked based on an X-ray. Today, of course, he's not working, he's also looking for a magnetic resonance to make his procedure as safe and as successful as possible. There are also new therapeutic methods, new medicines, all of which cost, and that's why regulating health relations is not easy in any country or government. There's also the pressure of the pharmaceutical industry. Some normal life conditions are declared pathological, the dangers of individual epidemics are invented. We had such a fear of bird flu, of a virus that wasn't actually human where the danger was that if eventually the virus mutates from bird to human, then anything could happen. And, dear God, every virus can mutate, and that human common flu can mutate, so no more vaccine will be worth as much more and more logical and more likely danger as any bird virus can first become human and then be dangerous. After the bird came the danger of swine flu. Thousands of doses of vaccines have been obtained again, only the Polish health minister said she was wrong and did not get the vaccine because she estimated that there was no danger and that she would not spend the state money and throw it away in vain. We're not Poland, we don't have such a minister, we have what we have, my God. He got the vaccine and then first he said he wouldn't vaccinate, then he was still vaccinated when he saw that no one was vaccinated and that his supply was in vain. Then we're going to have to throw that vaccine away because it runs out in the 8th month, so I guess we're going to be getting a new one either for pig flu or for some new flu that comes back as a fam around the world again. These laws, these three laws go after them, says the minister to continue the health reform, and for them is a significant number of changes, almost as on the tape in a steady-standing rhythm of the laws change. Dr. Hebrang says the government is following up on this. Maybe. I'd say the government is wandering and doesn't know what they want, but let's take Hebrang's thesis into consideration, that so many changes are due to the government's monitoring of events. So let's see what the government is up to. Let's say that he abolished the birthplace in Sinj, Imotski, Makarska and Supetar. How the government followed the events and how many years the government has been monitoring the events to then come up with this revolutionary idea that maternity homes should be abolished. The birthplaces are abolished because the large ones are not fully equipped, they have no surgery with them, so there are no surgeons to intervene in complicated births. Well, now that there are no surgeons, the birthplaces are being abolished. It's about like this, as if the Home Secretary says every police station has to have at least one official vehicle so that it can go on patrol. And whoever's in charge of getting those vehicles, I'm the minister. And then one day, and after a few years, he finds that one station doesn't have a vehicle, so he shuts it down. Instead of abolishing himself because he didn't get the vehicles, which was his duty. So who's to blame that maternity homes aren't equipped? The Martians? Who's to blame, that same minister. Well, it was his duty to equip the maternity home, and now that he hasn't fulfilled his duty, then what he's doing, he's abolishing the maternity ward. He's canceling maternity because he didn't do his job. That's how the government monitors events, and that's how the government reacts to events. In medically assisted insemination, how does the government monitor events? In 4 months this year, in the first 4 months 173 couples went from Croatia to artificial insemination outside. The Minister has now left the Parliament, not listening to this. I'm not saying this for the minister, so let's get him out. I'm saying this on behalf of that 173 pair. These people didn't go out to tourism and they didn't go outside to pay because they have extra money, because it costs several thousand euros. They left because this minister lifted their ability to reach the child they wanted by freezing the mattresses. The minister boasts here that it is his victory. Well, it's a great honor for him to win! They're writing him a pair of postcards. Every time he goes out, he writes him a postcard. By the end of the year, they'll be around 520. And what you should be ashamed of is not in front of me, not in front of the SDP, in front of that 173 pair. The minister is very proud here. That's what insults us. I'd understand the wanderings and the attempts that come from an objectively difficult situation. But if the minister says now, look, we have to fix this thing because you see we don't know now there's these therapeutic methods, new diagnostics all cost. We don't have that kind of money in the health system. Let's save some money. Let's do something. I'd understand that. Well, any citizen would understand that, and any patient in this country would understand that. But that someone boasts that as a minister he did that people must leave his country because he's stubborn and he's arrogant. Why are they leaving the country? So they can have the child they wanted. That's not the kind of thing a minister can be proud of. How does the government monitor and react to events? First it was participation, so the participation was abolished, and participation was re-introduced. This is how the government monitors and reacts to events. One complete misdemeanor. You don't know what you want. Now this supplemental health insurance package that was paid by the state is being abolished for those who have over 3,000 kunas. That's clearly what the health minister thinks of the wealth line, so the one who has at least 3,000 kunas should pay his extra health insurance because he's rich. Until then, you have brought down this country, that those who have 3,000 per month, 3000 kuna per month are considered rich. The minister boasts of development and investment in the purchase of equipment. That's right. The equipment is being bought. For example, a magnet was purchased at a hospital in Gospić. The hospital in Gospić has an inflow of 10 patients per day on average, there is an x-rayologist who cannot work 24 hours a day on that magnet, and there is no one to paint when there are only 10 patients per day. But that's how you invest in the development and equipment of hospitals. The city from which the minister comes is being bought by a magnet whether it is needed or not, so that the minister can boast there, in order to eventually collect political points and votes in the future elections. But it's not a system policy. It's something embarrassing. It's something that shouldn't happen. It's something that's for every conviction. And when on the one hand we have this supply of equipment, and on the other hand, hundreds of couples going out to us, they spend a lot of money to get the aided fertilization, then it's time for the minister to thank us. I think that's what the citizens will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53558	Thank you. Two replicas. First Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53559	Well, what you said to my colleague Stazic would be good for the health of the nation, because Mr. Minister doesn't understand that he is responsible for the health of the nation. What kind of health is that? What are our citizens, what are their health, what health care is available to them. The reform he's talking about. And where is the patient in that reform? At the end of the reform will succeed, and the patient dies. What the reforms have come down to, to close, to connect the hospitals, to close the birthplaces you mentioned. And they're opening up, what are we going to do about opening golf courses? Children cannot be born by natural means, or parents who are potentially unable to achieve parenthood. But what does the minister do? On the body of a woman exercises her political power. Is that an adequate policy? In Zadar, patients with cancer with metastases who urgently need radiation for months have to wait. I can do it in Split or Zagreb. I have a whole list of people who are panicking for help, and he's proud. The Montenegrins have a saying, "Congratulations to you, you early hero." Well, he really needs to be congratulated on this kind of victory. His victory defeats patients. And it's really a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53560	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53561	Thank you. We heard from HDZ representatives on behalf of the club that the law says that every Croatian citizen is obliged to take care of his health. You see that can also be translated in several ways. It can also be done in such a way that what you should be dealing with is the system of falling on the back of an individual. If so, then we have come in the worst possible way of understanding capitalism whose essence is really not in it, that everything is a commodity, including human life, and even human health, that everything can be bought. You see, we're citizens. I'm not talking about us as politicians right now, but as citizens, we're exposed to constant changes within the health system. It's no secret that health care is of the utmost interest to all citizens. I am surprised by the minister's statement that the Croatian health system is the most stable in Europe, because it is precisely these constant changes that his colleague Hebrang interpreted as being the result of a turbulent situation, so health is just following the changes in society, so it is constantly changing, which would mean that every day we would almost have to follow what is new in health. I think you really need to understand that even dissent with government policy can be well-intentioned, here we are as advocates exposed to insults, even primitiveism, even insults to our families, which is the final proof that the argument is gone. I am appalled by the attack of families or close relatives of some of my colleagues and I will never accept it and will always stand up against it on behalf of civilised, cultural and decent European Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53562	State Secretary Drazen Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53563	Allow only a very short one. So, dear colleague Stazic, as far as the vaccine is concerned. The Polish minister gambled with the health of her citizens. All the countries in Europe and the world have also obtained a vaccine, including Croatia and 300 thousand doses, and the recommendation of the profession and the requirement of the profession, hence the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance of Top Epidemiologists of Croatians, was to obtain 2 and a half million doses of vaccines, and that this is the minimum amount and recommendations of the World Health Organization, and ultimately I remind you of the strategy adopted by this High House in 2005, a strategy to combat infectious diseases, which states when the World Health Organization declares the sixth stage, that the health minister is obliged to order and obtain the vaccine. So no one has the right nor the Minister of Health, and this minister has done not gamble with the lives of his citizens and not order the vaccine. Secondly, I really agree with the honourable representative Antičević, and responsibility for their words should be given to all, including some parliamentary representatives. You're saying there was no consequence of this virus. It was, but you don't know it. 54 people died of a pandemic flu virus, and it was a laboratoryly proven death. So now I'm asking you a question, if there wasn't a media campaign and irresponsible procedures like you and you, among other things, in this House, with this debate today, that someone vaccinated that 54 people, wouldn't anyone be alive? So you take responsibility for that, too. Next, maternity homes. The Croatian state has invested 300 million kunas in Split's maternity home. Split maternity home which is at 20, 30 minutes or 45 minutes from these birthplaces here. So one of the most modern birthplaces in Europe. Therefore, the question arises, and we also have a medical inspection report. Health inspection finds that birthplaces in Sinj, Makarska, in Imotski do not meet minimum conditions to function as birthplaces and thus put women's health at risk. So I ask you a question and let's be completely open here, who would be the one who invests 300 million kunas in one of the most modern birthplaces in Europe, while at the same time holding open birthplaces close to that birthplace that has equipment, that has technology and that has personnel. You speak for Gospić, for the magnet. Have you ever heard of the concept of availability? The World Health Organization, among the four basic characteristics of healthcare, puts accessibility first. There is no other hospital since the women's hospital for 100 kilometers, and regardless of the number of inhabitants who are gravitating this lady's hospital, the lady hospital must have diagnostic, basic diagnostic and therapeutic methods for its residents. And, of course, it's not true what you said about 10 patients a day coming to the lady's hospital. So you don't know the data, the false data of the barata, and really if you're exhibiting in this High House, it would be good to at least expose the correct and accurate allegations. And the other thing, as far as the debate is concerned, by the distinguished representative Anticevic. I don't know who should be ashamed of it, but if I was a minister or maybe the citizens of this country who had a minister who was only remembered for opening elevators, she really doesn't have the right to touch anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53564	Please, how can you sow a woman like that? Yeah, yeah. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53565	... The last thing he said, he's even taking it away, because he has no idea that 12 judicial bodies have been opened, including a disabled elevator for 12. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] But I will tell you, therefore, you can freely refuse him what he last said, but otherwise, in his performance and speech he should be reminded of, I am asking you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, because you are the first among the equal and you are certainly taking care of the reputation of this House, i.e. responsible for the reputation of every representative and this House as a whole rises and does not degrade. I mean with these lessons, not lessons, but with this way and choosing the words that the secretary of state right here to probably hand over to his minister, whether I was good and showing my muscles, it's somewhere else you show, and in the House I ask you to behave politely. The MP has the right to criticise, especially the opposition, it is our duty. It's our duty. They're hurt, I'm now talking about all these measures, maintaining order and tightening measures in the article. Oh, yeah, well, you're a lot of advocating yourself to articles, and I said that, the whole head... I beg you Vice President, it's been done to make a good performance, a tradition, regardless of the political colors and options that were, we've always taken care of it, especially here or zealous. [[The speakers speak at the same time.]] Here I am asking you to remain at that level of protection for the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53566	All right, all right. Don't worry. And also Mr. Nenad Stazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53567	Article 213 remains a whole series of articles on the agenda. In Croatia, we have a trio of government. The parliamentary authority controls the executive. And the Secretary of State in this House won't call for the order of SDP representatives, Vice President, I guarantee it. I expect you to invite the Secretary of State to apologize, otherwise we'll call a club session, discuss further participation on this agenda item, consider the State Secretary's behaviour, because this is completely outrageous, that one State Secretary calls the MP in line, because of what he said in Parliament. Keep order, Vice President, warn those who do not know how to behave, secure order in the House, and preserve the dignity of this House because you belong to it. Insulting the MPs and insulting you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53568	Thank you very much. Double standards are usually very present in this home. It is not about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and colleagues Anticevic and colleagues Stazic. You have brought down the most difficult weapons against Minister Milinovic in your actions, what qualifications you have brought to his expense in this debate. With the conclusion that he needs to be abolished, that he's done huge damage in the state, that he's taken the vaccine, and that he's drained millions of state money, that it's a pest. And at the same time you now that it suits you with the same measure, when you get... Please, you can't... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, it can be indicated that such attacks are unfounded. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If such attacks are coming from your side, with your qualifications, then it is legitimate for both the Minister and the members of the government to defend themselves and to defend themselves in a necessary self-defense manner and answer. So don't shine a storm and ask it to be south. There's no such thing. They cannot be represented on this side or on the other hand, there must be one thing about being appropriate to the members of the government, and going with a dictionary in which the reputation, honor and dignity of ministers and members of the Government is severely offended does not mean that it is appropriate. It is not the minister of the servant in this sense that it should be served as I suppose it should be served as a target to which various insults will be applied. One is a criticism, one is a critical review and states, may be the most severe one, I will always defend and tolerate it, but when it states that a certain measure that goes with it should be abolished is one offensive behavior and when the Secretary of State responds to that in the defence, it is in accordance with the rules of procedure, in accordance with the intensity of the debate. Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic, please. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's the correction? ... You're right, you're right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's the assistant secretary who didn't warn me. My friend, I'll take the trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53569	You're telling us about the birth certificates. The inspection report was in 2006, 4 years passed that the minister had done nothing but then remembered after 4 years to lift the birthplace. And now that we're asking for an end to the minister, we're looking for his shift, it's legitimate to request a minister's shift in Parliament. Because where else to look if not in the Parliament? And if you vice presidents are going to defend Parliament's dignity in this way...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53570	You've come forward to correcting the State Secretary's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53571	And I corrected his quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53572	Is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53573	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53574	Thank you very much. Mr Miranda Mrsic, also the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53575	Mr. Secretary of State referred to the question of availability and said that Gospić must have a magnet because it is important that people in Lika have available health care. I completely agree, but also people in Makarska, Imotski, Vrgorec must have available healthcare and you cannot claim that you can come from Makarska to Split in half an hour. Try it in the summer months and you'll see what it looks like. Therefore, if we are talking about the availability of healthcare, if Gospić has a magnet, then these places must also have maternity homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53576	And representative Nedjeljko Strikic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, distinguished MPs and MPs. I'm going to start my debate a little differently than I thought because I don't think this debate is a very important topic of health reform. And Mr. Honorable Representative Stazic, who is invited, and even to democratic principles, I must say, and he can understand that as he wills, that I did not even forgive him a year and a half ago when he was working in this assembly, in this House debate on health reform when he said and insulted 13 thousand Croatian doctors. Then you said no patient could enter the Croatian hospital unless he paid the doctor. It was such an insult, you haven't apologized to a doctor in the Republic of Croatia today who, as we discuss here, works consciously, professionally, responsibly treats the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And you're talking about democracy, is there something that has offended you? So sometimes take your stenogram of what you say in this Assembly and fellow MPs without telling the members of the government. But that's a different story. I'll say a few words that apparently your colleagues from the SDP are bothering you, and that's the success of health reform. And Mr. Minister, I really do think so because I'm in the system, I work in the system, I congratulate you on your current reform of the health system. Not only in my own name, but I congratulate you on behalf of many health workers. Because at this point in the health system about 70,000 people are working, none of them got fired because there's no funds, which the salaries didn't come in time. The pay comes, I've been in the system for 20 years, most regularly in the last 20 years. Hospital limits are respected in the rear lip, in the rear lip. 31.12. all hospitals, all agreed obligations from the Croatian Institute were settled. It's never been before, it's due to the health reform. The Ministers can't forgive you for that. That's why you're not a good minister. That's why your reform isn't good. Let's just remember when there was a time of swine flu all over the world, when the World Health Organization declared the 5th and the 6th degrees. Mr. Minister is criminally responsible if he does not comply with the principle of the World Health Organization, that is, under the existing laws of the Republic of Croatia. He did it. The media crucified him for 15 days. He wasn't even late, the minister said he was coming on 15.12. It came before 01.12. So, what if we hadn't ordered the vaccine at all? How many lives have we saved, and of course you don't know and you don't need to know because you're not from that profession, but our anesthesiologists, the infectologists who in intensive care have saved many lives thanks to TAMIFLU and medicines. And today someone's saying it was thrown in vain? Indeed the treasure of one who knows little can say anything. Good for him who knows little. About birthplaces, so Mr. Minister is not intended to abolish maternity care but to create conditions and equal chances for newborns when they are born, but when complications arise in childbirth both in Sinj and in Makarska, so if it is necessary in Đakov as it is in Split in Petrovo or in Karlovac. It's also a treasure to anyone who knows little about medicine. It doesn't have to be known by an agent but it can't be put into a dilemma or debate whether something needs to or doesn't need to be. If it were your child about your wife to be born under inadequate conditions, we would say to create conditions for her to have. And Ministers for that thank you for working to create equal conditions. And indeed, it is a respected representative of Antičević and you said, it is not fair, it is not fair to share the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on those in Gospić and those who had opportunities somewhere that they were born on Rebr, that they were born in Rijeka or Osijek have access to health care maximum. Should we move those from Gospić to Zagreb? And if our minister were born in Zagreb, then Zagreb shouldn't have a magnet, because then they would say it's not good if it's because of the minister. We can't do that. So remember in Dubrovnik HDZ was not in power or in Pula, so the Pula Hospital was always forgiven because the situation in which the hospital works was appreciated, and better conditions were created. That's the way we talk about health reform. Today, the debate of the distinguished representative, Doric, led in that direction. And now I'm going to say a few words about this law that is very important and I think they are just a continuation of the reform that began two years ago, which is a success. Its success is also related to the stability of the system, not just financial. The introduction of order into the pharmaceutical industry or in the supply of medicinal products and the reference prices of medicinal products. Let us remember how much the budget for the transplant in Croatia has been increased and we read, it is nice to read to all of us when we read that she has succeeded in the transplant on Rebr, that she has succeeded in the transplant on Mercury, and that is all due to this ministry and the reform of the health system. There is also a long story and a respected representative who has not been there by Ostojić and Mrsic, the accreditation of hospitals, categorization of hospitals, and no one besides this minister and this reform has even created an accreditation agency or categorisation of hospitals, has entered the system of emergency medical reform that we adapt to European standards. And thanks to the Institute of Emergency Medicine and the Croatian Institute, 80m euros will be withdrawn under the new Telemedicine Act from the European Union funds. It is precisely this reform and such a reform that will be used naturally for the benefit of the Croatian man when he is sick when he needs health care. And that part that he picked up amongst the medical and medical circles a lot of barrels back 5 months, it's the work of a doctor outside of working hours, outside the home institution. And there every objective either that works in the system or outside the system, must say that the time has come to introduce order. And introducing order to those who have learned to work in a mess is the most disturbing. And they are the loudest, and they are the first to appear. And looking at this right now, I'm gonna say last night's "Open" show when one respected fellow professor says, so what we do on Rebr is the most important thing. I would really like to see his work day as an oncologist of hematologist, and my oncologist in Karlovac, and I am convinced that mine has done more tests and more tests than the one on Rebr is a respected professor because he's not speaking directly about him now, but some have, after 180 days abroad. Today at the time of communication during the Internet medicine is only one, each information is available not in 5 minutes, but in one minute. You can see everything. Should he be traveling around the world for 180 days a year? Count the 180 that he has left on his workdays, so there's Saturday and Sunday. He practically works 100 days. So calculate how many patients he will examine in 100 days, and best in Croatia everyone loves him and everyone is looking for him and he is an expert. Well, you're finally introducing order, and those who do a lot of work should be rewarded. This needs not only in the health system but in many segments of society in Croatia to introduce order. And this government headed by our Prime Minister has the courage, has the determination to introduce order. Either way, I'll uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53578	Thank you. Several corrections first Mr Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53579	Well, counterpart Strikic, as always, has become a part of the defence that is expected of a member of the ruling party. But he says the SDP is bothered by the success of health reform. It doesn't matter, because it's for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but we don't see it. That's the problem. What we want to see is that the results of the reform are what we're going to have after two and four years. That's what the minister never said and he doesn't know it. Will it know that we will have fewer employees, that there will be less isolation in health, not that there will be better health care. And secondly, the transplant is the minister's success. The transplant of fellow Strickic is the success of the minister but the success of all those people who work on the transplants that work hard and don't watch their hours. And when we talk about teachers working on Rebr, then your oncologist was studying with those teachers on Rebr. Therefore, you cannot compare pears and apples.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53580	And Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53581	This way, fellow Strikic, it is an incorrect quote or it is completely false or, to be perfectly clear to you, it is a pure lie that I have ever told in this House, even two years ago, that all doctors in Croatia are corrupt. You lied. I was talking about a system in which corruption is necessary in order to exercise the right to protection. So when you come to buy bread, you don't need to corrupt a saleswoman to sell you bread, because you're going to get bread anyway. Maybe you'll wait a little longer to get two, three buyers before you... In a system where corruption happens, so that man can exercise his right, that system is not right. That's what I was talking about, and let alone saying that all doctors in Croatia are corrupt. He didn't think about it, let alone say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53582	And Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53583	It is incorrect that counterpart Strikic said the reform is making excellent progress, says we have introduced order. The most difficult patients, I did not get an answer from the Minister himself, or the Secretary of State, which is with the most difficult patients, who can't get in line, so oncological patients, can't come in order to achieve radiation, have to go to Zagreb or Split and wait for months. And that's where you've really brought the order. Order has been waiting months for them to gain. Many go to the grave before that order of yours. That's where you really put the lines and the lines. And you say, also incorrectly, that everything is paid. It's just not true. Ask nurses who have not been compensated for overtime for months, years. Eventually, they get some kind of unpaid day off, but that's not respected either.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53584	Replica, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague here, I'd like to replicate the treasure of someone who knows little and so would a colleague who gave you the correction of an incorrect quote. In fact, this whole debate isn't about these laws that we're supposed to discuss today, it's all about the other direction, but then it's about... What were you talking about? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the colleague, or minister, did not import the vaccine because it was intended to be introduced to that extent, but precisely because he set up a team of experts and epidemiologists and infectors and recommended by the World Health Organization. And colleagues don't correct and probably pretend they haven't heard from the president of the Health Union who says doctors are fighting for as much money as possible, and they don't care about the quality of their patients' health care. So when we talk about quality and conditions and even maternity conditions, there can be no child born in the conditions in which they existed at this time and we know what they exist. And the truth is, what you're saying is, health reform is really going, and it's incorrect that many people wait for months to come for radiation. Give your colleagues a name and a last name, so who's been waiting for months to come to the radiation and they'd rather die than be helped by a doctor. ... Bring that notebook. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53586	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the esteemed MP you've noticed well, and I'd sort of agree with what the esteemed representative Ingrid said once in a while for radiation is waiting. Well, of course, because it hasn't invested in new equipment in 15 years. Well, the minister detected it after 3 months when he started reforming and created money for linear accelerators, 9 accelerators are bought so that everyone will have more... So let's talk about, let's say once the minister that the problem is, he's waiting for radiation. It's objectively waiting because there's no more machines, no doctors, no appointments. Ask Professor Turic, he also works night shift at the Institute of tumours. There's no camera. The minister detected it, secured the money, the tender is over, goes to purchase, gets nine linear accelerators. So why don't we tell the Croatian public that it's a success of Croatian reform, that it's a success of health reform and you'll say in your Zadar with pride I raised my hand to those accelerators that you don't have to go to Split, that you don't have to go to Zagreb and wait for 3 months. Well, if we talked like that then we'd have even more success, but then you have to admit that we're successful, and that's very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53588	Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, deputies. Well, I'm sure if our fellow citizens see us, or our citizens, they're as sad as I am, especially after what my colleague Strickic said we can't say we're jealous, but it bothers us that this is a good health reform. It is saddening for fellow Strickic to ask the ultimate users, our patients, and also colleagues who think about health reform. I am aware that times are difficult, that health reform is very difficult to make, but we need to objectively look at it. Just one more thing before my debate begins, I'm going to say very briefly about the sonic maternity home. I'll tell you the truth, I gave birth to two children in Sinj, in a home of health, and that's for sure. But there is a specificity, and specifically ministers you know the specificity of a tradition that is 300 years old and we can't fight it. And I must mention here that there is a consensus in Sinj both on the left and right and the consensus and on the churches and all so that they will provide funds for these birthplaces to remain, that is to say, in Sinj small Sinjans are born. Now here's a very brief review of some of the provisions that have been incorporated into this law. I'd like to start with the doctor's extra work. In his presentation, the Secretary of State said that this is essentially a key issue in other countries, i.e. that this area is not sufficiently defined and that, of course, this is not the goal of removing additional work but of actually allowing additional work, but of quality doctors. To me, the right to tell you, it is not clear how you will determine these quality doctors. You mentioned that this is a way of eliminating the gray zone, but I would not say that in such a way we can easily accuse doctors who seek better and better every day and under impossible conditions to provide health care to our citizens. However, such an approach must not work, that only institutions that have a contract with HZZO are allowed to operate are in breach of the provisions of the law where other insurance houses exist in the Republic of Croatia, but also the equality of the competition. I have to stress here that this applies particularly badly to dentists. You know they rarely get dentists specializations and fellow specialists do jobs in companies, private offices, and the basis of work contracts. Therefore, it is far from that promise that the HZZO monopoly will slowly be abolished, i.e. that equality and fully private health institutions or companies will be respected. The changes relating to the concession have already been laid down by the regulation of the end of 2009, which is already being implemented, so it is nothing new but the amendments set out in the regulation are being introduced into the law. The legislative proposal also regulates how the number of concessions for which it publishes the notification of the purpose of awarding concessions is determined. However, I understand that health homes as founders or owned counties and that the concession can not work in health homes, but health homes as the property of the county means place in the network gets without concession. Homes of health and private offices actually provide the same kind of public service, hence doctors in private offices are actually brought into an unequal position. The question is what is with the right to inherit or inherit the right to concession. Next in order to rationalise the business and network of health institutions, this law also regulates the accession of the Croatian Institute of Mental Health to the Croatian Institute of Public Health. The Croatian Institute of Mental Health, as far as I know, is not operating in the public health service network, but the departments for prevention of addiction and extra-patient treatment and improvement of mental health have been established. What would be good is that it's not a topic of law now, but to review the necessary mental health teams by county. I would also refer to an article that speaks in the essence of what activities the Croatian Institute of Mental Health is doing, and, among other things, states that it plans, proposes, implements measures to preserve and improve the mental health of the population and is listed there to be further monitored, studied, reports on the mental health of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. I don't know why the mental health of the defender is particularly isolated, because it could also be talked about the mental health of other vulnerable marginalized groups. It might be good to add that especially vulnerabilities and marginalised population groups. In this way, defenders and other vulnerabilities are included. Today we heard on several occasions that very often it came, in fact there were many amendments and additions to the law. He's also a professor. Hebrang said that this is positive precisely because it follows the waist and thus changes. However, I wonder if they have been consulted in the proper manner of the chamber. Whether the chambers gave important questions consent or whether it was just an opinion, rather than a real agreement. I'm going to think about trying and making mistakes for a little while. Let us remember when another compulsory health insurance was put in place, that means that private insurance starts to build or have its own health system, and then the greater and richer the parallel health system is bigger and more comprehensive. Many would leave the second insurance due to various privileges or, say, the most controversial part of the reform that was, which is that only the working population has the right to choose their own compulsory health insurance. Of course, there would be a parallel public-health system in the country that was not based on solidarity as it was in all other public health systems. Today would actually still be a problem, and that is a basket of health that is not defined. Actually, it's a package we deliver to the citizens. That's why people are very often confused, so there's a fight, so you have to rule because there are conflict situations between doctors and patients. Then we could actually determine better, more realistic, more objective supplementary insurance because we would actually see what's outside of that basket. There is a further problem of prevention especially in dentistry. There is a problem, there remains an emergency problem, or dental emergency has not been solved. And there is one big problem that I hope is the Minister and Secretary of State, which is the health care of children with special needs especially dental health care. You know that dental care of such children often requires general anaesthesia. You are also familiar with the fact that only in Zagreb we have in Dubrava is doing it and I think in Split that waiting lists are as large. However, another problem arises, and that is, if we had a place, the location where it would work would be abolished are pedodonts, or child dentists who are actually the most competent to work with such children. Mr. Minister, I hope you heard me even though you spoke. And what's left? It remains that citizens feel uninformed, they do not know what their rights are, what their obligations are. There are vaguely defined chieftains. And right now, what I'm telling you, I think you wrote that down, and I expect an answer to that, or I expect an improvement in that direction for patients like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53590	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members of Šimac Bonačić, you said that our citizens are very sad because they feel nothing about reforming the health system and that they are uninformed. I'd say the citizens would, if it weren't, of course not. Because I'm asking you how sad we would have been if the health system had collapsed, if it hadn't been for the start of the health system reform. Is the reason to be sad to reduce waiting lists, health care in the house, drug availability, everything else, so you say in that part of the dental problem. I've known and remembered for a long time, too, and I don't see that dentists in any part are kind of cut off. I also see specialization in my environment, and the chieftains are regularly, etc. With prosthetics and all the other circumstances, of course with all due respect. So I'm holding that certainly does not stand this quote of yours that you cited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53592	Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53593	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. And neither before, nor today, we don't agree on whether what we're talking about is real health reform or not, whether what has been achieved so far is some positive shifts or not or are negative. I would say that somewhere from the very beginning when it was announced that it was moving towards health reform at the very beginning was not actually achieved or during the course of the implementation of what is called health reform was not actually a consensus. And that is obvious, and we obviously need to make peace with each other together, because unlike you in the ruling coalition that you have in your hands, instruments or means of reform, we, in the opposition, feel that what has been done so far has not been done in a good way, or that it is primarily in one part going towards those who are still weaker parts of our society, and this is also seen by the proposal to amend and supplement the laws that are here today before us. In particular, here are the policies, i.e. payment of supplementary insurance, who will have free of charge of the supplementary insurance or not. At a time when the law was passed in Croatia by rulings, the word crisis should not yet be spoken. I always tell you that, and I'll always tell you that again, and then it's gone wide and it's been shared who's gonna have all the extra insurance for free, and now that it's not going to work like that anymore, then first to the team that might be most needed and Mr. Minister, you can't deny that it's not like that. Furthermore, there is no consensus for another reason. You remember when there was a package of health laws, when we asked as an opposition to go in two readings, you rejected our requests went into one reading, no amendment was accepted, several months later going into changes and additions of certain laws. What I can conclude, therefore, as a person who is a non-medical parliamentary representative, is that you have entered the reform yet unprepared, under-teamed, and I would say with insufficient strategic predictions what could happen and what measure you are proposing and trying to implement is actually taking place at all. What has been achieved so far is that for the first time, contributions from certain pensions have been charged, that two million, about two million citizens in last year, started to pay additional health insurance, which the truth to the Croatian Health Insurance Office provided 10% of the budget, but ended in business 2009 with a huge loss. Speaking of waitings, waiting lists, I think the main problem is that no one has ever said what it means is that some waiting list is too long, for some sort of review, and what is the limit that should not be crossed. So today we have an average waiting in April for a total knee prosthesis of 412 days, for a bypass of 394 days,... For 286 days, Holter Monitoring 128 days, magnetic breast resonance 196 days, brain magnet 157 days, and a private with a manual can go when it is found that the list is too long, waiting list. [[You don't understand.]] Please answer when and who determines that some waiting list is too long for some sort of review. So these are all things that we should really seriously sit down and talk about and Mr. Minister give the right answers to that. What I wanted to ask in particular, I must say that I remained amazed by one sentence of the State Secretary, when he explained the proposal, so at the very beginning when he explained the proposal to amend this law, it was about amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, in particular the abolition of the State Institute, or the Croatian Institute for Mental Health and Decision, so through this law that the activities of the Croatian Institute for Mental Health entered the Croatian Institute of Public Health, and in some ways the two laws are being joined, because it says in order to rationalise the business and network of health institutions, and the secretary said at the outset, and the institution did not live anyway. By the way. Mr. Minister, the Croatian Institute of Mental Health was scheduled to be established, was it not? Among other things, it was intended to adopt a national strategy or a national plan to promote mental health. Moreover, the European Commission's report on Chapter 28 on health care, inter alia, states that Croatia intends to set up a Croatian Institute for Mental Health. Secondly, the intention to adopt a national plan to promote mental health is particularly welcomed. I lost more than two or three hours surfing the Internet all afternoon looking for that national plan thinking I missed it somewhere, the government, someone brought it somewhere. No one's ever brought it. And then after so many years of saying that the Croatian Institute of Mental Health has neither worked nor brought anything back to life, now we will do everything that is like the Croatian Institute for Mental Health of Employees or I don't know what, it all says, that it will be transferred to the Croatian Institute for Public Health. What he's actually going to switch if he hasn't even brought that office back to life. In particular, I am talking about the Croatian Institute of Mental Health and the problem of mental health itself, because in the national health development strategy you also wrote that the diseases of the neuropsychiatric condition were second in a row when it came to the burden of disease on the health of the population, and that is right behind the diseases of the cardiovascular system that are participating with 27.3%, in second place the diseases of the neuropsychiatric state are 23.2%. A quarter is estimated according to the World Health Organization, a quarter of our planet's inhabitants suffer from mental disorders throughout their lives. It is predicted that somewhere around 2020, depression will become the second in line on the list of leading diseases, and it is not necessary to mention how good mental health is important for the functioning of one person, important for its narrow or wider environment or how you will, especially since it is something that is actually affected by both biological and psychological and social factors. Then there's also talk of a bad climate... There's also talk of violence, there's talk of conflict in the family, about the unsupporting environment, about stress at work. [[You don't understand.]] Is it necessary to interpret and talk about the importance of prevention of mental health, about the importance of warning that mental illnesses are caused by among other things and stress at the workplace, especially in these times, times of crisis, and very important? The World Health Organization recommends that mental health should become a priority in national health programmes, and these recommendations are followed by the European Union and, among other things, I believe that we are headed for the establishment of the Croatian Institute for Mental Health, i.e. planning to adopt a national strategy. Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to try to give your answer a slightly higher answer than the Secretary of State gave. And I would ask you to answer me who is responsible for the provisions that existed in the law, not being done, not being carried out? So the Croatian Institute of Mental Health is said to have failed to revive. I don't know if that means, as far as I know, he's the basis, as far as I know, someone was headed by this Croatian Institute of Mental Health, and why is this particular institution on the list of those who are moving from the list of state institutions? If we talk about financial savings we will hardly save anything when it is established at the same time, the Croatian Telemedicine Institute is scheduled to be established. And in conclusion, why did you leave in Article 33 that mental health institutions remain state-owned if by this law you abolish them and put them into public health institutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53594	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Sonja Simunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague, when you mentioned the waiting lists, I actually have one clue, maybe one question, and here are our esteemed representatives, so maybe I can answer. I read these draft laws on amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and now says here questions that are regulated by the insured person bear the costs of health care used on a personal basis outside the waiting list and within the health care standards. Now it means, as far as I understand it, I come to the doctor, I do some tests, let's say I wish I could still make an ultrasound of the abdomen and wait for it, the doctor tells me if you pay me, if you sign that your personal wish will come right up and I'll make you an ultrasound. It's okay on the one hand, but so on the other hand I may not even have some indication for which it is, and that ultrasound of the abdomen is necessary to me, and on the other hand, patients who don't have money still remain on the waiting list, still can't get in line because I jumped in before them. So, is this how the richer layer of citizens and patients is being favoured again, and how much further does this institute of solidarity and access to health care affect? Or, say, another scenario that is possible, comes a retired woman who doesn't have money for a doctor and, say, needs an ultrasound of her heart. And now he's waiting for five, six months, she can't wait that long because she has to do it in, like, a month, and then the doctor tells her if you sign a statement that it's your personal wish and collect the money again you'll come to order tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. So, until the other day we were telling patients come to my private office this afternoon and I'll do it for you, and now we're saying the same thing, we're not just saying come to me privately, but come to the hospital and we'll do it. Did I get that right or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53596	Replication response, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53597	So like this, you sort of further explained what I asked. So it's true that waiting lists are being created. They're long, it's true that those who can afford to pay without even pushing on that list, or ask which one might be in turn that they, they had it yesterday, they have it today and they'll have it tomorrow. The basis lies when someone who does not have the money to pay for private money, when they can know that they will be able to get a manual with which they will be able to perform a search in private, so regardless of the waiting list. That's the problem, you talk everywhere about waiting lists is it'll be long, less long, is it 200 days short? Is 400 days too little or too small? So it's not clear who it is that determines, which says the view of the breast is maximum, we can say that it will wait 30 days. Everything above that gets a manual and goes private. That's what no one wants to say, not for that or for any other review.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53598	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53599	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I will speak here today as a patient. I've been suffering from first-type diabetes for years, insulin-dependent, and I'm a Top Wolf patient. You are planning to connect "Vuk Vrhovec" with the clinical hospital "Mercur" which was discussed in a very negative context by the associations of diabetes patients, and I believe that with certain appeals you have also been addressed by the employees of "Vrhovec Wolf". The reasons why you decide on this gesture, that is to say, that decision to merge "Vok Vrhovac" and "Mercur" clinical hospital are financial savings, and you said that those two hospitals actually only share the wall. I think that these are absolutely insufficient reasons for bringing these two institutions together because "Wolf Vrhovec" is considered one of the best reference centres for diabetes in the world and I think it might be a real tragedy if you realize this intention. I would like to point out that "Vok Vrhovec" has been an institution that has worked since the 1970s and that "Vuk Vrhovec" has been building with their money associations of diabetic patients. It's an institution that works very well, it's a financial institution, so it's not in debt. She has a balanced budget, the staff, they can emphasize it from their own example, extremely motivated, it is educated both in the country and abroad. "Vuk Vrhovec" performs a constantly very high quality scientific work and "Vuk Vrhovec", i.e. specialists and specialists with "Vuk Vrhovec" and their works are very, very often quoted in numerous foreign magazines. This is ultimately recognized because "Vuk Vrhovec" as I have already highlighted the reference centre for diabetes and represents a Croatian model of health care, so even an export product could be said. In some parts of China, exactly the way the work is done in "Vuku Vrhovac". If the merger you announced occurs, it should be emphasized that "Wolf Vrhovec" will lose its category of the reference centre, which poses an extremely high risk to all patients being treated in "Vuku Vrhovac". For what? In the treatment of diabetes as you probably know very well, it is extremely important to keep the disease under control. To keep the disease under control, you have to have a very good chance of controlling that disease of yours and it's just been made possible through the means of conducting different tests on "Wolf Vrhovac". Not only in a biochemical laboratory that conducts a whole series of specialized tests but there are also a whole series of other services provided by "Vuk Vrhovec" to its patients in a really very, very good way. I'm sorry that what I'm saying today is not interestingly respected ministers, regardless of what the Associations of Diabetes have asked you not to do, so here I am sorry that you feel you don't need to listen to my debate. You probably think it's been heard a lot of times already, that the director of Vuka Vrhovci is also a job memo in which you've read it all, but you'll still stick to it because you think you'll be saving it, I don't know how much you plan to save about a million kunas, which is also not quite as well calculated as well as I've seen, because it's about the savings of abolishing the directorship and the biochemical laboratory in a very disputable way. I would like to stress that the biochemical laboratory Vuk Vrhovec receives 60 thousand patients annually, not only from Zagreb, but from all over Croatia, to conduct 950 thousand different tests and measurements, and this is very, very important in the control of diabetes. Because your diabetics, diabetics, can give you very good guidelines based on just these research how to keep you going, that is, to examine how you continue to run and manage your illness. I personally went through the daily hospital program at Vuk Vrhovac, I was also lying in the clinic myself, or in the hospital department, and I can really say that diabetics, the diabetic Manja Prašek, have been extremely helpful in the management of the disease itself, and I am very concerned that all this will happen now after you connect or abolish the biochemical laboratory of Vuk Vrhovec and determine that all of us patients and patients of Vuk Vrhovec must conduct their studies or conduct their studies at the Merkur Clinical Hospital, which among other things does not perform all the tests that are carried out on Vuk Vrhovac. What can we expect because of all this? We can expect an increase in the number of complications caused by diabetes, and we know very well that the treatment of these complications is extremely expensive. So if we're going to save some million kunas here, I'm asking you if you've made any assessment of it, how much will the cost of health increase if it increases and it's realistic to expect to increase the cost of treating people who've improved the complications caused by diabetes? If you have these research and research, and I suppose that the basis of each of these well-designed health reforms would have to have such data, I would ask you to present these data, because this is the way I think I'm afraid that the consequences of diabetes will be a much greater burden than what you two get by joining these two institutions. I would also like to point out that Mercury Clinical Hospital, as far as I know, is a loss business while the Wolf of the Supremes is a health institution that operates financially positive. And the question is whether it is a model of Croatian health care that those institutions that are of quality that are successful, which some point reference model in that whole story, should be a model for all other health institutions in Croatia to be punished in this way because they are doing well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53600	Thank you. The final review of Minister of Health and Social Care Darko Milinovic is available.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53601	We'll start at the end. At first, it is not true that I did not listen to you, especially when you said at the beginning of your address that you would speak as a patient. If it seemed to you at some point that I wasn't listening, I was sharing data with my colleagues and let me not be the kind of capacity that I could have all the data in my head, so I exchanged some information with them about what you asked for an answer. So, I listened very carefully to you as well as everyone else. It is not true that patients' associations were against the merger of these two hospitals, so this is also the last debate at "Open" last night where they were the State Secretary and Director of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. I will repeat one sentence sent to the Secretary of State and the Director of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, we have not been sufficiently informed, I will link up perhaps they have been misinformed. But if that's the case, then there shouldn't be any fear for us patients. I assure you from this pay phone in Parliament that absolutely here you will have to come again, unfortunately, because of the nature of your illness at the Vuk Vrhovec Clinic, the only thing that will change in your treatment will not be able to come to Director Vuk Vrhovec, but to the head of the Vuk Vrhovec clinic. And it is completely false that the Vuk Vrhovec Hospital will lose the reference centre because on Rebra you have several clinics that are the reference center each for its own territory, so the Vuk Vrhovec Hospital will remain a reference centre in the future. And there's a series of illogicalities when I mention colloquially I say hospitals that touch the wall. But I'm going to tell you one example, here, if we're going to mention that today, the treatment of every disease is multidisciplinary, especially the complications of diabetes. Let's take an example that we have a person A that we're not talking about the name and last name that's at Wolf Vrhovec Hospital today under this kind of health care system. And a lot of complications with diabetics, let me mention gangrene. And now at that moment your doctor in Vuk Vrhovec asks for a consular examination of the surgeon who is not there, then a surgeon 20 meters away comes to the consular examination, and that's not the problem, and you know where the problem is, the Wolf of Vrhovec must pay Mercury a consular examination of that doctor. What's going to be reorganized, so I'm just telling you little things? That surgeon will come because he lives, works in the same hospital, and we won't have that extra cost. On the other hand, you were there and you were probably having breakfast, lunch, dinner. You know where you got that? From Mercury. And you know where the problem is? It's not the problem that you got from Mercury, it's the problem that Vuk Vrhovec had to pay Mercury. This is a double cost. This is the cost of Mercury and the cost of the Wolf of the Supremes. Also, it doesn't match the truth or whoever informed you, let me know, so I'll tell you that he misinformed you. It's not true that "Wolf Top" and thank you for admitting one thing, that the budget is balanced you know when, when the reform of the health system started and I'm glad you said that, that you said that because it's true. But it's not true next, that Wolf High is doing business without loss, and Mercury is probably because Professor Hebrang is doing business with losses from there. The truth is next to you, so don't talk and imply that "The Wolf of the Supremes" that doesn't create losses will join "Mercuru" that creates losses because it's not true. Now, let's go there together tomorrow. Well, I'm calling one at a time, so we're going to go over there and see what's true. At the start of the "Vuk Vrhovec" health system's reform, he had 8 million kunas in his debt, and now he has 4 million kunas in his debt, he cut it in half. The same as Mercury Hospital last year and Mercury and Wolf Topvec failed to meet new obligations and that is the truth. Also, a biochemical laboratory that's 30 meters away has absolutely no reason, especially in today's information that at 20, 30 meters we have two laboratories and now what's going on. One lab that's, why don't we just say both brains and people concentrated in one place. Is it gonna be at the Wolf of Vrhovec or is it going to be at Mercury about it will be said of course by a new hospital management. I thank you for all the debates. I'll try to answer some questions. No one has the right to insult, and that's not even in the description of the representative's speech. I've got one from here too, so I don't know what to say on that sentence that I'm proving my political power on the body of women. It is inadmissible to anyone to say, and I could return that Mrs. Assembly MP who is not here right now, I could say the same, you were proving your political power on the body of Croatian pregnant women, you abolished maternity leave and in five years there were 10,000 fewer children born. And then when I return to you, and that's the same argument as this, then when something comes back, it's not right. As far as transplants are concerned, counterpart Mrsic said it is not now that something good is not the merit of reform, it is the credit of colleagues. Now let me remind you, during the time and I agree we should not go back in time, but I will remind you why the transplant program failed during the SDP's term. Because the transplants were paid from the hospital's budget. Professor Andrija Hebrang is the first to remove the payment of transplants from the hospital budget and today we have a special item for the transplant program that we have, by the way, increased actually by 32 million kuna this year. And that's why today, here it was, actually yesterday was the day that we marked today, which is why even today the director of Eurotransplant said that they were surprised by Croatia's success in the last two years in a transplant program that continues to invest a lot, that according to multi-organic transplants we are the world's first, best in the world, that we have reduced waiting lists 30% and thus increased the number of transplants 30%. But at the time of the difficult recession year, we invested an additional 32 million kuna. I can also ask a question and why you haven't singled out the payment of transplants and not burdening the hospital system, hospital restrictions as well as medical insemination and as it is with transplants. Gentlemen, if there's anything we can do, and I especially ask Miranda as a doctor and you as a health profession, I'll tell you one sentence, thank God you gave birth to a son's maternity home. But God forbid it's during your birth, and no one can guarantee it to you, there's a firing handle, there's a leak, there's a crack, there's an asphyxiation of the child, so let's just say who's not in the profession, a child when the umbilical cord doesn't get enough oxygen because of the umbilical cord. At that point, if you're in a maternity ward that doesn't have an operating room, you've lost your child, and your life is at stake. I'm in here if you need to kneel, pray, don't politicize on it. You think it was easy for me to tell in Sinj's maternity home she can't work anymore. It is not true that, in 2007, it was the professional control of the chamber and they told local self-government you have to solve this problem because you do not meet minimum standards. The Director of the Health House in Split and the County of Đakov also requested inspection supervision. What am I supposed to say, after that inspection inspection, no, no, I don't care. I beg you, I beg you, I am not ashamed to say here, I beg you do not politicize in that matter. Help, and the Ministry of Health is investing additional resources to give these women in both Imotski and Makarska and Djakova and Sinj the same birth conditions, to give them the chance to have the same birth conditions, but you do not mention it. For the same reasons a few years ago, and I supported it as a doctor, as a profession, the birthplace in Otočac was abolished, and now I will tell my Otočica because you often mention Gospić, but I guess that's why, let's not politicize now, so I won't move on, so the birthplace in Otočac and Senj has been abolished, not in Sinj, but in Senj for the same reasons. But gentlemen, once again I say, I beg you, don't politicize on that thing. I'll read this to you to hear my pleas. She passed away last Tuesday shortly after being brought from a maternity ward that I banned from working on the inspection report. He found out in that hospital where, I won't mention the names or the hospital or the birthplace or God forbid the woman, that the child has already died, and despite the attempts of resuscitation, they haven't been able to save either mother's life. Now look, so please, colleague Mrsic especially you as a doctor, you who are in the medical profession. It's the cause of death of the uterus rupture and bleeding. Gentlemen, I'm a gynecologist, I was in a situation where I saved the lives of such women and thank God only because I had an operating room. My wife died, and with her, our unborn little girl. Do not collect political points on fates where 1,000 births can occur in Sinj and say thank God. One of these cancels 1,000 joys, 1,000 families. And that's why I was forced, understand me, understand me. That's why I was forced. Well, if for political reasons, I were to question it, so of course, if you want the political body is closer to Sinj and I don't know the Imotic HDZ than the SDP. Well, if they were for political reasons, I'm sure you'd close your eyes a little bit more. But when you read something like this, then what we swore when we got a doctor's degree is binding on me. But it obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to find and we have found the means to arrange this birthplace, to create an operating hall and I will be proud to come along with you both to Sinj and to Imotski and to Makarska and to Djakovo and to open that maternity home. But we have to have very clear standards. It's not about the Department of Mental Health, look, we're investing 24 million kunas and they're integrated into the County Public Health Services. The truth is, the Department of Mental Health at national level didn't function. But today we have 37 teams that are integrated into the County Institute for Public Health and that is why we did not cancel it, but we have joined the National Croatian Institute for Public Health. We have a very developed network of these teams, 37 teams per county where both psychologists and psychiatrists and nurses are. You're talking about long waitings for radiation. Well, of course, because of the long waits, we went into health system reform and invested 300 million kunas in 10 new linear accelerators. The average age of linear accelerators in Croatia is over 10, 15 years and 400,000 inhabitants are one linear accelerator. How can we reduce the waiting list? In times of crisis, recessions buy them new 10 linear accelerators to come to the European Union average. That way we can cut the waiting list. But let me tell you. We can't do that. No one's got a magic wand, and that's gonna happen tomorrow. That's what's gonna happen. Here we have these days the first linear accelerators we'll open and be at our patients' service. It's a health system reform, it's recognized by this government investment, and that way we can, of course, reduce the waiting list. And the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, I don't know now I wrote I don't know who said, it's not true, I have to say that in 2009, it ended with a loss. It is the first year in the history of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance where income and expenditure are even. As much as that year was reduced by 290 million kuna. And in the end, I'll say here's the esteemed representative of Šimac Bonačić, you said you were born in Sinj. It's very nice to me, and you probably feel like I'm glad. But yeah, well, I'll say it on my own example. I have two daughters. I'm 21 years old, and here's if God says he's gonna be a mother tomorrow. And that I bring my daughter to a maternity home and that I have nothing to do with medicine and that the doctor who runs the birth of my daughter says this: dear Dr. Milinovic, you will soon become a doda. Now, if you happen to have your daughter, your child's umbilical arm, toss your head, you may lose your grandson and your future daughter. If I have to choose from any tradition and this to choose life, I will choose this second. And that's why I'm begging you at maternity homes, if anything, and at maternity sites dear friends we can't politicize and we can't collect political points and that's especially anyone who's inadmissible. And once again, we'll do everything we can. I am asking for this help and local communities to arrange these maternity homes and that perhaps at the end of the year we say proudly both in Sinj and in Makarska and in Djakov, women will be reborn but under full treatment that today's profession is satisfying. Here I thank you and finally the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts two amendments I think one club and a Committee on Legislatives. I thank you for this debate. There's been a good debate. There have been hard words, but let's say hard words when it comes to health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53602	Two corrections. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it is incorrect if you put two hospitals together in this case that you were telling Mercury and Vuk Vrhovac that you would cut costs if you did a certain service in Mercury. You are a doctor and you do not need to know the financial business or the accounting business. And I'll tell you why it's not true. The cost will remain the same as it was. If Mercury in this case invoices a service for, which he has done, there is a certain cost, he will achieve income, he will be at zero, so he will have the cost, he will have income. The one who pays will have the cost. The cost will always stay. There's no double cost and you can't cancel it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53604	And Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53605	So correcting two incorrect allegations. First of all, it's about the transplant that she started with this administration. That's not true. Look at the kidney transplants. And why is the momentum of the transplant in Croatia at the moment, we have entered the Eurotransplant, we have more donors, therefore this is the reason for the transplant and it is clear that finances are one part, but the greatest progress we have made in the eurotransplant. So it's the merit of people who do transplants. And secondly, when we're talking about maternity homes, as far as I know in any of the maternity homes that you closed, there was no incident, nothing happened, therefore the maternity wards if you wanted to close in 2006, but you didn't, and... the question why in Sinj, which has all the conditions to open the birthplace, he lacks only the personnel, why it has not been done. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53606	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. with a debate on the final proposal of the Law on the reduction of pensions, which are made according to specific rules in pension insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-26-0.u53607	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance. The emergency procedure was P.Z. Number 541. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Health Insurance Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by a majority of 94 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 3 against, together with the amendment adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the 18th session and move on to the agenda point - - Proposal for a Law on the reduction of pensions of certain, i.e. according to specific rules on pension insurance, with the Final Bill proposal, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 545 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Djuro Popioac, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
