ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56626	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The final proposal of the Census, Households and dwellings Act in the Republic of Croatia regulates the content, preparation, organisation and implementation of the census and list of households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011, confidentiality of census data, obligations of state and other bodies included in the list, rights and obligations of citizens as data providers and participants in the processing of data after the implementation of the list, publication of census results, and financing of the list. In particular, I would like to stress that the list of persons who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, foreign nationals, and stateless persons who have their residence in the Republic of Croatia is at the time of the list in Croatia or abroad, and persons who have their residence in the Republic of Croatia at a critical time of the census. So that's the definition of the population that's being written in terms of this law. The 2011 census will be implemented from 1 to 28 April 2011 as from 31 March 2011 at 24 hours. The list shall be carried out by persons who are qualified and authorised to carry out the list in two forms in 2011. It means a list or data on persons, and a questionnaire for household and apartment. The obligation to provide accurate and complete data shall be established. Asked questions about the national and religious identity of the person covered by the list can be freely made known, the list is offered and the answer is not spoken. The answers will be entered in the Croatian language and Latin letter, and members of national minorities have the right to obtain insight into the viewing copies of the form in their language and letter. The provisions of this Act lay down the obligation of the censusors and other persons participating in the list to keep the data collected by the list, which relate to the family, personal property opportunities of the persons to be listed permanently as an official secret. The provisions of the Official Statistics Act shall apply to the protection of the confidentiality of individual statistics collected by the list. In Articles 12 to 14. The laws are taxed on all data that will be collected on persons, households and apartments. Article 15a, in accordance with the European Parliament and Council Regulation of Europe on the census and housing and regulation of the European Commission, and with the recommendations of the European Statistical Conference for the 2010 census, are taxed persons who will not be included in the total number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. These are persons who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia but at a critical moment of the census are absent for more than one year or intend to be absent for more than one year, and do not come to the Republic of Croatia weekly. The exception is diplomatic and military personnel of the Republic of Croatia, together with members of their family regardless of the duration of their absence abroad. It will also not list persons who have a place of residence in the Republic of Croatia for less than one year and do not intend to stay in the Republic of Croatia for more than one year. Students studying abroad regardless of their frequent arrivals in the Republic of Croatia with the exception of students who cross the border daily. A list of preparations, organises and implements the State Statistics Office in collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice, in such a way that these ministries will list persons within their facilities and in their jurisdiction. The preparation of the implementation of the census is also attended by the State Geodetic Authority, which is required by 15 January 2011 to produce and submit all the technical documentation necessary for the implementation of the list to the State Statistics Office. The State Statistics Office will publish the first results of the 2011-30 June 2011 census and final results according to the publication programmes and calendars of the publication of statistics over the next few years. In view of the methodology of the census set out in this Act, the official results of the census are not the basis for comparison with other state records kept on the personal status of citizens. The total cost of the 2011 census is EUR 174 million, which is secured in the 2010 State budget and will also be secured in 2011 and 2012. These provisions also determine the infringements which constitute a violation and determine the fines for those offences. In line with the above, the Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia so that this extensive statistical work can be done at the scheduled time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56627	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56628	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here in about a year's time, we may know more exactly and more about the number of fictitious voters in the Republic of Croatia, which is indeed commendable. In fact, the fact is that data from the census in the last few years have mostly been used to argue that we have a list of voters that is incorrect, which is bad, which does not correspond to the real state. And this fact that there is one great need for building up from comparing the results of the census and some other state records shows that something is wrong. Now, it is true that the census is conducted according to a different methodology than the voter list, but still in some parts of the Republic of Croatia and the records are comparable and have relatively normal relationships, which is that the number of inhabitants corresponds to about 85 to 90%, i.e. that the number of voters corresponds to 85 to 90% of the population, and somewhere this is not the case. So we're going to have another big and big job involving 17, 18 thousand people, and we're going to get just statistical data and then we're going to make sure again that in some parts of Croatia the state of the voter list is illogical and how many we actually have, so we're going to get new information on fictitious voters, although we can already know where they are. I'm saying this among other things, and because in some election laws, the number of residents or lists, the number of people in the list of grounds for making some other decisions. In addition, the ruling coalition's opposition to the Bosnian and Muslim statements and their treatment in the election law is also the reason why one of the coalition MPs called the management minister. It is also a fact that data from the list of voters and data from the census as regards members of different nationalities do not match, so many do not match and there is a mistake. I am also saying this because, under the new legal provisions, members of the national minorities will have the right to two votes on two ballots in the elections, and what they can at this time have a significant impact on the overall result of the elections. Therefore, all these misunderstandings that exist in the census, and it is the basis for determining how many national minorities have the right of MPs and how they will be divided by election units. So it's an important thing and it can't just be one general answer that it's not about the same records, it can't be over it. Therefore, in some parts of the Republic of Croatia these records are consistent, and in some parts they do not match. And it's very clear why, and it doesn't always have to be justified every time, that it's done by different methodologies, because then neither in Varazdin nor Čakovec would it match. That's one thing to emphasize. Therefore, we will get a census, and according to the fate of the second reading of the Law on residence, the list of voters will still not be obtained properly. Census censuses are therefore carried out in Croatia traditionally already once in 10 years. For statistical purposes only, this provision may be published aggregately and in a way that prevents the identification of the individual to whom the information relates. That's good. However, when the aggregated data is published, which is significant and what makes them stick to the eyes, it is then for the state institutions to verify what makes such a big difference. In fact, it is impossible to say that one unit of local self-government lists the number of households, which is three times the number of households paid for, etc. Therefore, it is no doubt that individuals who provide data are protected, but when data is published, they need to do something to do that data if it significantly differs from other records, so that those services dealing with these records do something in that sense. Also, there's one more thing to point out. So now there's a public debate on how much it's going to cost a referendum, this one for the Labour Act. There were all sorts of numbers mentioned, I think 170 million was one number that was said and insisted on, by the way. And now we come naturally to one official document, which is the Bill on the Census, which says that the census on the State Statistics Institute will cost 161 million 417 thousand kuna and that the State Geodetic Administration will still have 13.5 thousand kuna, which means that it's about 175 million kuna if I calculated it at a speed like this. So now to see just how much this story about the cost of the referendum was blown up, we're going to compare these two processes. So here, 17,000 people a month go to each household and ask people one 30, 40, 50 questions, it has to be published, it's published after a year because, of course, all of that data needs to be calculated, then it has to be counted, it has to be published, put into some tables, and it's all going to cost 175 million kuna, and this is going to be carried out in one day by a referendum, so with only one question where people aren't going to go home and where we've already made a list of voters, so it's going to cost according to some estimates of 170 million kuna. So now we see how much these evaluations of the costs of the referendum were political and how much they actually served as political cosmetics to distract attention from other, more important things. The SDP club will support this Law on the implementation of the census. We therefore wish to obtain accurate information about all the important indicators of Croatian society, about all the important statistical indicators of Croatian society, but a country that is able to make a census according to all European standards must be able to make a list of voters according to all European standards. Unfortunately, that's not the case yet. And the fact is that it has been six months since the first reading of the Law on residence and residence of citizens, it has not yet come to the final draft of the law, and there is no indication that this could happen soon and in this sense we regret that we will have the correct census and the incorrect list of voters still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56629	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's Madam Representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56630	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The census of households and dwellings is one of the most comprehensive and complex statistical surveys due to the large number of participants and numerous preparatory actions that the State Statistics Institute and other bodies participating in the preparation of the list should carry out within specified time limits. The population census, which will last until April 28th, begins in the Republic of Croatia as of 1 April 2011. This will require that around 175 million kuna be allocated from the Treasury. 15 censuses have been conducted in the Republic of Croatia so far. According to the last census in 2001, Croatia had 4 million 437 thousand 460 inhabitants. Of these, there were 2 million 135 thousand 900 men and 2 million 301 thousand 560 women. The highest population was between 45 and 49 years old, with 333 thousand 576. According to the Law on Official Statistics, the State Statistics Institute is the main holder, disseminator and coordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia. The 2011 census is an integral part of the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008/2012. and the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. The aim of each census is to establish data on the number and territory of the population, and on socio-economic structures of the collected characteristics. At the same time, data will be collected on demographic, ethnic, educational, migration, economic and other characteristics of the population, and changes will be made to the 2001 census. The list will also determine the number of households and families and their composition according to the number and other characteristics. Data will also be collected on the area of land used by categories and livestock, as well as on the number of apartments, their size and equipment, quality and age of the housing fund at all levels of processing. The law we have today will list Croatian citizens, foreign citizens and stateless persons who have a residence in Croatia, whether at the time of the list in Croatia or abroad. The census will not cover persons who have a residence in Croatia, but are absent for more than one year. Those who have a residence in Croatia will not be included for less than one year and do not intend to stay longer than that, as well as students studying abroad. The data in the list are collected according to the statement of the person who gives them and are particularly protected as an official secret. Each country implements a list for its own needs, but in order to comply with international obligations and to achieve comparability with other countries it must respect and apply international standards. In addition, each country shall, in the case of methodological preparations for the census, seek to ensure a methodological continuity with the previous list, because it may, only by means of results other than the condition, establish the changes that have occurred. So far, the practice in the lists has been applied by the principle of so-called the permanent population. A person could be present or temporarily absent at a critical time. In both cases, it is shown in a settlement where it has a residence as a permanent resident. In the 2011 list recommendations, the definition of the usual place of residence is used to determine the total number of inhabitants of a specific geographical unit. The definition of the total population is extremely important in the international context in order to avoid the same person being included in the total number of people in several countries or left out in all countries. The country's total population is considered all persons who have their usual place of residence in the country. According to international standards, the usual place of residence is considered the place where the person lives and spends most of his daily, or night vacation regardless of whether the village is registered and regardless of the short-term absence from the village. By adapting this definition to national legislation, the usual place of residence is considered to be the place of residence, i.e. the place of residence of the person, meeting the criteria of presence or absence for years and longer. This is therefore the basic criterion for the inclusion or exclusion of persons from the total population. Exceptional persons are absent years and longer, which at least once a week come to the residence, so-called. Weekly migrants. The total number of inhabitants of the country of origin, in accordance with international conventions, includes diplomatic and military personnel of the Republic of Croatia, and members of their families staying abroad with them regardless of the duration of their absence from the Republic of Croatia. The total number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia will not include persons who have their residence in the Republic of Croatia, and at a critical moment of the census are absent for more than one year or intend to be absent for more than one year and do not come to the Republic of Croatia weekly. People who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia for less than one year and do not intend to stay in the Republic of Croatia for more than one year, and students who study abroad regardless of the frequency of arrival in the Republic of Croatia with the exception of students who cross the border daily. Here in this place we at the HNS club, HSU see a huge problem. I'll tell you from the example of my county what we're getting from this bill. So we get weekly migrants, parents who work for example in the Republic of Croatia and who come to their home once a week, and they enter the total number of inhabitants, and their children who, for example, study in Slovenia, if they do not come to their home daily will not be able to enter the total number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. I think that the proposer here made a huge mistake, no matter what on the board on this remark, the answer was that we have brought our legislation into line with the regulations and regulations of the European Union. I also hold at the HNS club, HSU we hold that all provisions and recommendations are not necessary to take over from the European Union's property, because by taking over this provision we bring residents, for example Huma to Sutla, Pregrada and all my cities and municipalities whose parents, whose children, for example, work and study in Slovenia into a very, very strange position. I would ask the promoters to consider it even if it is possible for this situation to change because it is unsustainable to us. And another, maybe another thought. We are like the country we all know in the crisis, in recession, and I don't think it would be worse to think about the models used by some countries that have democracy, even for many years than we do in the Republic of Croatia, and the census is conducted in a way that has at least two steps. In the first step to the addresses of all families, i.e. the population of the country, a questionnaire is sent with questions that each citizen is obliged to answer, and upon a paid reply to return. The second step would be if the official censusors were given instructions to those addresses from which such a response had not arrived. I think that would be a big contribution at this point, when the whole business is costing about 175 million kuna, so I'd like to think about that proposal too. The HNS club, HSU, will support this proposal of the Law on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56631	Thank you. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56632	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. On page 1 of this Bill on Census, I quote that the recommendations of the United Nations or the recommendations of the United Nations provide for a 10-year period of frequency of the census, which is a compromise between the need for relative and current data and relatively large financial resources, which are necessary for the census itself. Now that the relatively large funds needed for the census are being talked about here, I am now livingly interested in whether someone in the government will say as in the case of a union referendum, the census is costing us, so what's the list, because all the data we're going to collect in a year anyway we already have collected on different grounds. On the 4th page of this opening part of the law, these costs are discussed, so it is specified here that the total for the implementation of the referendum, the pardon of this list will need to provide 161 million 417 thousand kuna, and this amount will be allocated in such a way that in 2010, the budget will provide an amount of 2 million kuna 120 thousand, 2011 amounting to 146 thousand kuna, and in 2012, another 13.2 million kuna. Local elections, we had a state auditor's report, I don't know why the ruling majority is replacing it, and according to that report they cost a country of 150 million kuna somewhere. If so, then a referendum could really cost between 70 million and 80 million kuna. In the elections, it is local, there were 39 thousand people involved in the election committees, and this list should be provided or better put into effect by 17 thousand people who should certainly be adequately paid. The aim of this regulation is to establish data on the number and territorial layout of the population, as well as on the social economic structures of the collected characteristics, at the same time the data will be collected in the demographic, ethnic, educational, migration, economic, other characteristics of the population, and changes will be established in relation to the 2001 census, etc., etc. The list will determine the number of households, families and their composition, according to the number and other characteristics, the area data of the agricultural land used, and not to list any further. We'd be de facto if he lived up to, say, the OIB, we could already have that data through him. The MUP also knows how to keep data for all older people from 14 years of age, school, maternity care, etc. they have this information, if we had a system of land books, a garnery related to tax administrations, we could, though I'm against that property tax, and that list or better to implement and tax property, in one word a census of the population can serve us, although it clearly does not serve it, and as a large list of properties in the Republic of Croatia, better to get one property card, both countries as a whole and every citizen of this country individually. Article 14 of this Act literally states that the list of dwellings and other housing units referred to in Article 4(3) of this Act will collect the following data: type and manner, use of a residential unit, ownership of the apartment, area of the apartment, number of rooms in the apartment, surface of the kitchen, bathroom, toilet in the apartment, type of installation in the apartment, method of heating of the apartment, type of energy, air conditioning, type of building where the apartment is located, position of the apartment in the building, etc., so when we talk about that property card of a nation or citizen through such a single form can be calculated very easily and the value of such a property can be calculated very easily. It is interesting whether or not this law compares with the voting rights of persons outside, say, the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps, as Mr. Bauk has appealed to it, he will clear the voter lists on this list. Perhaps these electoral lists will finally be arranged in this country. It is also good that 100% of this amount of money for the implementation of the census is provided in the state budget. On page 15, there are criminal provisions, and here among other things, it is said that a fine of 300 to 800 kuna will be fined for the violation of a person who refuses to provide the information required by the censusor or another authorised person for the census. Or if you give incorrect or incomplete information. A fine of between 4 and 20 thousand kunas will be fined for the violation of the census or other person authorised for the census if he or she submits data other than the statements of the person covered by the list in the register or questionnaire for the household and apartment. I am keenly interested in how to treat those citizens of Istria County who will regionally declare themselves Istrian. Whether they will pay a fine of 300 kuna or will pay a fine of 4 to 20 thousand those who will not be tolerated by such a sense of originality. All in all clear this law is a law of technical nature. This law is certainly necessary, that amount of 161 million kuna is not small money to ensure that the state provides that 161 million kuna should, I don't know, sell someone 700 million kuna, I'm talking to a shoe, from e.g. 300 kunas to secure that amount of 161 million kuna through that 23% VAT. Or in order to secure that 161 million kuna money in this country should be sold 2 million 333 thousand 333 shoes of 300 kuna. And I think that every thing in the budget in the future is going to have to be recalculated because what opportunities are in public finances is simply not going to work out differently. We will first have to see clearly how much it costs and how to make money for this thing in order to redistribute it to this Parliament or to the Croatian government later. It's clear, everyone will support this bill, and it will be supported by the IDS club. The law is necessary, no one has any objection that this law of a technical nature is adopted. The job should be done safely when it comes to the census, property, etc. It is necessary to engage as some 17,000 activists are listed here, and I want to believe that they too will be adequately paid. A colleague from the SDP said that the census would likely resolve an enigmous list of voters, which I would honestly doubt. Not because you wouldn't want IDS, SDP, and some other guy, but it doesn't seem to fit someone else. Croatia is finally the only likely country on a globe with more voters than the population. It is clear that I am also the same that BiH citizens who want to do so in future water in the list as Bosniaks. After the amendments to the Constitution when they were challenged, the introduction into the Preambul Bosnjak after '98. For the first time in years, these citizens of ours will be able to plead by the name of the Bosniaks. At least that's what I think it is, so I'm reading the intention of this census and it should be made possible for these people and for people who want to declare themselves in Istria. It is clear that the lists of voters should also be harmonised even though I say it will be a vis-a-vis lack of political will in this country far more difficult. What I find also good to consider is Mrs. Danica Hurse's proposal from the HNS which suggests the idea of implementing the population census in two steps. So first, if it were to be delivered in writing to home addresses where each household’s questionnaire would be made clear again, and then it would cost how much it cost to visit all these homes so that the questionnaire might be carried out again in some way. All in all, the IDS club supports this law, and we want to believe that even the censusors will carry out this obligation in a proper, civilized way, which the legislator will do for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56633	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Government, from the State Department of Statistics, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a Law on List of Populations, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia. According to these data that are here, the list should cost about 175 million kuna in total. And 17,000 censusors and those in the list organization would cost exactly that. I'm not going to repeat a referendum on the ZOR bond and its price not to make any more politics here than the policy we're having here, but I have to look back on this law. He is indeed when it comes to what is written and the data is very exhausted. Although data that we possess through the OIB would also provide information on some of the parts covered by the list of population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia. However, I do not think that it is worse for these data to be processed and made available in comparison with these data that exist, which are available through the OIB in the administration of the Ministry of Interior, land books of grantshops, etc. A census of 10 years ago, so in 2001, he found that 4 million 437 thousand inhabitants live in Croatia. What interests each of us is, in any case, a parallel between the 91st, 2001 and 2011, so that we follow what is happening in the living tissue of the Republic of Croatia. Someone mentioned this list of inhabitants and the age pyramid of life, which unfortunately seems to me year after year or decade after decade, takes the ever thicker form towards the top, according to the age group over 40 and far more, so that our life pyramid becomes actually a left-handed one. Whether this trend will continue, it will clearly be made available from the data which the censusors will make available on the basis of the implementation of this legal proposal on the list in 2011. I was present 20 and more years ago in a list with a similar name, though in that former state, and I was at the time when the censuser came in one would say today to the family-agricultural economy. I have to say that the reference person, as it says here, the head of the house, the head of the household with no confidence gave information about what he owns. And clearly there's a list of real estate, land, a list of cattle large and small, according to this. Namely, the peasant, or in the direct example that I quote, expresses his mistrust, because he always thinks it's related to tax obligations, taxes, etc., and I must say that on that occasion, I, the knowledge I had, saw that he had given different knowledge. I hope that this will not come to our census, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia and that these data will be accurate. In Article 20 of this proposal, the law states that the preparation and implementation of the list within its jurisdiction shall be attended by the State Geodesy Administration, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice, but it shall be my proposal and one such that I do not say a recommendation, a remark, that in any case, such as a list of residences, households and apartments as well as that the data collected by the censusors and the State Electoral Commission shall be included. I have already spoken from this pay phone many times about the intention of hurting anyone, of the State Election Commission being able to make an effort, and of making an effort to arrange the list of voters. Here, I think this is an opportunity when we are already singled out, our taxpayers singled out 175 million kunas for the census, households and apartments that these facts that will be introduced into the forms will take advantage of the State Election Commission, to finally take out a list of voters before some future entry into the European Union. The list will be in 2011 and when it will be entry, but I believe and I am convinced that it will be after the list of voters, how long it is hard to say. Mrs. Hursa, who spoke here about students studying in another country, in the border area of Croatia, Slovenia, I think that article 15 says the correct answer to her question, although it is your duty to exempt students, so they will be registered as residents of the Republic of Croatia, although they do not come weekly, so on weekends in the place of residence. This is Article 15(2) and (3). The specificity of this census is some new issues that I have seen here that will be addressed to those who will be listed, which is the knowledge of the use of computer operations, it seems to me that in previous lists there has not been, therefore, the possession of a personal computer, the use of the Internet. And it is good that it is included in those issues that will be asked among others to the inhabitants of Croatia. In any case, all that is covered by the census is one comprehensive matter and it will be interesting to read in some way when we don't already have those who are responsible, to tell us about the state of the nation, perhaps this report will be arranged and arranged after half a year or a year will actually be one real representation, a picture of the state of our nation and the state of Croatia. Therefore, there is no reason not to support this proposal for a law on censuses, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56635	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Danica Hursa, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56636	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Grubisic, who says Article 15 gives an answer and gives the possibility to enroll students in the total population in the Republic of Croatia. That's incorrect. Article 15 speaks: students studying abroad regardless of the frequency of arrival in the Republic of Croatia with the exception of students crossing the border daily. So, students who do not cross the daily border, and there are those in our Republic, especially in my county, and I cite family, so parents work and return weekly, will be enrolled, and their child who studies in Slovenia if he does not come daily to Croatia will not be. That's what I was talking about. My colleague Grubisic, you did not interpret Article 15 of this Law well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56637	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. It is the turn of the HSS club, distinguished representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. 15 censuses have been conducted in the Republic of Croatia so far. Since 1961, according to the recommendations of the United Nations, the census has been working with a 10-year gap. According to the Law on Official Statistics, the State Statistics Institute is the main holder and coordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia. In its jurisdiction, the preparation and implementation of statistical activities and the fulfilment of international obligations of official statistics. Each country shall carry out a list for its own needs, but in order to comply with international obligations and to achieve comparability with other countries, it shall respect and apply international standards, i.e. those recommendations. In accordance with this draft law in the Republic of Croatia, the list will be implemented from 1 to 28 April 2011 according to the state on 31 March 2011 at 24:00. The accession of the European Union requires that all parts of the legislation be harmonised, as well as those relating to official statistics. It is thus arranged that the recommendations of the European Statistical Conference for Census and Apartment Lists, prepared in cooperation with the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe and the Statistical Office of the European Union, EUROSTAT, will be relevant for the 2011 census. Subject to the draft law, the content, preparation, organisation and implementation of the census, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011, confidentiality of census data, obligations of state and other bodies included in the list, rights and obligations of citizens as providers of censuses and participants in the implementation of the list and processing of data after the list has been implemented, and ultimately publication of census results and funding. For the 2011 list, complete mandatory content to be taken over by all members of the United Nations, i.e. the European Union, in order to collect and include all the data provided for in the tables jointly defined by the UN and EUROSTAT, while more than 50% of the characteristics were downloaded from the electoral content. What is the difference with the legal solution so far? In 2011 the total number of Croatian residents included all persons who had residence in the Republic of Croatia, who were present at the time of the census, means on 31 March 2001 at 24 hours or were absent abroad for less than one year, and those who were absent from the country for more than one year were included those who had a strong relationship with the country's households. Namely, they came to the country weekly, monthly or seasonal. The 2011 list recommendations use the definition of the usual place of residence which is crucial for determining the total number of inhabitants of a specific geographical unit. There, above all, is thought of land, region, settlement and so forth. The same definition of the total population is extremely important in the international context in order to avoid the same person being included in the total number of people in several countries or also left out in all these countries. The position is to apply the concept of the usual place of residence in 2011 and in line with international standards for the definition of the total population. The usual place of residence is considered the place where the person lives and spends most of his daily or night vacation, regardless of whether the village is registered and whether it is a short-term absence from the village, as we can say. to go on vacation, travel, treatment, visits and the like. According to the concept, the country's total population is considered all persons who have their usual place of residence in the country. The list of populations, households and dwellings is the most extensive and complex statistical survey, given the number of listing units and the number and diversity of responses. For the implementation of the census, a large number of participants are also required; more than 17 thousand are actively included in the list and many preparatory actions are to be carried out by the State Statistics Office and other bodies participating in the preparation of the list. Significant financial resources are also needed. To finance the 2011 census business that will be carried out by the State Statistics Institute will need to be provided in the budget of around 161 million kuna, and for the financing of operations to be carried out by the State Geodetic Authority it is necessary to provide 13.5 million kuna. And finally, the HSS Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56639	Thank you. It's the SDSS club, the distinguished representative of Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56640	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start this debate about this List Act with two bad experiences from the last list. Not to enter the technology, but when it comes to the result in 2001, a refugee was listed outside the Republic of Croatia at the chance of 50,000. It was done not so volunteerically, but in agreement with the State Statistics Institute and the entire apparatus of the list but these data ended up in the basement in the archive, they did not enter the total score of the list. In a later debate, I'll try to explain what's wrong with it and why I'm saying this at the beginning. Another negative experience is the choice and training of the censusor. She was such that there were inadmissible examples that people passed by someone’s door and did not list them because they did not understand that obligation well. I suppose even if they weren't clearly told it's a responsible job that can't be played. Now, why did I say that? Well, I said because you can talk about the coverage of people, the coverage of people listed or unwritten in this population list, and in this round, it can be problematic. Here, the law found that one who has a residence would be registered on condition that he was not absent from Croatia for a year. I understand the explanation that this is a European criterion and I respect that. That's what he said I'd set the criteria for the situation. When we talk about refugees and when we talk about returnees, we don't have a situation that arranged, and I think there's gonna be damage and that's why I'm saying this or that I'm warning you about. It's about the next one. Refugees and returnees are in some kind of transition, in some kind of return process. They are, or can be determined or difficult to determine are or are not absent for a year and it is very possible that according to this criterion they will not be covered by the list, and in fact they are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is their intention to enter the entire Corps at the end of both the list and their orientation. This is important because many of their rights and status are dependent upon it after we have completed this list. I'm going to add this, the census results, we're talking a lot about residence here, the census. These results condition the exercise of a number of rights and condition the achievement of important laws such as the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and some other regulations that I do not bid here right now. That's why the issue is important here, and if we don't pay attention to it and if we just stick to this European criterion that we found on that list, then a lot of people will be wronged, and I don't think we're really or won't respect the existing situation that we should respect. The other thing that includes this law has been established. That's one part of the data or one part of the people and what's listed will be listed, but don't enter the records. It's connected to what I just said. What does not enter into the record may be subject to manipulation from the point of view of, for example, the treatment of the facts of the Constitutional Law or the view of the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. And this is about, like, vulnerable categories, and that's why it's for us as minority representatives, which is why for minority groups this is an important piece of information. If in the process of the list if the legislator, if the State Department of Statistics, if the methodology that would be done or if the instruction that would talk about how it would be implemented would have full sensitivity to what I'm talking about, then probably these damages I'm suggesting would be less. But the experience we have so far is kind of an easy solution. Well, in many of the situations we've been involved in, and easy explanations warn that that's not exactly what's going to happen. Thus, various situations in which this issue of residence, absence, return are possible, whether or not we have found or found this censusion relationship toward the individual people we list. I exchanged a few sentences with you yesterday, and you told me this law, literally like this, this law when you read it carefully answers questions that you're worried about. I understood what you told me. I must admit, even after reading this law, I have not acquired an undivided belief that these dangers that I warn of are realistically possible I would even say certain. Now there's something that I think is important. If the Ministry or the State Department of Statistics is going to work on a guideline or determine the rules of the game, or determine the way of the list, and then, with that instruction or documentation that regulates the methodology or guarantees a good approach to all of this, I am very afraid that this will not work out so well, but I am very much afraid of experience and because of some common superficial relationship to this kind of work, I am very afraid that it will not work out that way. We would also be interested in taking part in the talks when the methodology is established and the documentation that determines this methodology is brought forward. As much as possible, I wouldn't want to get involved in your business, but I'm saying that from the point of view that it's kind of a joint task. I'm, what I'm saying, I'm saying on behalf of the National Minorities Club, because our president is in charge of me, and by the way, I'm going to ask one more thing or I'm talking about another thing that has a form of a question. The law states that both the list and the results of the list will be published at some time. There's some concern that it could be in a year, but it could be in three years. I point out that simply because the results of the census, I said earlier, determine the criteria for implementing laws concerning minority communities, and that is why I am now mentioning it here. Of course, the Census Act must be passed and, of course, the Census list must be carried out, but once again I say I am concerned about the negative results and even more about the negative consequences that can arise if this thing is done sloppyly, as it has been done in certain segments so far. I repeat, this problem of refugee and return should be respected, and it is particularly important for censuses to draw attention to this segment and these situations so as not to put people in an unfavourable position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56641	Thank you. It is next to the HDZ club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So I would also like to point out that when it comes to the census, every country does and implements in the first place for its own needs, but it is also necessary to highlight the fact that, in order to comply with international obligations, I repeat international obligations, as well as the achievement of comparableity with other countries, each country must respect and apply international standards based on generally accepted recommendations. Namely, our current practice of showing the official results of the census was applied to so-called. Or it was accepted so-called. the principle of a permanent population. At the time of the census, the person could be present or temporarily absent at his residence. I stress that the new principle, i.e. a new recommendation dating back to 2010, determines the use of the definition of the usual place of residence, which becomes the key to determining the total number of inhabitants of a specific geographical unit, while implementing this principle guarantees that the same person should be included in the total number of inhabitants of several countries, or be left out in all these countries. According to this concept, the country's total population is considered to be all persons who have their usual place of residence in the country. It is with that definition, and based on that definition, that definition of the usual place of residence, that will include the total number of residents in the first row or under one person living in their place of residence at least 12 months before the time of the census, and two persons who came to their usual place of residence for at least one year. The adjustment of the definition in question to national legislation is considered the usual place of residence, i.e. the place of residence of the person with the satisfaction of the criteria of presence, i.e. the absence of years and longer. Therefore, this is the basic criterion for the inclusion or exclusion of persons from the total population, with the exception of persons absent years and longer, if they come to residence at least once a week, etc. Weekly migrants. As regards the specific provisions of the law, therefore, the very techniques of the census itself, and what in particular means, in the technical sense of what is specifically recorded, which data are taken. This is, of course, regulated by law and absolutely in methodological and any other sense should be supported. Finally, it should also be noted that, of course, this law or legal project is challenging, whenever it comes to the census and the corresponding financial resources, which are not small, so only for this financial year in this respect should more than 2 million kuna, in 2011 about 146 million kuna, and ultimately with 2012 amount of 13 million kuna. In line with everything exposed and here I will end up thinking that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community absolutely supports this bill of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56643	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56644	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Article 15 of the proposed law governing persons who will not be included in the census. I understand the problem because Article 15 applies equally to foreigners and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Article 2(1) of the Law. And I understand that the census will not include foreigners who stay less than a year or stay less than a year in Croatia. However, in order to have a more accurate census, should the citizens of the Republic of Croatia still be included in the census from the conditions set out in Article 15? Examples were, for example, daily immigrants, or students. Therefore, the difference between foreign nationals, foreigners and citizens of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as set out in Article 15 of the Treaty on the What good will we do if the citizen of the Republic of Croatia who lives in Croatia is not included in the census for less than a year? I suppose the wish of a census is to get as accurate data as possible. For this reason, I believe that Article 15 should indeed make different provisions on foreigners who, on the day of the census, or on March 31st, run into the territory of the Republic of Croatia and nationals of the Republic of Croatia. And it's possible for me to do that, and it's important that we get as accurate as possible. Secondly, to speed up the list, to make it easier for the censusors to work, and to prepare the population, I think it would be extremely useful, it's not the law, it's just ideas for you from the Bureau, that the list will be published earlier in public so that those who give answers to census questions will prepare as many data as possible. Examples of the square of a single room in the apartment. I want to assure you that many will be caught up in such matters. If they do not know in advance what questions the censusors will ask will be harder for them to work, the process will last longer, and this will cost more. It is also good for those who make a list of smart people to prepare in such a way that everyone can know in advance any question that the censusor will ask to prepare for their answers. For example, the area of arable land. Somewhere people will give answers in hectares, somewhere in the ularies, somewhere in square grips, somewhere in square meters. What a local custom it is. And I guess you'll have a standardized measure for the area of agricultural land so that on the spot you don't need to recalculate from one unit to another. That's just my suggestion. Second question, Mr. Secretary of State, will the Croatian Parliament adopt the Housing Act before the census? I believe that the adoption and adoption of the Housing Act is a prerequisite for the implementation of this law. And this Law on residence so far has several times ended its discussion in both the first and second readings, so it has not come to adoption or has not come to the second or final reading. Always for similar reasons and remarks that this law has experienced. I believe that it is indeed high time to pass a regulation in Croatia, a law in which we will determine "Day D" when there will be no more different status as a consequence of war, from exiles, refugees, displaced and on the other hand, asking how many years after the war we will still be dealing with, that is, having problems and implementing the law because of these statuses? If we had done so earlier, perhaps today in the debate in this law, we would not have had the same problem as in the residence law. For the same reason, the law fell once, the second time the first reading, so there is no other reading, and I'm afraid we won't have that law again until the day of the census. Third, can we get information on the number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the census and the exact data on the residents of one country? I asked four years ago for data on the number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then the data was that I received 8 million and 700 thousand. I think it would be equally important to settle the list of citizens' books because in this figure of 8 million and 700 thousand people of Croatia who are resident in Croatia, but also abroad, so everywhere, I don't believe that the methodology has changed significantly, so on and so on. active and passive citizens. Active citizens are alive and passive dead. It might sound a little funny, but it's true. At this point, no body, and deny me, the state authorities have no record of the number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who would be approximately accurate and not more than 6 months old. So with the fact that we have the number of voters equal to the number of people or slightly larger, we have twice the number of citizens of the population. As a result of bad regulations and even worse book keeping citizens' books. But it's not about this subject I just used on the way to mention or warn about the fact that with the data on citizenship and citizenship and citizens we stand badly and very badly. I heard somewhere that spending a census would cost money. Of course it'll cost. So if we have and we have accepted the standards that every 10 years we make a census, then we have to make peace with the fact that a regulated state has to finance both such activities and instead of cost, talk about good government. All that is in favor, everything that brings benefits, all that regulates certain things we declare a great cost, and so this census of the public we try to show, unfortunately some of us or some of us who are dealing with it, at an additional new cost to the state budget. All that the state does, and the population list for the sake of the state, is cost. I see this cost as spent money for something useful, but by the way, a third of that cost will return to the state through tax, to the citizens' receipts, the censusors and all those who will participate in the census so that the 160 million immediately real cost can be reduced by 1/3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56645	Thank you in 10, 44 timed out to report a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Agent Daniel SRb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. This is one Law that can have exceptional importance for the future development of Croatia if all the advantages that come from the census are exploited. The question was, in fact, whether we prepared adequately for this list, whether we adequately applied all the information given by the previous census, whether the Croatian economy, the Croatian education system, are using all the data that should plan Croatia's future and development. In new issues, are the very issues that the Croatian economy needs so that it can plan its own development in the best possible way. But from it and questions relating to the needs of the Croatian economy for a specific qualification structure of employees for the next 10 and 20 years, respectively. I must say that I do not have the impression that in an adequate way the existing data from existing lists are used, but it is certain that Croatia should organise a list of households and apartments in the best possible way, that it should be an effective process, that it is looking for its resources but it can be cheaper. My question is at this point why is it being implemented in a technical sense today is planning its performance, in the way that it was done 50 or 70 years ago, why it is not working online for example as a state prom, for those who are informatively written, for those who do not have a variant B proposed by a colleague of Hursa, there is also a variant C to go to households, but far the cheapest would be when it would be done online, and there are already enough information written people by household to solve it. Perhaps this census is the last opportunity for Croatia to get real data on victims from 2. World War I. So these issues could also be contained through issues that are being addressed by the household list itself and to come up and then to the right relevant data, the question is whether Croatia can do this more in about 10 years and get relevant data on victims from 2. World War I. Finally, this Law has the consequences of the census itself, has great consequences for the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, because certain rights arise precisely from the census, and therefore this is unusually important. We have also seen representatives from the ranks of national minorities, but the question is, in fact, what are the censuses of the population if the results of that census are not applied in practice but certain rights are guaranteed on the basis of the agreement, possibly between HDZ and HSS, that the lists of voters are relevant, rather than the lists of the population for the exercise of certain rights. That is why Gajica's colleague expressed some concern, I believe that such a fear has no place, does not have to be afraid of the SDSS Club that in any way in Croatia, members of the Serb national minority will be in a bad position, it certainly won't, they have very good guarantees for it. What needs to be provided to Croatia is as cheap as possible, as effective a list of populars that should provide relevant data that can in the best possible way then affect Croatia's development in the coming years, and I hope and want to believe that the other state bodies of the economy and other institutions will also know how to benefit from the population list itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56647	Thank you. Mr. Representative to Milo's Schwartz.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56648	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on censuses, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 with the Final Bill of Laws. It is the most comprehensive and complex statistical research in terms of the number of censusing units and, diversity, modality, response. In the area of today's Republic of Croatia, 15 censuses have been conducted so far, the first census was conducted in 1857. During time two. The World War had not been conducted since the war of 48, 53, and 61, in line with the recommendations of the United Nations, with a ten - year gap in 1971, 1981, and 1991 and 2001. The recommendation for ten-year frequency periods is the result of the compromise, the need for current data and the relatively large funds needed to conduct the elections. The last census in 2001 was first organised and implemented independently in the independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia. According to the Law on Official Statistics, the State Statistics Office is the main holder and coordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia. Its competence is to prepare and implement all statistical activities and to fulfil the international obligations of official statistics. The 2011 census is an integral part of the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012 and of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia. The subject-matter of the bill shall regulate the preparation, organisation and implementation of the rules, units and contents of the list, the time of the census, the processing, storage and publication of the results and the way in which the funds for the census are provided. The aim of each census, as well as the 2011 census, is to establish data on the number and territory of the population. At the same time, data on the demographic, ethnic, educational, migration, economic and other characteristics of the Croatian population are collected, and changes that occurred over the past 10 years will also be identified. Data will also be collected on the area of used agricultural land by categories and livestock funds, as well as on the number of apartments, their size and equipment, quality and age of the housing fund, at all levels of processing, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, at the level of counties, cities, municipalities and settlements. According to this proposal, the census will be held for 4 weeks from 1 to 28 April 2011, but according to the state on 31 March 2011 at 24 hours. In order to carry out the census, the budget of the Republic of Croatia needs to provide financial resources of 161 million kuna 417 thousand. I agree with those debaters who said this is not about cost but about something that is needed, which will benefit the Republic of Croatia, its population. The funds are provided within the framework of the Financial Plan of the State Statistics Institute over three years, but the largest amount in the year of the census, i.e. 2011 For the 2011 list, the recommendations of the Conference of European Statisticalists for the 2010 censuses are relevant, drawn up in cooperation with the European Commission for Europe and the Statistical Office of the European Union. The recommendations for the 2010 census use the definition of the usual place of residence which is essential for determining the total number of inhabitants of a specific geographical unit, country, region and settlement. The same definition of the total population is extremely important in the international context in order to avoid the same person being included in the total number of people in several countries or left out in all countries. By Regulation 763 of 2008. The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union shall establish common rules in the collection of data on the population and dwellings during the 10-year period and shall also describe the definitions which the countries are obliged to apply in their lists in order to ensure that the data are internationally comparable. The State Statistics Office is obliged to publish the first results of the 2011 census by 30 June 2011 at the latest. I'll support the adoption of a bill on the list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56649	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56650	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try to analyse this Final Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia. Previously, as well as my predecessors, as well as a colleague who spoke on behalf of the SDSS Club, I believe this law should be supported. In his concept, he is, in our assessment, such that he would be a good basis for creating a methodology for the census not only of the population but of the list of all the goods needed to create some kind of, behind which one quality blood image of the society that I think we're missing right now. In addition to the obligation of the European Union, and it is related to some agreed deadlines, this activity is in any event also the need of Croatian society today, especially if we see that this will result in a cross-section of the situation in the livestock stock, agricultural conditions, the exploitation of agricultural land, etc. It is therefore logical to expect that these data should then be not only one ordinary dry statistics but simply be an element for tomorrow and for the creation of certain strategies in the development of agricultural production, a strategy at the disposal of housing funds, etc., etc. Therefore, I think that this job should be done and therefore probably interested in this debate because we believe that this text as proposed could be in some parts, could be done in some ways to ensure that all interested groups for the implementation and implementation of this job are fully satisfied. When I say that, I mean certain provisions that I'm about to point out. First of all, I think it's good to comment on article 15. In his paragraph 2, he says, defines which categories of the population will be excluded from this list. That's what my predecessor used to say. So it will be those persons, so those residents by definition of Article 2, those residents who at a critical moment of the census are absent for more than one year in the Republic of Croatia. So, I don't know maybe I didn't get this well, maybe there's some other interpretation here that I'd like to hear, but the way we'd understand it from that category will therefore be excluded for a list of people who weren't in the Republic of Croatia the previous years, which is a category of people who are covered by the programme of return, reconstruction, housing etc., who definitely don't have the ability to return physically to their homes that haven't been restored yet, and are still in refugee centres and can't physically come to a list for a moment where their residence should be. In the previous list, we tried to make some kind of compromise or do these people a favor, so we did a list of these people. Some 45,000 people were listed in this way, but the list was not included as official data for reasons that it was not made by authorised censusors. So we think that there's a good reason here to find the development of this model of Article 15, and we're here with some of our experiences, some of our additional ideas. This definition of what it is now like if it remains final I think it will abolish a certain category, a certain population of people in the realisation of that right to be listed as citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, here I am going to say something about Article 7. In Article 7(2), we say that the question of the national, religiousity of the person referred to in Article 4 of this Law may be freely declared. Anyway, this is one definition that's pretty vague. It provides an opportunity for someone to make a national statement, to specify that it is a specific nationality. However, in the field, executioners, therefore, did not point to this possibility, so a number of people in their ignorance did not become national. Therefore, we have also commented on this in a national minority club in a way that we have said that perhaps this definition could be replaced by some more appropriate term that would in some way oblige the censusors to warn people that they have the right to declare their nationality at the time of the census. In Article 9, we are talking about the category of absent persons. So, the data is given by whoever is present. Those who do not find themselves will be obliged to enter the list by 28 April 2011. I just want to warn here that we now have a situation on the ground that one family member has returned after five years or more and that he is waiting for his family to return. So, to acquire all the conditions that are necessary to live normally and until it is acquired unreal is to expect to complete a family on the ground. So, to stop schooling somewhere, he comes to half the school year, etc. For a list of voters. I therefore warn that there will be a situation where many people will be unwritten, or that they will have to make a statement later. I also immediately warn of the criminal provisions of Article 45 which have provided for penalties for persons who do not respond to this call in writing within that prescribed time limit. The true penalty is 800 kn, but 800 kn is someone's significant money. Therefore, I ask that, in this context, a little consideration be given to this exception to this criminal provision of Article 45 for the category of people who were not found on the critical day of the census and for objective reasons could not respond on time. Article 21 states that the basis of the census is other than the census, so all of those other elements that are relevant for the creation of a blood count of the society are data from the official registers of units of both state and state geodetic administrations and county (regional) units. I'm just warning here that we consider this a very important thing, because complete credibility of data is an important thing for a real list and the result of this list. Why do I say that? Because on the ground we still have a situation of usurped property, usurped properties, orchards, vineyards, we have a situation of usurped apartments and if it is a relevant information that will be entered as a founding state then it will not be fair or fair, nor will it be a credible data for the statistical census. In this sense, I warn, therefore, people who, the censusors should be instructed in a way that controls especially in those critical areas that we know are happening and that there are knowledge that there are such situations that the censusors keep an extraordinary account of it. And at the end of time, it's running out. I would like to commend this financial part of the regulation, because this is one of the few regulations that has elaborated the financing of the implementation of this regulation to detail, to the kuna. I think it's a good example of how you should seriously think about the cost side when you go into such a big procedure. I think it has already been said on behalf of the SDSS club, my predecessor said that we would support this law, and I am sorry that there are no Serbian colleagues here to tell him that I thank him for the great concern here at the pay phone shows for the Serb national minority. It never ended well for us. But, well, that's his right, so what can I do to him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56651	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Management Pavle Matičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56652	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for the debate on the final bill. I thank you for the support given to this final bill. I would just like to draw up a preliminary statement once more as the draft law has shown, and the debates that are being held here show that this final draft law is based on our national legislation, especially the Law on State Statistics, and also on the other hand, on the basis of the rules of the European Union. These are the regulations which we have already mentioned here in Regulations 763 and 1201, which are regulations of fact, because they are not recommendations but also directives which the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adhere to if we want to have comparable data with other European Union countries. In this respect, this proposal for a law has also been drawn up, taking into account these directives and attitudes and criteria. According to that, and the definition... on the question that here the criterion is the place of dwellings, the usual place of residence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the criterion. It's not a criterion of residence, residence, citizenship. All these other criteria aren't, it's not a census criterion. Therefore, it is also defined in the law that not only the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also foreign citizens, persons without citizenship and who have residence or who are abroad at the time. In that sense, the definition also defines this criterion in students. This is the position that comes from these rules of the European Union and that is how it is defined by us. So if our data were different then they would not be comparable to data in other European Union countries. Finally, to say that, also that census data can only be used for statistical purposes. So it can't be used individually for the exercise of some other right, or for comparison with another citizen's personal status record, but it is, rather, used for aggregate analysis of statistical data rather than for the individual exercise of some right. Finally, as the law requires, in particular, the adoption of a full set of guidelines by the State Bureau of Statistics, for the implementation of this law and for the preparation and preparation of certain education, so that part of the observations made in this debate will certainly be possible to clarify or discuss within the framework and in the process of the production of sublegal acts. And finally, Mr. Vice-President, an amendment to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56653	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56654	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2011, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 578, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments of the Committee and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the proposal for a law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to be made aware of the amendments to the SDSS's Club of Representatives. Mr. Pavle Matičić, State Secretary. Amendment to Article 15(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56655	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Government does not accept the proposed amendment for the following reasons. In this way, the definition of the total population, which is in line with the European definition of the total population in accordance with the European Union Regulation, would be amended. Those regulations regulate a way to ensure that each person has one and only one usual place of residence, in international contacts it is of paramount importance that... persons be included in the total number of inhabitants in several countries or not be included anywhere. Furthermore, the derogation from the definition set out in the European regulations would doubt the credibility of the census results and could jeopardise the status of the negotiating chapter 18. Statistics, which was temporarily closed in October 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56656	Thank you. In the name of the Club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gaica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56657	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, the objective of our amendment was to protect persons who were absent from the Republic of Croatia from this time as it was determined by the Law or in part. But they are absent not because of their choice but because of circumstances which they could not influence and what is particularly important, they are absent from their will and their ultimate intention to be outside the Republic of Croatia. And if they are not included in the list, then there is something that is contrary to her intention and the law is based precisely on establishing people according to where they will be listed. That is why we cannot accept this explanation, we insist on our amendment and ask you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56658	Let's vote on this amendment that the government doesn't accept, please let's get involved and vote. Score. This amendment was not accepted because it voted 21 for, 9 abstentions, 76 against. I am voting on the final draft law on censuses, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2011. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This Final Bill on Census Law was adopted by the majority of 113 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56659	Two notices. The Vice-President of the Committee on Information, Information and Media announces that the session scheduled for 13 July at 13:30 is cancelled. And the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture reports that a session of the Committee is held today at 13:30 in the Chamber of Stjepan Radic. We move to the next point - The final proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation – third reading, P.Z. No. 423 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Justice, the SDP Representatives' Club, the Legislative Committee and the Spatial Regulation Committee. Proposer representative, State Secretary at the Justice Ministry Tatjana Vučetic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In front of you, the draft proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land is unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. One of the most significant outstanding issues, and unresolved issues in the process of converting and privatising social property, are the regulation of ownership relations on building land, which are not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation in the value of social capital. According to the Ministry of Justice, it is estimated that the total area of land that has not been introduced into the social capital of those legal entities is about 100 million square meters, and only on camps of around 20 million. Such a legal situation has created a legal gap, with regard to the ownership of the legal status of real estate, resulting in enormous damage to the Republic of Croatia. The unsettled legal situation is particularly reflected in the so-called so-called ‘legislative’. tourism land, owned by economic operators in the field of tourism. Such a situation makes it impossible for tourist entities to invest in real estate, as well as for the conclusion of legal transactions, for example. the lease or the like, related to the use of that land. On such land used by companies it is not possible to carry out any construction, since it is not possible to obtain evidence of land ownership and no building permit can be obtained. All this is due to the inability to improve the tourist product. This law therefore seeks to regulate the issue of tourism and other construction land which is not assessed in the value of the social capital of a social enterprise in the process of conversion and privatisation, the titleholder of ownership on tourist land, especially on tourist land in campsites and particularly on land on which hotels and tourist settlements are built, the co-owner of co-owners, depending on the extent of the estimated value of social capital in the process of conversion and privatisation, the right of the concession of a commercial society on land, in camps and on maritime goods, legal entities that have the obligation to pay concession fees, the natural return of the confiscated land to former owners who made a timely request to return that land in accordance with the provisions of the Law on compensation for property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule and the conditions of return. The removal of issues, i.e. the establishment of titleholders of ownership on tourist and construction land subject to the regulation of this law, opens up the possibility of investment activity on that land, enables the conclusion of valid legal transactions, the legal use of these properties and the establishment of legal certainty in the use of these properties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56661	Thank you. The committees. Legislative Committee, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 98th session held on 12 July 2010, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the final proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, third reading. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and submits the following amendment to the text of the final proposal. In the light of Article 24, Article 24(1) of the wording is completely deleted, with a reason, it is estimated that the same legal position of land, i.e. buildings which are not assessed in the conversion process, i.e. privatisation, should have land, i.e. whether the whole or part is concerned. Third, in addition to the amendment set out in the debate, it is specifically pointed out in Article 36, and with a proposal to review the possibility of leaving out this provision, since, in addition to the questionable priority, it opens up the possibility for a party to essentially lose the right to continue to participate in the procedure, while proposing to examine each other the solutions referred to in Articles 5 and 32, first and foremost, taking into account the situation of previous owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56663	Thank you. The Justice Committee, chairman of the committee of Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56664	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Justice Committee considered this proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land as a property of the parent body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative highlighted the whole of the matter, which is regulated by this law, the legal basis and the reasons for its adoption. In the debate, members of the board unanimously supported the final draft law regulating property-legal relations to determine the titleholders of ownership over tourist land. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation with the following amendments: an amendment to Article 21 to actually introduce in Article 21 a general prohibition of availability and estrangement in a uniquely no-technical manner, but, exceptionally, if it is transferred to the Republic of Croatia without compensation for being exempt from the prohibition and if it is sold to a commercial company for the purpose of determining land for regular use for the same reasons, it is proposed to delete Article 22. In the amendment to Article 24, in order to remove fully in Article 24, so as not to lead to confusion that this was the case in the debate on possible new nationalisation in such a way as not to fully assess real estate that they would then become owned by the Republic of Croatia. In fact, even when the expression is completely deleted then it will be clear that it is real estate that is not estimated at all in any part. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And the amendment to Article 36 with a proposal to delete Article 36 for reasons that do not comply with other legal rules, i.e. competition of rights, is resolved by the competent authorities that resolve disputes, and competition of the rights under this law is, in fact, held ineligible by that provision because it cannot be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56665	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The Tourism Committee? Vice-President of the board, Mr. Attorney Gary Cappelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56666	Thank you, Vice President. The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament at the 33rd session held on 12 July 2010 considered therefore the Final Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, so in the third reading. The tourism committee therefore discussed the final draft law in question and on the basis of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, therefore as an interested working body. In his opening statement, the proposing representative stressed that the third reading of the law in question was therefore done multidisciplinaryly in cooperation with representatives of the tourism ministry, spatial planning and construction, as well as various resolution associations in the field of tourism. It was pointed out that the final proposal, which differs from the proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, was not evaluated in the process of conversion and privatisation in which the Croatian Parliament discussed, i.e. in the first and second readings. On 31 July 2009 and 19 February 2010, the partially accepted amendments to the IDS Amendment Club and proposals from the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, as well as proposals made during the debate at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. One of the changes in the final draft laws included in the initiative of hotelers' and camp associations is the time limit on which the concession is given, which is thus changed from 35 to 50 years. In the debate following the opening statement by the proposings' representatives, the majority of the committee members supported the adoption of the law, stressing that the law in question is a key document in resolving the current restrictions on the development of Croatian tourism. However, in the opinion of the section of the Committee, the law could adopt a non-equal approach to different situations which could result in even greater irregularities. It also expressed dissatisfaction with the way the ownership issue has been resolved. Most board members believe that the regulation of legal and economic relations related to tourism land is necessary and of strategic importance for the development of Croatian tourism. The intensity of the law in question is to provide a legal framework for the growth of the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and to contribute to the long-term and sustainable development of the local community primarily through investment and employment. The aim of the law is to enable market repositioning and restructuring of Croatian tourism as well as its orientation towards business throughout the year. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Tourism decided, with 5 votes for and 2 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to pass the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56667	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56668	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. At its 34th session, held on 13 July 2010, the Final Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government on 8 July. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the Proposer's representative pointed out that the basic intensities of this law are to regulate property and legal relations and the way in which tourist and other construction land is used which has not been evaluated and entered into the core capital of companies in the process of conversion and privatisation. The establishment of titleholders of ownership on that tourist and construction land will remove the legal vacuum regarding the ownership of the legal status of those properties, establish the possibility of investment activity and the conclusion of valid legal transactions and the legal use of these properties. It is important to note that the provision of this Act is a tourist plot on which the documents of spatial arrangement set up a tourist destination and land on which the buildings of catering purposes, campsites, hotels and tourist purposes are built, well of interest for the Republic of Croatia. In short, they are presented between the solutions proposed by this Final Proposal in relation to the solutions set out in the final proposal for a law discussed in the second reading. As regards the observations of the Committee on Spatial Regulation on which the discussion was held in the second reading, it was pointed out that this remark was not accepted and that this Final Proposal for a Law defines the concept of land used for regular use with the observation that this issue was governed by a special regulation of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. In the discussion on the Committee, it was proposed that the proposal to consider, in the light of the complexity of the problem, and the uncertainty of provisions governing property legal relations in the final proposal of the law, the proposal to add words other than those referred to in Article 6(1) and Article 24(1), beyond the words "ownership of the Republic of Croatia" in addition to the cases referred to in Article 32. With regard to Article 9, which regulates the right to apply for concessions on maritime goods, in accordance with the provisions governing maritime good and seaports, it has been observed that that article covers this possibility only for camps or part of the camp located on the maritime good. Keeping in mind the solutions covered by the Law on the Sea Good, and the seaports which are in the works, it is pointed out that the provisions of this Law require this possibility to also provide for hotels located on the maritime good or this issue exclusively to be resolved by the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Tourism and Other Construction Land,... in the process of conversion and privatisation, together with the next amendment, and this amendment to Article 31, which replaces the term "set-up" for the words "use". The above amendment clearly defines that the existing facilities and facilities of municipal and other infrastructures on tourist land referred to in Article 20 of this Act are existing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56669	Thank you. The Environmental Protection Committee? The chairman of the Committee of Ms. Representatives, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56670	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. At its 38th session held on 12 July 2010, the Croatian Environmental Protection Committee discussed the final proposal for a law on tourism and other building land not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 8 July 2010. The procedure for the adoption of this Act takes place regularly in the third reading under Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and the Environment Protection Committee discussed this Act as an interested working body. In the opening statement, Minister of Justice Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic, as a representative, gave a brief overview of the situation in that part of the legislation and cited the problems of the absence of large areas of tourist land being introduced into the core capital of companies during and after conversion and privatisation. Today, this land is somehow still social property, regulating concessions and compensation issues for the use of tourism land so far by companies opens up the possibility of new investments. He pointed out that tourism land is good for the Republic of Croatia as a potential for development of tourism activity, and that companies will be able to agree concession conditions with local self-government units, and that the length of the concession period has increased from 35 to 50 years. He noted that the Law is, to the greatest extent, in the three readings process in line with the requirements of all interested parties and that it is a quality starting point for resolving unresolved issues. The final proposal of the Law is unambiguously sophisticated. The debate raised a question of the construction of beaches and public spaces, as well as the restriction of citizens and tourists in its use, and showed the need to prevent devastation by building new facilities in functional units between facilities and maritime goods, by companies that will exercise the right to concession on the land in question. In his reply, Justice Minister Mr. Bosnjakovic stated that the beaches are in the area of maritime goods, and this issue was governed by the Law on Maritime Goods and the Law on concessions. The formed land particles on which tourist facilities are located shall be determined by the owner of the property and shall allow the sale of that land to a commercial company or only on the surface necessary for the regular use of that building. On the other parts of the land concerned that will be under concession, nothing will be built without the consent of the holder of ownership. After the debate was held, the Committee on Environmental Protection decided, with 5 votes in favour and 2 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56671	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Now it's your turn. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. The Act on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, completes privatisation processes in tourism, regulates behaviour in the territory of Croatia, defines ownership of the territory and circles business in the hotel industry. This law has been passed for years, and the state has been very careful in its adoption as it is sensitive subjects. This Law should address the problem of about 100 million square meters of land which was not introduced into the basic capital of hotel companies during privatisation, which is necessary and strategical important for the development of Croatian tourism and formal and content. The law on tourism and other construction land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, allows the state to issue and charge concessions for its land in hotel complexes and camps until now, which it has not earned anything. The result of the conversion and privatisation process left unresolved issues of ownership legal relations on building land which is not assessed in the value of the social capital of legal entities. This situation is particularly evident when it comes to tourist land where campsites and hotels are located. As a result of outstanding ownership of legal relations, all investments in these areas have been disabled as well as the conclusion of contracts and other forms of legal transactions in relation to the use of that land by other interested legal persons. The value of this Law is reflected in the determination to find the right owners of ownership and also to previous owners who made a timely request for the return of the land that was taken from them during the Yugoslav communist rule is also returned to the existing legal solutions which we particularly welcome in the HSS club. That's how the '90s Gordian knot doesn't cut in this case, but hopefully it's slowly untangled. No less important, a certain degree of legal certainty is being established for future investment in the development of tourism. This law allows the state to issue and charge concessions on its land in hotel complexes and camps from which it has not earned anything. It is estimated that 22 million square meters of unrated land are in camps and that the total area of land that is not introduced into the capital of tourist companies is about 100 million square meters. Hypothetically, if the state started issuing and charging concessions this year only on land in camps at the price of 7 kuna per square would receive 154 million kuna. A total of 100 million squares at the same price would make 700 million kuna, so we can ask ourselves how much money we've lost over the last 10 years how hard it's been trying to pass the Tourism Land Act. Because of the undefined ownership status of the land, it was not only a suspended state, local self-government but also hotelers and camp owners because they were prevented from investing and categorising their facilities. Here there is also an expression of solving another problem, nothing less important, and this is the financing of units of local self-government from potential concessions and the wise use of tourist land that will soon be available. We consider it particularly important to highlight the provisions of Article 8 which prohibit the transfer of concessions to a third party, particularly in view of the extended duration of possible concessions from 35 to 50 years. We consider this positive because the concessionary is encouraged to plan long-term development of its activity, with the security of the return of funds invested and the achievement of profits over a long period of time. Continued in all terms, I would like to emphasise the importance of decisions that the bodies of the local self-government units will make and thus contribute to the development of space and tourist capacities in agreement with the local population they represent or disagree with, which would not be wise to make it difficult to develop. From the aspect of environmental protection or protection of the premises of the local and regional self-government by obtaining this space, they will become responsible for the protection of this space and its development as areas of significant interest for the Republic of Croatia. In the adoption of spatial plans of lower levels, a space for development is opened where local administration should be careful not to focus on increasing the number of concrete squares because concrete should not be an integral part of the tourist offer. Namely, any rebuilding as a result of the re-retraction and absence of careful spatial planning can be decapitated and the revenue from tourism that today accounts for 18% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia can be reduced. We must not forget that the Adriatic is also a desirable destination because of the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean, but also because of its natural beauty and because Croatia is indeed the Mediterranean as it once was, unlike other countries that have turned their coast into concrete and thus destroyed it irretrievably. Therefore, it is clear that the regulation of legal and economic relations related to tourism land is necessary, necessary and strategical important for the development of Croatian tourism in both formal and substantive terms. This law should provide for a framework that will allow the competitiveness of tourism to grow and contribute to the long-term and sustainable development of the local community primarily through investment and employment. We in HSS certainly advocate that the tourist land that today is dead capital be put into operation and that concession contracts be precisely drawn up in terms of the protection of the interests of the state, local self-government, hotel owner or camp owner, and above all in terms of the protection of public goods. And for the sake of all of this, we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56673	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56674	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. Here's your turn, and the IDS club will vote for this bill. This is a small day for IDS, but big day for the Croatian Parliament. Is that in 2010, it's lost when it comes to billing, unfortunately in 2011, probably in 2012, but it's better ever than never, and it's too bad that we missed these 15 years. I also claim that no law in the 20-year history of this young Croatian democracy has been given birth longer than this Law on Tourist Land. Here, you can charge the state in one day without any problem for an additional $13.5 billion through bonds, but you can't charge 1 kuna of your political counterparts after 20 years. So, like I said, the law or after the law is passed, it still doesn't mean that someone's gonna start paying the state anything. And that I am right most eloquently witnessing Article 11 which I literally quote: "The request for a concession is submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Tourism within a year of the entry into force of this Act". When the law comes into force, we will see it but I have the impression that it is waiting for the tourism 2011 to pass so that the demands can only be submitted, and while these rights are resolved, it will certainly be a tourist year 2012. So what I am appealing to, Madam Secretary of State, gentlemen of Parliament, is to reduce that deadline for applying for concessions to no later than 31.12.2010, and all these decisions need to be made by 1.6.2011, so that no one will pay for the land either in 2011 or 2012. Why was it so that this law was born almost 10 or 15 years ago, why the law did not want HDZs either, and I dare say it was not wanted by the 3rd January administration. But before that, let me just tell you where tourism is about today. The net revenues of tourism in 2009 amounted to a billion euros less than in 2008, from 6.5 billion euros to 5.5 billion, and in 2010, it will certainly be less than 500m euros compared to 2010. Or what it looks like for the first six months of this year? The Germans came to Croatia 19% less, the Czech Republic 14 and Hungary also 14% less for the first six months, the Austrians, the Dutch, too, about 7% less. I am convinced that these tourist companies have managed not to impose their own interest, I will not speak corrupt, that they have corrupt someone, but surely they have managed to impose this attitude on them in this way. On the one hand, the government can see well how, through its fingers, tens of millions of euros a year only when it comes to the matter. In 15 years, we certainly lost at least 500 million euros. 500m euros is your brother's 50km highway or 20 hotels with 5 stars or 50 super modern schools, but Veli Vrh in Pula is now finishing up with the hall. It is 10 for us to dream of general hospitals in Pula or the actual rehabilitation of two Croatian shipyards. And now, instead of the governments taking that money, I mean the January 3rd government. She left the money to bankers or foreign-owned banks who control large tycoons, pifs, foreign companies or so on. etc. If we had only 20, 30 million or 40m euros from that land today, we could follow all these small companies like TSU, etc. which have problems in business, and now I read that even salaries at the Croatian Privatisation Fund are not paid regularly and that their budget for helping such companies is as dry as powder. But I believe that what Minister Popio has promised will be fulfilled. A man normally asks himself a question so didn't we owe you enough, what I know, tycoons, these foreign banks, pifs, etc. Did We not indeed subdue the whole land to them? It's clear to me that they logically want more and more from day to day. I understand that, but I just can't figure out that this stuff didn't want to get rid of it until today. I'm comparing it at all times to, say, these little merchants, the craftsmen, the craftsmen, the caterers. In order to get one square metre of some terrace in Poreč or Pula, Split or Dubrovnik, my Buzet, they must give their skin for themselves to pay for these leases. In one Poreč, it seems to me that one square metre of some terrace in Dekuman's 15 euros. It's more than a hundred kunas, and on the other hand our tycoons use hundreds of acres of camps, watch out and pay no one. And now somebody tell me that some in some governments or all governments weren't corrupt. I'm sure the governments have seen that the big ones are using this public good. Governments see how many people get rich. Governments see that those little merchants, the craftsmen, those poor people just yell at each other, they yell at them lively. That these great ones are unfair competition, and through such a form, the government sees that these big ones don't build new hotels. The government sees some in the Parliament have been warning of this for years and clearly nothing is being done. It's been tolerated for 20 years. Let me be more specific than war for 15 years and now tell me that's normal. That someone isn't corrupt, for instance. For me, there is no other explanation for whether or not something is likely to happen to anyone. But also, when we talk about this law, I have to say that I am not costing the tourism sector, so neither great. The tourism sector needs to be fair enough to keep these big systems. They're either privatized or failed. That's why the big ones need to understand. But their exhibits can't teach lessons all the time, and on the other hand, they can't normally get out based on this existing political will. From the 1990s to the present 20 years, I claim that 20 new hotels have not been built throughout the Adriatic. True, '91. There's been a war on us for years. Croatia was a victim of aggression. We lost four, five years. But in 20 years from the 1990s until today, what we've done as a nation. We set up that road infrastructure, ok. What we did in charge of Croatia, we brought in big trade chains, and that's basically it. And 45 years from '45. By the '90s, come on from '50. '90s. Those 40, our fathers laid one foundation for an industrialized state that was more underdeveloped at that time than Croatia. They built factories, they industrialized the country, they built shipyards, hotels. I'm sure they've been in Istria since the '60s. '90s. Raised a hundred. Since '90. To this day, I doubt there are more than five. They laid the foundations for hospitals, 400,000 apartments were built, infrastructure, electrified Croatia or Yugoslavia at the time anyway. Everyone could've gotten to work, and we've been here since the '90s one more time saying we've had the war all sold out and we can't go anywhere anymore. All countries in our environment are raising their gross social product, only Croatia stagnates and falls. The Slovak gross social product is growing by 3%, Polish by 2.7, Serbian by 1%, Hungarian by 0.8, Slovenian by 0.5. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, it will be neutral 0%, falling 1% in Croatia. Now everyone wonders that in 13.5 billion kuna Shuker has additionally owed Croatia bonds within 10 years. I was talking about it that another 7.7 would happen. And what now, but to scream bravo, master! But politics keeps water until the masters leave is a one-time policy that will sooner or later have to sober us up. Otherwise, I tell you that on today, without these 13.5 billion kunas, the value of bonds on the foreign market is 30.3 billion kuna or 4.1 billion euros. When the citizens are too long, they hang themselves, and when the state is in debt some are rich, but the people are bound by a noose around their necks. But let's let it go now. To go back to this law. When I talk about tourist land before Mrs. Petir said there are 22 million square meters or square meters in the camps alone. A total of such land that has not entered the core capital has 100 million metres. One euro, so you can count on how much it can be 0.5 euros per square, in camps it must be at least 11 to 22 million euros per year. I repeat once again, I am against the price of destroying this land's tourism sector. The price for these properties must not be such that the systems are ruined. Why? Time's hard, I was talking about coming numbers, it's gonna get worse. On the other hand, what is the value of these properties, i.e. as much as it can be a lease. If someone else in my court wants to build it, so it needs to be made possible with a single kuna concession for 100 years I say through the Institute of Civil Rights. The State will, on the other hand, be charged with VAT, contribution, jobs, the function of the construction operation, etc., etc. 15 or 20 or 30 days ago, Mr. Danko Končar bought down in Istria Barbariga Dragoner for 51m euros. One square meter of land paid between 15 and 20, no more than 25 euros, in '99. or in 2000, in some other times it was sold for 7 euros. It wasn't supposed to be sold, absolutely, 20 million euros are roads, water, sewerage, what others have invested, and it has to be some starting price right now, it can't be destroyed by someone with a lease, but the lease needs to be paid. There's nothing simple to do, even if these tycoons fund power. Or when some business people don't name them say we now know what it's worth to Barbara Dragoner, okay, which he didn't have to sell, how they didn't say under what conditions they bought one Anita from Vrsar with 3.4 campsites, with hotels, apartments, guvillas and companies, infrastructure, who was the head of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, etc., etc. I'm saying that so that you just stop politicizing, there's no one's right to do that. Everything we can in this country needs to be put into operation. We have to tell the hotel people I don't know for 15 years, the war doesn't count, you used that land, here's another 15 years if you need it for nothing. That's what Damir Cain says. But then give to the same build every two five-star hotels, two hotels that's 50 million euros, 400 million kunas, the state will pay 100 million kuna through VAT, but in two years you'll hire 100, 200 people, through contributions this country will have and that's what the nation will carry, that's what we need, that's what can boost investment. They'll say so we've been rebuilding hotels, but you've usually fired people, and you'll be hiring through new content. Have one word, but also give, earn but build, for the state should surely come to its own. So someone can't use something for nothing, but once again I'll say you will, but then you'll have to hire, build, etc., and stop politicizing, and when I'm talking about this law and here I'll appeal that our craftsmen can get to the business premises where they work, because the workers have come to apartments, tycoons to factories, strangers to hotels, factories, I don't know the banks, defenders, we've just voted the law to the apartments, farmers to the ground, only those craftsmen can't get to anything. Once again, I see that here the bright, principle works and has and should simply be incorporated into that law, and the one who is not ready to pay for everything he uses and a lot of that that someone uses for nothing. It's past that time and they must also understand it and this law is a new beginning, although that law has been late for 20 years, but better ever than never, IDS supports it, has good solutions, but I'm afraid some will not pay for anything, either in 2011 or 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56675	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56676	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. Today we are discussing, in the third reading of one I would say the most debated law in the Croatian Parliament. Whoever remembers we started discussing this topic in 2005, then as a proposal for the Law on Tourism Land, and of course the debate took so many years and it took so long to find a solution because it was a complex problem to solve the situation which was lagging behind in the process of conversion and privatisation. During all these years as counterpart Cain said that the law had been late for 20 years, I would say that this law was not too late, but it was too late to resolve this problem, so when during all those years it failed to resolve other laws in the meantime, the Law on Privatisation, and the Law on Property and other real rights, then it was necessary to access one special law that would resolve this emerging situation. Namely, it is an extremely important, important property, important land, a pearl of land, and it was recognized by the Croatian government and those ancient 90s, when it was not really evaluated, it was not released into the assessment of capital, it was not allowed to convert precisely for reasons that it would not be sold and that it would not go into invaluable. As I said in the meantime, he entered into force of the Law of Property of '97. the year that determines the titleholders of ownership on every property, so that's how this was supposed to be solved, but that's not how it is. It also entered into an amendment to the Privatisation Act which tried to resolve this situation by the general provision of Article 47, which said that unrated items, rights, shares, real estates became property of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, but in practice it did not happen because the courts could not recognise it as an ex-lege acquisition, and then in the situation of today 2010, we have left these properties, i.e. this property with still registered social property, and therefore this situation has to be resolved, and for several reasons. In fact, this is the state of long-term I would say to the three adverse consequences, which is that companies had no legal basis for legal use, either at their disposal, or investment. Another harmful consequence is that the state, as we have heard here and as calculated throughout all those years, has lost its income for 15 years, but here I dare say that it is even better to have lost those revenues than to have been sold in the 1990s by those estimates as they were in the conversion of then social, tourist and catering companies. Meanwhile, there has been another extremely harmful consequence which is the question of whether this law will succeed, I think it will not, and that is why I call once again and appeal to the State's attorney to engage more strongly and to return back to the state what has been kidnapped, and this is why it is illegal in books on the large areas of this land illegally carried out in land books and the registration of the property of companies that the country and that land have never paid to the state of Croatia for which a number of litigation is being conducted and which should be quite engaged to be completed in favour of the Republic of Croatia. In progress, so here we have the third reading, the law in the third reading, we can say that in these first two readings, he really has sanded out his provisions. In relation to the second reading, we welcome most of the amendments except for the few amendments that will need to further improve this text, but other than the number of nomotechnical improvements and the breaking of the legal text in order for it to be unequivocal and clear one of the newspapers, the most important newspapers in relation to the second reading is the maximum duration of the concession up to 50 years which we do not keep bad because on the one hand it is aligned with the General Law on concessions, and on the other hand it has an economic justification and an economic interest for potential investments of considerable proportions to then be one security in the possibility of using this land. Of course, all these conditions and sales and assessment and concessions will be determined by the Government by its regulation. And that is why, just so we don't welcome 2011 with the same problem of unsolved tourist land, I hope that these sublegal acts will be brought in time to welcome the next tourist season with the resolved titles, property rights and powers on this land. So, I think this law has covered and solved all the problems. From, for starters, from the definition of tourist land as land which has not been assessed in the value of social capital in the process of conversion and privatisation, land which is defined by spatial planning documentation for the catering and tourism purposes and which are used for that purpose. We have resolved the issue of other construction land because while this law was being done, there are other cases in the privatisation process where social enterprises have turned, privatised, but not covered by all the properties of the former social enterprise, and this law solves that too. What is important is that tourist land is found to be of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and has been found to enjoy its special protection. It has also established that the Republic of Croatia will have the power to grant concessions. It was also found that according to that provision then the Republic of Croatia has the right to purchase and will also be disbursed by co-owners on the general principle that if the co-owner of the Republic of Croatia and the company of the company that the Community will be co-owned in such a way that the State of Croatia pays the co-owners at market value, and, exceptionally, if the company owns over a ratio, it can then pay off the market value of the Republic of Croatia. It is also laid down, therefore, that the law prevents a company that receives a concession in such a primary order, so that this law exempts the application of the concession law and determines the specific application of this law. But that's why it's been prevented that this kind of concession can be passed on to someone else and the deadline has been left. Namely, such a company cannot continue to hold these properties, not to do anything. So there's a deadline of one year when he has to apply for a concession. If it does not, the land will be given by general rules of concession through a public tender. And we think it's good, in a way to protect the economic interests of existing entities on these properties, but that they also pay a fair fee for it. The fee that would then be divided between the Republic of Croatia into 60%, 20% would be paid to the county budget and 20% to the city budget, or the municipality. And what is important is that this law determines that all these funds are supplied to concession fees, whether they are permitted, exceptionally authorised by this law, that they must be used for the development of tourism. Thus, either for the construction of tourism infrastructure or through the National Tourism Fund. The question of the rest has been resolved. So, the land in the camps, the entire unrated land in the camps becomes owned by the Republic of Croatia, and the unrated land on the tourist land on which hotels and tourist settlements were built, so it develops all the situations where the value of the building was assessed, when the building and part of the land were estimated, when the unrated land was estimated. And I think that these systematic provisions are now all situations worked out. Also, the unrated land on which hotels and tourist settlements are built becomes the property of units of local self-government, which is good for their development of further mostly smaller units that have a lot of such tourist settlements. And of course, since this Law somehow gives it to units in possession, then it is right to prohibit them from selling this land, so they can either exceptionally or simply transfer it to the Republic of Croatia without compensation or can only concession or sell the land needed for the regular use of the building that has been assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation. Almost this identical way and the war was kept at the rest of the building land, with it not to be concessioned but to be sold the part necessary for regular use and the part below the building will become the owner of the entity that in turn had an estimated building. This final text of Article 28 also fully specified the resolution of these property crossings, the establishment of building blocks of deadlines in which certain interested parties can submit requests not to remain disputed and unresolved. And in the end, I would say that this law has affected and resolved the issues of previous owners namely, these are huge complexes of land they once had known private owners, they have over the years this land is nationalized and deposited, today we have a situation that some of these lands have been brought in for purposes, sometimes they have been brought in for purposes but today they are out of office so former owners are looking at empty backs that don't come back to them because it was once spatially planned documentation or municipal decisions assigned to some social enterprises. So, we are dealing with the situation that this Law as a legion of specialis solves the issue of the rights of former owners on tourist land in such a way that property will be returned to nature, land, unless it has been brought to a purpose for which it has been taken away, therefore, not for any other purpose but only for the one for which it was taken away and if it was once in the former state or during the time when it was a social enterprise that was taken away, but today it has no purpose or function for which it was then taken away and I think that we will solve this injustice for a long time in relation to the former owners and, of course, if this is not possible by this proposal, finally that they will continue the procedure in accordance with the Law on compensation for the property seized during... government, for all these reasons it is high time to be passed, which is good and precise Club of the Croatian Democratic community will support the adoption of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56677	Thank you to the SDP representative club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, I'll start with what my colleague finished her speech, mentioning earlier owners. For us, that's the most important question. For what? Because we believe and share the opinion of the vast majority of citizens that Croatia is a deeply unfair country and that our duty here is to all individuals and all together to establish greater justice in Croatia. This is primarily possible by adopting righteous laws so that they can be applied in such a way. The SDP representative club believes this law is necessary for Croatia. But in doing so, we need to be guided by the basic principles of this speech so far, to correct old injustices but very well and carefully to avoid new injustices. Equally so that balance is found, one balance between private and public interest and seemingly these two conflicted interests, if we are guided by these principles can be established. Namely, the very title of the Law is a little questionable to us, why? Not because of the nomotechnic structure of it, but above all it must be clear to the addressees, to the citizens. What's this about? The proposal for a law on tourism and other construction land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation is about land that we want to regulate in this way which is not privatised, which is not paid and which is used. Here today we are discussing, and in two days we will decide, the most valuable resource Croatia has, which is Croatia and the rest, which is why the SDP Club has prepared a whole series of amendments, which, given how we have discussed it so far, we believe will not be questionable. But just about theirs, we're asking for that kind of confirmation just by accepting these amendments, which then depends on us giving our positives, or voting for this bill. In fact, these troubles that we have gone into as individuals and as a state as a whole are the result of, above all, not only of the law, but above all of the unfair, non-transparent Law on Privatisation, on Conversion, and even more of the instructions that came from that body, at that time. Therefore, the consequences are how to implement the Law on Conversion and to develop an elaborate on the basis of which the value of the underlying capital was calculated. There was everything and everything. Some people and companies paid honestly what they used, some did not pay, not only to use but to expand beyond those fences that were once made by social enterprises and certain hotels. Some have usurped private property and it is something that cannot be tolerated, or that needs to be found a fair way out of all of it. In fact, here we heard today from Mrs. Secretary of State, the data available to the Ministry of Justice 100 million meters, it's 100 million square meters. If only a few kunas, if the state had the courage, the strength, and the will to establish justice, then only using such a minimum price would make us richer by several billion kunas. If I didn't say there wouldn't be any mention of the elimination of various benefits, there wouldn't be any mention of the introduction of harrassors, etc. We brought, don't forget, the Constitution unanimously, about the norm we agreed on what was the SDP's proposal to sanction illegalities, crime in conversion and privatisation. By handling this constitutional principle now and through this law, we must be careful to pay for what is without any legal basis. It's a good thing he's doing this law, too. In fact, it is only in Article 32 that previous owners are mentioned. The whole law speaks of how this land, tourist land and other building land will be deployed, or which entities, whether natural or legal, will acquire ownership of legal persons at the beginning. Commercial companies are competing, therefore hotels, competing with state and local self-government units. This divides the land until Article 32, and then the former owners are mentioned and the question arises as to what will remain at the end of the earlier owners. So that there would be no dispute because we saw today's debates saying that it would not be questionable at all, then the SDP club made amendments to all those provisions that talk about when this land would belong to the state, when the units of local self-government would belong. That's what we've been talking about on boards, and I think about it, if there are, and there's no reason to doubt that there are no hidden intentions, that it's explicit in certain provisions. Therefore, Article 2(3) of the Barata also refers to the concepts and after privatisation of certain powers which are entitled to social property, use, management, availability. So these are the constituent elements of ownership, and here we still have no ownership. That's why this law is passed. So, to be quite transparent that it is property, now that they are holding it, some are holding it really what they became owners, some are holding it because they entered such an area illegally, some are in good faith because they were not able to because of the wrong and different interpretations of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and legalize what they wanted to pay for and what once made it an integral whole and what was entered into that coverage of earlier social property. When the article 6 refers to tourist land in campsites, then it is particularly apostrophe that it becomes property, so it becomes and remains the property of the Republic of Croatia. We do not, except in cases, wish to stress this, which are provided for in Article 32, that is, in paragraph 1, which must be returned to earlier owners. Let's just remember a law that was passed back in the '90s, the end of the '90s, later changed, passed, and it's about the return of property, the compensation of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. In particular, the importance and ideological importance of this law was apostrophe in order to express the horror of the system, so then the proponents and legislators considered it, and all those injustices that had been done to the citizens, where the seized land was nationalized. That's why we're holding at the SDP club, and we're particularly sensitive to not getting a new nationalisation. If we deny and reject these amendments, that would mean practically, it would be a matter of vagueness and could lead to different interpretations in practice. We see, and according to the law now, it's not yet returned to them, and it is now believed that this law will have primate over the earlier law. That is why we ask that this law does not diminish such rights but that it increases them, but the minimum is not to reduce the rights that are regulated in that law that has such a pompous name. So, the SDP club here has submitted its amendments just so no new nationalisation would occur and that those applying this law would be told unequivocally through many articles. Similarly, in Article 20, where land belonging to units of local self-government is also referred to, we are also looking at exactly that if they are not subject to the return of former owners. Also in Article 24 which speaks of building land that remains owned by the Republic of Croatia. In particular, we want to apostrophe except in cases where these assets are to be returned by law by virtue of Article 32 of the former owners. So, if that's what we agreed on, then I can already say that the SDP club will vote for this law. Otherwise, they won't and will consider it a new nationalisation and will consider it a former owner. I'm here, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, particularly apostrophe, and I believe that the motionary will adopt it. When we speak, therefore, Article 4 is studied, it is determined that tourist land is well of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and that it enjoys its special protection. This means that sales could occur in quite certain cases and that special protection follows both after privatisation and after the designation of the holder, that there is always one purpose left. Because that already sets out Article 4 which we support. When it comes to the decomposition of the co-ownership community between the Republic of Croatia and the other co-owner, it is said that this other co-owner, if he has more value than the Republic of Croatia, will be able to buy from the Republic of Croatia at a market price. We are also looking here at the SDP club if the provisions of Article 4 are consistently applied so that simply other institutions do not sell, but, for example, concessions can satisfy the needs of therefore one smooth development and the activities of our hotelers, but also literally apply the provision of Article 34. When we speak in Articles 16 and 17 when the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when the state has the right to unilaterally terminate the contract, then we point out that such an institute does not exist. So the government not only can but it must cancel the contracts, those contracts where the beneficiaries of the concession do not pay the concession and there cannot be any double interpretation. This imperative for the protection of the fiscus and for the protection of Croatia's interests and for the sake of justice to allow for then orderly competitors who would like to get a concession such a single possibility. In the provision of Article 31 when it comes to services, we must in particular note that maintaining these facilities and devices without obligation to pay compensation so far is acceptable because so far it has been. But the establishment of new services beyond the Property and Real Rights Act is considered absolutely unacceptable because this would mean neighbouring land, anyone's land, and very valuable because all the neighboring land is also valuable, equal if not greater value. Such properties would be ruined and no compensation would be paid. Therefore, setting up a new infrastructure or establishing a service has no reason to go under this law, but according to the general rules of the Property Act and the real rights that speak of when a new service will be established. Of course it always goes with a new fee. I'm saying that's what the elements of justice are, because in such a way, it would be unscrupulous to destroy other people's property, and it would have no right to any compensation. And another thing that we first saw in the SDP club was article 36, which is absolutely unacceptable. Therefore, in front of the institutions either administrative or judicial, where multiple owners compete with their legitimate or unwarranted demands or some of the rights for which someone holds that someone has an unacceptable proposal from the Government is that in these cases the company has an advantage. We're wondering on what basis this would have preceded. It would violate the entire justice system. So we think article 36 should be deleted. We don't have room. All issues in question and who has the right or who has a stronger right to own shall be established in the ordinary procedure of the Property Act and other real rights. Here I am finishing the presentation on behalf of the SDP club, and once again I draw attention to the rulings in accepting our amendments that improve the text and that satisfy all these interests that were involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56679	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mrs. Representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm gonna do. I correct Agent Anticevic's incorrect claim that Croatia is a deeply unfair country. It's simply offensive, false and incorrect. And deeply, deeply offensive to our country of Croatia and to all the honest Croatian people who live in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56681	And Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56682	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, counterpart Anticevic Marinovic said that this type of principled legal text would put former owners in a worse situation than under the Law on Compensation of property seized during the communist rule and that a new nationalisation would take place. This is absolutely incorrect for the reason that the Compensation Act determines that it returns to the principle of money and securities. Particularly in nature, this law as a lex specialis foresees a return primarily in nature and it is clear that they also compete with the rights of former owners on that land that will be state, the unit of local self-government because they and the bonds of return under the basic Law on compensation and no new nationalisation would happen by any chance by such a legal text.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56683	HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56684	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In your presentation on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retirement at the beginning of that exhibition, allow me to say something very personal. With great attention, I listened to the debate on behalf of Mr. Caine's IDS club, which was made in a frantic mood, in a very furiose tone in which Mr. Cain proved himself in the style of Cain's Iberales. I was just wondering if that's possible, is it possible that someone is neglecting the fact that at the time when the decision was made in Istria on the sale of Barbariga and Dragonella that the gentleman was at the price of 7 euros, that Mr Cain chaired the county assembly. We can all wash our hands, but those are facts. And I support his proposal to make an investigation where who was when the land was sold, when the companies were privatized, or sold, when the banks were taking over tourist companies and let's see where the politicians and local and state-owned were in which position. I can ask for it because we as a Croatian party of pensioners were not in these stories. And then today we prove that it was possible by law, but that it was very, very immoral what was done. And I'd like to conclude that by referring to my colleague Caine's debate. Everyone has the right to cultivate their own personal style and perform in their own way, but we must not deceive the public. I'm entering the essence of this law. Some financial experts, therefore, prove that the lack of this law has lost money in the last 20 years in the value of a state budget. I wouldn't be so intensely interpreting the lack of this law, and the lack of this regulation, I'm still going to take something as easy circumstances. But what is evidence, and this key evidence, the lack of this law is proof that all Croatian governments, and the relationship is 4 versus one, in a political relationship with these Croatian governments, have shown, because... The law has a strong talent in the ignorance of the redistribution of taxpayers' money and a marked talent in the borrowing of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] And they have also proven their complete inability to catch something that is not tax-based money, and contributes to income, or something that is related to property. And that of that property that was immobilized created revenue from the state budget. We've certainly lost dozens of hospitals, hundreds of schools, because we don't have this law. But you wouldn't be so dramatic that it's enormously high, because tourism has something to confess. It should be recognised that it is a branch that has not recognised war damage, and has suffered war damage, so the economic branch that suffered war damage, because of the war, there were no tourists, who had exhausted all its resources by operating because it had never been compensated for war damage, and because of the debts incurred by the banks, it had moved into the ownership of banks that had sold out that branch. So this should always be taken into account, and if we are to see realistically, perhaps the first 10 years of non-compliance with this law can in some way be interpreted as a kind of subsidy or aid in tourism that it does not additionally burden it. For the other 10 years since 2000, there has been no further justification and there are so many possible schools, hospitals, less educated people, that money was used through the budget of some important content that is related to the development of Croatia. We would probably not as a society because of the lack of this money would be much richer or much poorer, but we would have certain content that we could finance today. As far as the law itself is concerned, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party, I express one need. In this law, perhaps more than any law, I would like to have here no government regulation, but a draft government regulation. The government's draft regulation that I know about how much this concession fee will be for land in the camp, for land under the hotel, for the rest of the building land so that it can decide with full responsibility in terms of whether it will additionally burden the business of tourist companies or they will be able to bear it, because it is our responsibility as a representative in the Croatian Parliament that what we do, we do with a measure, that we do not reward anyone, but also that we do not make business conditions impossible for anyone. It's our responsibility. And that's why I'd like to ask you to start growing some new practice in the government. When it comes to such important, important projects, when it comes to some new beginnings, so give us a draft of one such regulation, so we won't be so smarter in six months that everyone in the government will have a new light once this law is passed and that this regulation will fix everything that we can't figure out here. We therefore very much miss it so that we can understand the weight of this law compared to let's say the business of the tourism industry. What we think and where we're going to do, what we're dealing with is the relationship between Article 8 and Article 11. Namely. Article 12, excuse me. For the purposes of Article 8(1), a commercial company co-owner of real estate within the meaning of Article 6(2) of this Act may apply for concession in the co-ownership part of the Republic of Croatia for the use of the camp for a maximum period of up to 50 years. On the other hand, after the termination of the concession referred to in Article 8(1) of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall publish a notice of the intention to grant a concession. Look, 50 years is a very long time, it is a longer period than a generation's working life, and I agree that it is possible that the legislator is thinking that the conditions of management will change, that the legal entities that are in this business will change, etc., but we still couldn't reward the concerns of those who, on the basis of the requirements, will now get that land in concession, build, manage and fulfil all their obligations, so that we can extend that deadline to them, without a new competition. Of course, there is now the attitude of the state to those who do good and to those who do bad things. So here we have one dilemma, one grudge, because if we're not going to give an amendment here, but if the government thinks there should be another deadline that can be extended, then I'm asking you to intervene with the amendment to the government. What else we would like to problem and what I want on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired People is to point out the inability of Article 15. Therefore, Article 15(2) states that the funds to be obtained on the basis of concessions, concessions related to tourist land in campsites, will be used exclusively for the purpose of the development of tourism infrastructure, and the preservation of the tourist resource base. Therefore, the most logical thing would be that this fund is called the Tourism Development Fund, because the Tourism Fund is a very broad name and in some way an empty name, and we have already foreseen in paragraph 2 that the funds will be used exclusively for development, so in this sense there will be our amendment that you will receive. What is a dispute in all the debates is a resistance to the distribution of these funds. Our proposal will be to allocate the funds 40:40:20, so 40 belongs to the state, 40 to the one with the highest burden on building infrastructure around the camp, which is the municipality or city and 20 counties. And that's our proposal. It would be good for you to accept it because it has its specific weight, it has a foundation. It is that the modernisation of offers in camps will require certain investments, certain changes in plans to invest municipalities and cities. Access roads should be paved, walking sites need to be arranged, public lighting needs to be increased, water connections, electricity, sewers, telephones and everything that makes the infrastructure. We therefore believe that this requirement is justified and that this would be a good measure for the distribution of these funds to such an extent that, in paragraph 2, the state does not provide for this money in terms of revenue of the budget but is considering this money exclusively in development, the money that is solely in the development of the tourist offer in Croatia. So I'd like you to consider it that way. No matter how much we respect all the objections and amendments submitted by the Club of Representatives of the SDP which we ask for, we in principle support this law at the club HNS-HSU because it is certainly one thing: to have such a law rather than any law, as we have not had in the last 20 years, and we know reliably that all laws can be changed, can be upgraded, can be improved. Thus, it is a fundamental fact in which we generally support it. Although we'll leave our club members at will, but I think most of it will be the support of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56685	Thank you. At 12.42, it was time for the hearing to be reported for 10 minutes. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56686	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. As already stated in the debate, the fundamental value of this law consists of the fact that it will solve a major problem in the property-legal sense of unsolved value building land located directly along the coast, which is estimated to have a total area of about 100 million square meters, and whose failure to resolve property-legal relations in a significant way has hampered the further development of Croatian tourism because, due to the failure to resolve property-legal relations in this area, there was no possibility of a series of investments in terms of building existing hotel complexes, either in terms of the construction of new... investment in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is, therefore, true, and it has been several times today that it has been high time for all interested persons interested in solving this problem to adopt the Law on Tourism Land. For example, if this law had been in force before, there would have been no problem of functioning in local self-government, for example in the area of the Makarska Riviera, I do not know how much Madam State Secretary you are familiar with it, and in part with certain units of local self-government not Croatian islands. In which former owners of the nationalised land sued and spent their time removing funds from individual units of local self-government. Today, the problem has been expressed terribly in Brela municipality where former management owners are threatening to block, if the court adopts, and since the court adopted similar situations for other local self-government units, threatens to block the giro accounts because the amounts the owners seek exceed the budget of the units of local self-government. Therefore, here is that this law before was likely to be these problems that are now being put before local self-government units, I say in the Makarska coast, and I know that this was also an example in the town of Starigrad on the island of Hvar. So wherever the former owners are up, and the court has granted them that right, units of local self-government, here and under this law are not the future holder of ownership, they are, from their budget, being taken from the budget, their budgets are reduced in the part where the citizens whose land has been taken away from the budget of the local self-government units. Such a bill makes it seem to me that all those participants who are participating in the project will be satisfied. First of all, companies are touristic because after this law, they will be allowed to apply for a concession, and then after the concession is applied within the appropriate period and approved, they will be able to move forward in a further investment cycle, upgrade, edit, raise the quality of these spaces and will significantly increase the general level of service provision in Croatian tourism. On the other hand, it also satisfies previous owners because it will, through the implementation of the law itself, and as provided for in those provisions, be granted either payment or return of that land in kind. So, to return to which no purpose has been implemented which is foreseen in terms of spatial plans, and it is certainly clear that, through the grant of concessions, the state will also have a new source of income which, I support, will necessarily be returned to the construction of a new tourism infrastructure through the Tourism Fund, and whether through a commitment to the units of local self-government, that those 40% of the funds collected from the concession fee return to investments in a tourism infrastructure that has long been abandoned due to the failure to solve this problem. It's very important, and I think it's a good thing, that an institute has been introduced to which this land is a property of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia. It enables first purchase rights on the one hand, but on the other hand allows future concessionaries to make it possible, in the process of obtaining documentation of any construction, any location permits, or anything that will be leaned on later when the problem is resolved, to result in more rapid, quality building permits and to come closer to the realization of the projects themselves which they are interested in. I also said this through the discussion in the second reading, and now I will repeat, that I think it takes the same formulation that is made possible by this law to the owners of the camps, which is that if the camps are partly extended to the maritime well-being, or if the areas of these camps and areas where the camps rest directly with the maritime well-being to allow them to benefit from the concession for the use of maritime goods, which are usually a beach or some other purpose that is on the maritime good, that they can be given direct concessions on the maritime good. I welcome this and think that this is good, even more so in the Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports which is now in preparation will be made possible by camp owners, as well as by other interested owners of catering and tourist facilities that directly border the maritime good, so in this Law such provision will also be made possible by such an institute to enable hotel owners, facilities, catering facilities, I think that such examples along the coast are a large number and it would not be good for hotel owners to provide services in the terraces bordering maritime goods, and then that part of the maritime good goes to public competition and that there is a beach, or facilities that are used on those beaches by someone else, because in such a way there will certainly be no order on the maritime good or in the actual use of either of the property that is on a sea-good or that basic facility located outside of the sea-good area. As I said earlier, I support the establishment of the Tourism Fund because given the extremely large area of this building land, I also estimate that the compensation for its use will be large and good that the funds that are recovered from the concession fee will be returned to tourism in the construction of tourist infrastructure and thus certainly contribute to the development of Croatian tourism. During the discussion on the Committee itself, it was that more detailed regulation of the land representing the regular use of the building. In the Law itself, the Proposer tied himself to a special regulation and did not accept in a certain way the proposal put forward in the Committee's work to include, instead of the area for regular use of the building, a formula that would speak of functional use of the building, it might be more appropriate than what is considered to be the regular use of the building, but here, by special law, it is precisely such a formulation that it has fully accepted and thus it is in law and defined. Here, in the end, it seems to me that this law has just found this balance between the interest of the state as the owner of the land, the former owners whose land was to the greatest extent taken from them and never been justly compensated. And what is least important is that here is satisfied with the interest of investors or the interest of private companies who have these facilities for which conversion and privatisation has been carried out during the 1990s. I estimate that the adoption of this Act will certainly help further develop Croatian tourism and, least importantly, solve this one trauma which many of the owners of the land that this land was taken away from 30, 40 years ago, that it will help them in their demands to resolve the problem as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56687	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56688	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing how to correct one of the mistakes and failures related to the Law on the Conversion of social enterprises. And that is probably why each of us is trying to find the good side, the failures in this law and to estimate that there are more quality solutions, so that is why, with certain amendments by the promoters, we are likely to resort to this solution and therefore end at least the land story. I would say that the tourism economy is the one that in the Law on Conversion had the most damage and basically the Law on Conversion when we talk about the tourism economy couldn't get any positive results. The problem was certainly an elaborate on conversion, a matter of land and a desire not to solve it then but to leave it for later. That later, 17, 18 years after the Law was passed, which only really shows that no one was involved in this difficult problem and that we bear the responsibility that we in some way did not solve this problem. So here is the reason why taxpayers lost their income, and I would say the tourist economy has remained undefined ownership, with problems finding a strategic investor partner or one who would have entered the purchase of shares, and that is probably the reason that most of the hotel with the Adriatic has remained on 2, 3 stars and very few hotels have been renovated and in some way represent the pride of Croatian tourism. Another problem was in the Law on Conversion, the problem was a mandatory concentration. So we inherited socialist mastodons, and as much as the rest of the economy had the opportunity to break those mastodons into smaller companies and then privatize far easier and make conversion far easier with smaller entities, at the hotel it wasn't possible. That's why we have companies with 10, 15 hotels, restaurants, boards, and I would say "depandance" and in some way simply conversion that's not possible. However, it is evident that individual conversion would have far greater effect, likely the participation of individual workers in some of the entities, as well as investors who would certainly find interest in investing in one hotel in 2, but not in 15. An example of this is Liburnia in Kvarner, which is today without owners with court disputes, I would say games of certain illegal, non-transparent transactions in the privatisation of the fund sometime by 2000. There is no better situation in the Adriatic Crikvenica which now enters the bankruptcy phase, because simply non-investment is the reason that somewhere in the summer the average price is moving up to 40 euros for bed, so then you can think, there are no investments, there are no positive results, the problem is how to act outside the season and in this way we come to total uncertainty. I will not mention the Imperial Rab yet, but it is evident that the Kvarner region with three important entities who have not found the possibility that, through the then Act on Conversion and privatisation, they will neither convert nor privatise, and then it is the collapse, non-investment and lagging behind the entire region without saying what the tourism economy means for Croatia and for all of us. And of course the third problem in that conversion and privatisation was this philosophy of dynamic, evaluation, static assessment, so we also went to the static evaluation of buildings and buildings in tourism. And we didn't want to valorize that it was wartime, that it was simply a complete absence of any activity due to wartime, that it was a good part for '95. For years, the operation of these hotels was turned to the care of exiles and refugees and that in this way the value of all these facilities was far, far less than it was bookkeeping or something else, not to mention the results of the business that had significantly destroyed the total capital of the economy. And that's why today we have this condition in me would tell hotel houses and hotel business on the Adriatic. Nothing is better in the camps, even though we have some improvements in some camps because at this point some have decided to privatize. I especially point out Lovran because in Lovran we have ruins from the hotel, not because they were bombed and destroyed but because the administrations had no money, they didn't invest. Closed facilities, sometimes respected restaurants, nightclubs, hotels, the last 10 years off-line. The competent authority in the administration, the supervisory boards, shall not make any solutions to the sale, the privatisation, or the investment. Therefore, on the Adriatic where there was no war destruction, we have ruins. Total losses of local self-government, of course losses and tourism. And therefore aware of these situations I say the proposed solution is something we consider acceptable. It remains questionable whether the solution in Articles 18 and 19 is good, and each of us is seriously bothering whether the solution to Articles 18 and 19 is good. Why? Someone acquires property without one kuna fee, so camps remain the owner of the state, spaces if they are not under the hotel becomes local self-government, other building land states. Only under the facilities, under the hotel land there's no fee. Something that's unusual, it scares all of us out of such a solution, and that might have been something that might have been a better solution. Any fee, any, symbolic fee, just for the sake of knowing that they paid the fee, there's no difference when we look at anyone in the process of conversion and privatisation. Why any compensation? So precisely because we could also find a low fee by calling for these problems of the tourism industry. They took care of exiles, they simply suffered war damage during the non-existent tourist season, they were simple concentrations where they did not allow quality economics I would say division and privatisation. So, for a number of reasons, we could explain why the minimum price. Because then we'd close the story to all those who didn't get the chance to buy that land at a minimum price and put it on par with the others. Since there was a non-solid business in the fund, part of the company is privatised with land, they paid for the land. All those who have not done so will now have more favourable treatments than before. For this reason, we believe that there may have been some quality solution, but he's gone, so let's skip it now. Part of us thinks that in the end it's not that bad when we take what all tourist companies have problems with, and if we go to the basic one, that the return of capital in tourism is if you go to 4.5 stars over 20 years, so it's not that high... activities are not activities that bring profits overnight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's something we can find an explanation for. But perhaps the challenge of the promoter, for five years we've been discussing this subject, would have been much easier for all of us today to come up with solutions for Article 18 and 19 if you'd given us information, and we could have been given data. Because we're all dealing with huge surfaces, and I believe that there's a far smaller area beneath the hotels that we give without compensation, and that these data could be present, that the companies that get it could be present. All that data the promoter has, and for five years it's been enough time to at least make our conscience easier when we raise our hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56689	Thank you very much. Just to let you know that we will do as the President of the Parliament indicated without a break yesterday, so I ask you to consider that. And now we're moving forward with an individual debate. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56690	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I see that the atmosphere in the Assembly during the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land is unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, sometimes and acceptance, very positively, with certain remarks that I would say very valuable, and amendments that have been announced, which will be tabled and very well thought-out proposals tabled here by a few MPs. I would personally begin not to say from the end of this legal material, namely, I would start with Article 32, which speaks of the rights of previous owners who have applied for a return of land. Therefore, this Article 32, and further Article 33, all the way up to Article 36 is linked to the provisions of Chapter 23 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, so the chapter on justice, human and civil rights, which includes property rights, because of this, when we read these articles of the final proposal of this law, we find other than the few to say the observed objections or indifferences, so called in Article 36, where it is said that if they simultaneously compete with the rights of the company of the previous owner and unit of the local self-government or the Republic of Croatia established by this law, the priority of the exercise of the right will have a commercial company. Only then did the previous owner, the local self-government unit or the Republic of Croatia. So the question is why is this order of priorities the way it is when we know that we are here to say in negotiations with the EU a little bit and stuck in the chapter on justice, human and civil rights, and certainly these provisions of this law also apply to this part. So the property rights of previous owners, those to whom this property was taken as said by someone here in communist Yugoslavia during the communist and Yugoslav authorities. It is clear that the Final Proposal for a Law on Tourism Land is one positive thing to say, a positive law starting from would not be euphoric as was our former president of the County, the Istrian County Assembly, who said it was good to finally apply the principle, the principle works and the imam. So I'd add more work, create, hire, and then have. So this legal proposal is also made up. And I see that all the parties here that have debated and individuals in that sense welcome this law. So does HDSSB, and personally. In fact, it is that both Slavonia and Baranja and our Srijem also have to say particles, land particles or possessions, and even tourist land in camps and others. It is a tourist plot on which hotels and tourist resorts are built which are also subject to this bill. It's an interesting solution to that so-called. the floor property under the object itself or the objects settles or gives, gifts not to say without any compensation. When we look at it, I'm afraid that with such a provision, such a legal solution will again cause me to tell the storm of disfavor or suspicion of citizens that it might be convenient again. And that is why it is a good observation from Mr Linic that at least symbolically or otherwise this issue, as referred to in Article 18, 19, is resolved or regulated. It is also from those provisions of Article 32, 36, and regarding Chapter 23 of the negotiations with the European Union, it is good to add in Article 20 and Article 24 a formulation that the right of ownership of units of local self-government or of the Republic of Croatia unless those land particles are subject to return, therefore to earlier owners. Here's one good suggestion I welcome. Mr. Hrelja here spoke of a concession fee. So it was the camps in which he proposed that the county also participate in saying certain 20% incomes, the Republic of Croatia 40 and the local administration and self-government units, i.e. local and regional self-government also with 40%. It is quite certain that the county, in view of the fact that the infrastructure, infrastructure development, which is responsible for road and other infrastructure projects in the areas of camps or where they are located or near them, I think that this proposal is quite objective, that the county has costs and that the county can also participate with these heres 20% in the concession for tourism land in those camps. An example of individuals in my county and mine to say to the nearby environment and throughout Slavonia and Baranja for the application of this law will be surprising. It is not just about campsites, on the coast, on the sea, on the Adriatic, on islands or on tourist land where hotels are already built there are also quite a number in Slavonia and Baranja. And here, I think someone here when it was the previous reading of this bill also mentioned certain catering facilities and facilities that have been built and which have been privatized in these 20 years, and now there is a particular problem exactly which will solve this Final Bill on Tourism and Other Land, and is located along our highways and along Slavonika, so Osijek – Sedanci, and also along the A3 highway in Slavonia from Lipovljana to Lipovac. In Brod-Posavina County, which is 135 kilometers long, we have facilities in both Lužana and Brod Stupnik and Sedanci, which also wants to be fully resolved by applying this proposal of the laws on tourist and other building land. And I think then those objects that are useful to the purpose of what they are, there are both their purposes and for the purpose of regulating the rights and finally moving to say in life or some gain, and in terms of principles, you have, create and hire. So, and their owners who are in the process of conversion and privatisation, especially privatisations have become actually owners. I don't get into what they've become, but they own these facilities today, along our highways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56691	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, distinguished Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56692	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the parliamentary committees, representatives of the club representatives, as well as parliamentary representatives for a truly constructive and comprehensive debate. I would also like to thank you for all the proposed amendments that the applicant will very carefully consider and decide on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56693	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56694	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, this is the third reading, P.Z. No. 423rd Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, the review of the amendment is divided into benches. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, Mrs Tatjana Vučetic, please welcome the Secretary of State. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 2
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56695	It's unacceptable. The conversion of social property was carried out only on social legal entities which were holders of rights of use, management and availability, and not only owners of certain properties, so such legal manipulation must contain this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56696	Thank you. On behalf of Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56697	This is not disputed what it was, it is not proposed to delete, however, this second indent, or final sentence, and which carries out the tourist activity, which is the holder, so in the present, continues to be the bearer of the rights of use, management and availability. So, for this past until now, and conversions and privatisations are not controversial, but after conversion, after privatisation, you continue to use terms and powers that stem from social property. You even say here which one he has. If you are already giving that authority and you are determining that they now have the full law, that means that they can sell and normally dispose of that land. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56698	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendments by raising our hands. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment of the SDP agent to Article 6(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56699	It's unacceptable. The applicant does not consider it necessary in this provision to indicate in particular the exception of the cases referred to in Article 22(1), since the practice of both administrative authorities and the administrative court of the Republic of Croatia has already been established so that such properties are owned by previous owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56700	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56701	It is incomprehensible to deny, therefore, that all the rights acquired by people received by the Law of Return, or compensation for property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. You do not give them any new right by this law, but, by the way, you also abolish those rights. I think it's unacceptable and it's about renationalisation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56702	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club and the HSS Representatives Club to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56703	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56704	This amendment has been accepted. It becomes an integral part of the bill. 4th Amendment of the HNSU Representatives Club to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56705	The amendment shall be accepted in part in relation to paragraph 3 of this Article, while the amendment to paragraph 1 shall not be accepted for the reason that the applicant considers that the solution is proposed by these provisions most optimally given the whole concept of the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56706	How would you vote if it was part of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56707	Only paragraph 3 is accepted is amended in the manner proposed by the HNS and HSU Representatives Club, and in paragraph 1, there is still the type of philosophy that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56708	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56709	Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased with the part that has been accepted because you have indeed accepted one suggestion. However, I am expressing my dissatisfaction that we have missed one extraordinary opportunity to recognise greater revenues to local self-government compared to the costs they have to equip camp infrastructures and pave the way for access routes, etc. In fact, our proposal was to make 40% of the concession fees from the land in the autocamps to the state, 40% to local self-government, so municipalities and cities with the highest cost, road asphaltation, public lighting, etc., and 20% to regional self-government that must in some way participate in that part. So what to say, I think what we have proposed would be a contribution to decentralisation of Croatia to a fairer distribution and I am asking for a vote on this unaccepted part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56710	Thank you very much. Who is for this part of the amendment that the government has not accepted? Thank you. He did not get the required majority, and so the part the government accepted was accepted. 5, Club of Representatives of the SDP on Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56711	It is not accepted because this law accepts the termology of the Law on concessions which does not know the termination of the contract and which is the same way as the termination of the concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56712	On behalf of the club, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56713	You can then only be consistent with that mistake you should have corrected a long time ago because such a term is unknown to the Law of Property and other real rights. I don't know in which legal system it's possible to unilaterally break contracts. It is possible to cancel the contract when legal or contractual conditions are obtained. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56714	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the sixth amendment of the same club to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56715	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56717	First of all, it cannot be the same argument because the Government is left with the possibility of discretion, even though the legal conditions for it to cancel such a contract are met unilaterally or unilaterally, allowing itself the possibility that even if a company does not pay the concession, it may not cancel the contract, and in some other cases it may be invoked to this provision. Therefore, our amendment is perfectly clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will cancel the concession contract if the company that received the concession does not meet its obligations in order. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56718	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to the seventh amendment of the same club to Article 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56719	It's unacceptable. The applicant does not consider it necessary in this provision to indicate, in particular, the exception to the cases referred to in Article 32(1), since the practice of both administrative authorities and the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia has already been established so that such properties are given to previous owners. So the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56720	On behalf of the club Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56721	You gave this explanation for the camps, so in no case will you return it to the previous owners, and now you claim in Article 20 that you will not return the remaining tourist land to the owners even though it is subject to return. Thus, there is a naked norm in Article 32 that you will return to earlier owners something that you have already distributed and there is nothing left for distribution to them, and this law even excludes explicit provisions, or the entire Property Return Act. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56722	Thank you. Who is for this amendment to Article 20? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Amendment of the Committee on Justice to Article 21
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56723	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56724	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 9th Amendment of Agent Anne Lovrin to Article 21(4)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56725	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56726	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 10th Amendment of the Committee on Justice to Article 22
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56727	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56728	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 11, Representative Branko Bačić on Article 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56729	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56730	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 12, Legislative Committee on Article 24
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56731	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56732	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 13, Justice Committee on Article 24
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56733	It is consummated by the adoption of amendments to the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56734	So that's right. You're pulling him because he's already accepted. Thank you very much. Retracted. 14, Club of Representatives of the SDP, Article 24(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56735	It is not accepted with the same explanation as I said before, so the applicant considers it not necessary in this provision to specifically indicate as an exception to the cases referred to in Article 32(1), since the practice of both the administrative authorities and the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia has already been established to hold such properties to previous owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56736	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56737	This is simply not true because many have achieved a return by law, so they have also received tourist land and this remaining building land. Unfortunately, not all of them are, and now this law prevents and the law even gives them the opportunity to get that land. So neither the land in the camps nor the rest of the tourist land nor the building land in you is a return. I think that's inadmissible. The SDP club is calling for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56738	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15th Amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction to Article 31
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56739	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56740	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 16, Club of Representatives of the SDP, Article 31.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56741	Consumed by the adoption of the amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56742	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56743	You take it back then because it's accepted. Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 17, Club of Representatives of the SDP, Article 32(1), paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56744	It is not accepted for the purpose of the land which was not subject to conversion or privatisation, and therefore no administrative act, or conversion solution, has been adopted in relation to that land.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56745	Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56746	No matter what the good part of this argument is, but if we put that argument into the full interpretation of the provision of Article 32, then I think that our amendment is perfectly needed, and that is because both judicial and administrative bodies that solve such cases are thus being assisted, and which is often the very fact that it is being brought into force and that it is then that fact that you say that if it is not intended, then all those who have been brought into custody would be dropped and disabling people's return. And you know exactly what time it was, so it was possible to bring that purpose in. You know that at this moment and after, so for so many years, such companies have often usurped land that was located outside of even that property and ownership of previous social property. And that is why it is precisely necessary to make it easier for the authorities to apply this provision. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56747	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18th Amendment of the Committee on Justice to Article 34?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56748	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56749	It becomes an integral part of the bill. The 19th Justice Committee on Article 36?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56750	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56751	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The SDP's 20th Club of Representatives shall also be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56752	Consumed by the adoption of the amendment of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56753	No, no. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56754	Okay. So he's retired. The amendment of the Justice Committee has already been accepted. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on tourism and other building land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. Please engage and vote. Thank you. The result? This bill was adopted, the final bill by majority vote, 87 votes for, 1 abstention and 33 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56755	We move to item 10, that is - - Final proposal of the Law on the Rights of Citizens of Other Member States of the European Union in elections for representative bodies of units of local and regional/regional/ self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 587 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Paul Matičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd say just a few words in the opening. In Article 132 of our Constitution, it is prescribed, among other things, that citizens exercise the right to local self-government through local, regional (regional) representative bodies, which are elected by members in free and secret elections, on the basis of direct, equal and general voting rights. The amendments to the Constitution have been intervened, the article, which also stipulates that the right set out in this Article in the Republic of Croatia is being exercised by citizens of the European Union, in accordance with the law and legal acquis of the European Union. According to the Government, the Law on the Rights of Citizens of Other Member States of the European Union has been proposed in the elections for representative bodies of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. The proposed draft law regulates that citizens of another Member State of the European Union who have residence or temporary stay in the unit in which elections are held have the right to choose members of the representative bodies and the unit and to run for a member of the representative body of that unit. A national of another Member State of the European Union shall be obliged to submit an application for a list of voters to the competent authority holding the list of voters, according to the place of residence or temporary stay, no later than 30 days before the day of election. The registration procedure and the protection of the right shall be subject to legal provisions on the lists of voters. In accordance with this way by adopting this law, we would comply with the provisions as prescribed by our Constitution, especially with the body complemented by the last amendments, and would also comply with the acquis of the European Union, so that citizens of another Member State of the European Union in the next local elections could be elected and elected as members of municipal councils, city councils and county assembly in the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, the government proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56757	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Okay. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56758	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposal of the Law on the Rights of Citizens of Other Member States of the European Union in the elections for representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The proposed law harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, in the process of exercising the right to vote and to run in elections in units of local and regional (regional) self-government, nationals of other Member States of the European Union who have residence or temporary residence in the Republic of Croatia, who are not its citizens. In particular, Council Directive 94/80 of 19 December 1994 lays down the procedure for the exercise of an active and passive voting right in local elections for Union citizens resident in a Member State whose nationals are not nationals, in accordance with the provisions of Article 8b(1). The Treaty establishing the European Community, which ensures that all citizens of the European Union, whether nationals of the Member State in which they are staying or not, exercise an active and passive right in local elections on equal terms. In this respect, the proposed law allows citizens of another Member State of the European Union who has residence or temporary stay in the unit in which elections are held to be elected by members of the representative body of that unit of local, regional self-government. The earlier nationals of another Member State of the European Union shall be obliged to submit an application for registration in the list of voters, according to the place of residence or temporary stay, no later than 30 days before the start of the election, with a presentation from the public notary, of a declaration stating his nationality, address of his residence or temporary stay in the area of the unit where the elections are held and a declaration that no voting rights in the Member State of the European Union of which he is a citizen. In addition, the proposed law provides that a citizen of another EU Member State and an EU Member State may be nominated and elected to be a member of a representative body of a local and regional (regional) self-government body under the same rules applicable to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, provided that he is not deprived of his or her right to run in the Republic of Croatia and the Member State of the EU whose nationality is not a judicial authority or state whose national authority confirms that he is not deprived of the right to run in that country or document that such disqualification in that State is not known. Furthermore, the law suggests that if the candidate does not deliver such evidence to the competent electoral committee, i.e. a document of the competent authorities of the country whose nationality his candidacy is, he will be considered unjust. In the event that the competent electoral commission declares the candidate to be an unjust candidate of another EU Member State, it shall have the right to object to the competent electoral commission, i.e. in the second instance of the law of appeal to the Constitutional Court. The proposed law also obliges the competent electoral commission to inform the public of the way in which the voting and candidate citizens of another EU Member State are entitled to be a member of the representative body of the units through means of public communication. For this reason, given the need to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the EU acquis in a concrete case of compliance with EU directives in the field of voting rights and candidateship in local elections, and that this proposal is one of the negotiating conditions for Chapter 23-Court and fundamental human rights, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Law on the Rights of Citizens of Other EU Member States in the elections for representative bodies, units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56759	Thank you. It is next to the HNS-HSU Club, the distinguished representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56760	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Since its draft, the European Economic Community has given particular attention to the important principles of freedom of movement of people, goods and capital. In this respect, and the equalisation of legal practice in the rights of their citizens in particular. So the directive itself has resolved this issue uniformly for all EU member states since the end of 1994. Of course, the transformation of the European Economic Community, i.e. the European Economic Communities into the EU, has further strengthened the need to bring these criteria into line in the movement of people, i.e. in the settlement and acquisition of all relevant rights. Especially after several waves of EU enlargement when countries that have joined as new members practically doubled the EU have expanded the area where large population migration has been recorded. Migrations are not only economic, they are also existential in the sense that many people move to other countries not only because they have jobs in other countries but also because they are related, which they go to live somewhere else. If we look at what is happening in the demographic sense in the great countries of Europe, such as Italy, Spain, Great Britain or Germany, then we would see how important this issue is. Because in these countries, foreigners, or citizens of other EU countries, are measured even in millions. It is particularly important that if a citizen of another Member State moves to a new country in which he will live, he can fully integrate himself into the local community and can make a quality contribution to its development, which means he can also participate in decision-making processes. This is about both active and passive voting rights. Here it is said, therefore, that the possibility that not only inhabited foreigners can participate in the elections as voters but also that they are open to the possibility of participating and running for certain responsibilities that are elected in local and regional self-government, which is actually equalized in political rights with the domicile population because they also pay taxes, participate in social life, in economic development. What makes us different from other member states is that we are a largely emission country when it comes to the movement of people and we still cannot talk about the mass arrival of citizens of other European countries, EU countries, in our areas. However, we must be aware that the Republic of Croatia is a very pleasant country for life and that if we have already been missed by a large wave of business people who, due to their companies' policy, have found refuge in countries like the Czech Republic, Hungary or some other countries where regional centres of multinational companies are mainly located, then the numerous plants of large economic operators from the EU area will certainly not bypass us from a large number of people who will also look for a place of life in Croatia. In terms of population, therefore many foreigners do not live in the Republic of Croatia, and many still do not live. But if we see how the situation took place in Portugal, Spain and France as three equative examples in which people who have already acquired material security, material independence, who even in the third age decided to change their place of residence, then we can also expect at that level and proportionate to their size that trend that we are now slowly noticing in Istria will be continued in all coastal counties of the Republic of Croatia. So that many foreign citizens, EU citizens will just identify the Republic of Croatia, find and choose as the place where they want to live and as the local environment in which they want to participate. Of course, many countries in accession procedures have also taken up stable delays or adjustments. This law states that it will enter into force on the date of its adoption and will apply at the time of its accession to the European Union. However, I would like to ask whether our negotiating team has had any arrangements or negotiated delays in this regard, because in some countries the delay in applying these principles has been defined through 2, 3, 5 or even more years when the delay is reflected and the right of citizens of European Union countries to vote for the European Parliament, for example. In that sense, it would be good to know if there are any delays. It will formally remain in the law a date which is related to the accession of the European Union itself but the application itself is possible to be in negotiations and delayed, we do not have any information on this, perhaps it would be good to get them. Furthermore, what is very important is to clarify the position of citizens of the European Union countries within the meaning of the Foreign Law. This Law defines that an active voting right will also be acquired in cases of temporary stay. We need to know that our Foreign Law defines a temporary stay for those foreigners who gain that right for a period of more than 30 days. We also know that our laws governing the rights to run for elections define the obligation that the candidate is registered for at least 6 months at the site of the unit of local or regional self-government if he wishes to accept his candidacy. In this context, I would be interested in whether the citizens of the European Union will have certain exceptions, they have been identified by amendments and additions to the Law on Foreigners adopted from 2009 but we do not see from this text the explicits of what this ultimately means when a citizen of other European Union countries receives, for example, a working permit for a year and when that work permit expires, or when changing the employer, or when the reason for which he has received a temporary or permanent stay is changed. This means, in particular, that in the case of a local self-government unit someone is running and elected on the list of deputy mayor or municipal mayor, we know that under our Law, deputy mayors, mayors and mayors can carry out their duties professionally or voluntarily, whether his volunteer engagement is, in that sense, the full reason for his residence and whether it will have any interference in his performance. In any case, the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Position is that this harmonisation with the Council Directive of the European Union Croatia begins to attract the fact that migration will itself be a space of migration as an internal part of the European Union's space and that it is more important to understand that in our electoral legislation, or legislation defined by voting rights, we must also include citizens of other countries exactly how it will be made possible in other Member States of the European Union for all of our citizens who are temporarily staying there. This is particularly important to us because a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia live especially in Central European countries where they exercise a whole range of rights and, of course, the right to work among them, in any case in some countries already actively participate in local elections where this legislation has specifically defined. So, just as we will allow citizens of the European Union to stay in Croatia temporarily or continuously to choose and be elected in local and regional elections, we must be aware that this right is automatically recognised by the European Union and all of our citizens who are temporarily or continuously staying abroad. So in this sense, the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Welcomes this Bill proposal and will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56761	Thank you. Short description of the applicant, esteemed Pavle Matičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the debate brought by the clubs on this bill. I would just like to point out, in particular, that this is about the law of the Member States of the European Union on active and passive voting law relating to elections for representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, so this right does not apply to elections for municipal mayors, mayors and mayors, but only to elections for members of representative bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56763	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56764	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Citizens of Other Citizens of the European Union in the elections for representative bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government units. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 587. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require most of all MPs in the Assembly. So at least 77 votes. I am voting on the final draft law on the right of nationals of other countries, a member of the European Union to vote for representative bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government units. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 121 for, nothing abstentions and one against, along with... and none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56765	Moving to point 11. - Final draft law on fire protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 589 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the interior ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56766	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you a bill on fire protection. The applicable Fire Protection Act has been in force since 1993 and since then has been amended several times and completed. The existing legal solutions have become obsolete precisely because of the time since the adoption of the first law and are not in line with the latest legislation in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the legal acquis of the European Union, in particular in the section relating to procedures conducted before state bodies responsible for the spatial planning and construction, freedom of movement of goods and the protection of the environment, while individual areas, for example, assessing conformity and placing on the market and making available to fire protection products and their supervision are not at all regulated. The proposed law on fire protection against the applicable law adopts a number of newspapers in order to regulate the area of fire protection and regulates fire protection systematically and fully, taking into account socially and economically acceptable fire risks. The term fire protection shall be introduced and the obligation to adopt documents against fires of the state level, the National Fire Protection Strategy shall be prescribed for a period of at least 10 years, and the National Fire Protection Plan for a period of 4 years, as well as the submission of a report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of fire protection in the Republic of Croatia. Presumptions are prescribed to improve fire protection, comply with the provisions of this law with the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, strengthen the position of fire protection inspectors and facilitate the business of economic operators. This law for whose implementation in the state budget does not require additional resources to be provided will certainly improve and increase fire protection security and will certainly provide a good basis for the work of fire protection in a modern and efficient way in accordance with best European practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56767	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56768	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The applicable Fire Protection Act has been in effect since '93. The year and since then has been changed on several occasions, and here are the existing legal solutions that have proved to be obsolete and not in line with the latest legislation in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the legal gains of the European Union in the section concerning freedom of movement of goods. While some areas are not regulated at all, such as the question of assessing conformity and placing on the market or the availability of fire protection products and their monitoring, and certain issues are regulated in another way. Firearms are transferred to the jurisdiction of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. The number of buildings and premises that fire protection inspections have a total of 111 inspectors who are planned to oversee is first category 46, second category 470 objects, third category about 1800 objects and fourth category almost 7,000. Important newspapers in relation to the current Fire Protection Act are a systematic and complete arrangement and the area of fire protection is arranged, strategic documents are introduced, the National Fire Protection Strategy, the National Fire Protection Action Plan, as well as the Fire Protection Report in the Republic of Croatia. It is then easier to operate on economic operators so that the adoption of regulations must take account of socially and economically acceptable fire risks. The transfer of obligations to a third party through a contract shall be made possible and the granting of the power to perform fire extinguishers shall be granted to manufacturers and importers. Presumptions for improving fire protection, the possibility of encouraging and financial support, the making of expert studies, projects and programmes of safe technologies and procedures in areas that reduce or prevent fires and spreads shall be prescribed. The introduction of an obligation to develop fire protection elaborates as a basis for the development of a major project in the process of obtaining a building permit, this applies only to complex buildings, as well as to the verification of the main project regarding fire protection against authorised auditors, which are the assumptions of the introduction of internationally recognised budget methods and EURODO designing fire protection methods. It shall be fully coordinated to participate in procedures conducted before the authorities of the state administration responsible for spatial planning and construction. It shall be authorised by the Minister of the Interior to regulate the rules on fire protection, especially when the Croatian legislation is harmonised with the acquis of the European Union or to regulate the questions of authorisation and conformity assessment of fire protection products and their surveillance on the market or at the disposal of them. The position of fire protection inspectors shall be strengthened by authorising them to adopt a solution with orders and to temporarily apply the prohibition measure. The prohibition may also be imposed orally, using the sealing measure and the powers and duties of inspectors in inspection supervision shall be clearly prescribed. On the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, sublegal regulations adopted under the applicable Law shall be aligned with decisions of the European Commission accompanying the Construction Products Directive in the section relating to resistance and reaction to fire. In the end, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this Fire Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56769	Thank you. It's SDP's turn, distinguished representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56770	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the Ministry of the Interior. Let me, on behalf of the SDP Club, immediately say that the SDP Club will support the Fire Protection Act because the fact is that in many solutions, this law is a step towards the level of fire protection as a whole and not only to the level of fire protection but also to the harmonisation of the legislation of the European Union. Let me say at the very beginning that this Fire Protection Act as much as it looks like let's say one law that we're going to pass today, whose implementation is what a man would say like any law. However, this law has a profound impact on life and work. It has a significant impact on economic and legal entities and this law produces and certain financial obligations at many levels. Since fire protection is a multidisciplinary category, one integrated system because the fire as such and the fire of the ages cannot be eliminated but can be significantly reduced. Therefore, the whole system of measures taken both organisational and technical must be and are aimed exclusively at reducing the dangers to the minimum possible level, that when technical and organisational measures cannot respond to the dangers then the danger or fire or explosions arise, whether from the cause of technological or any other might be with adequate forces, with the right promeptic organised forces and solved, which is the system of fire protection, that is, firefighting. Whether it's an organisation in legal persons, economic operators, and it's made by fire departments, whether it's a public fire department or a voluntary fire company. What we need to say is that we believe that this is one step that we have taken now, that in the next period there will have to be deregulation in this area because practically many things cannot be organised quite precisely, but many things are subject to organisation, or I would say regulation as it has been present in the West for many years. When I talk about the West, I mean from the United States that we can't normally compare, but to the countries of the European Union. What I'm saying is that as regards the technical measures that can and must be taken that primarily I think because it's complex I'm going to stick to what's now and in the law, which is that all materials and products are not only used in the fire protection system or in the fire protection system as a device and equipment, but practically all the materials that we're surrounded in our life today are whether in our personal life, whether in the workplace, so here there are exactly standards in this part of the defined and standardised that these materials must be made, or from a security point of view, i.e. Fire protection and danger of explosions. That's where the biggest problem comes in. Otherwise, even here when I'm talking to the biggest problems normally, making materials according to certain norms and standards costs. It has its own price and there, if we don't have good control, if we don't have a good control system, the system that we're going to control can come to what they say about not installing materials that have the necessary characteristics. And here we always remember, many will remember this particularly little older one film called "Hell Tower" which has been a long-standing educational film in many countries in Europe and the world and in fire, a hellish tower where it was seen on a school example, that's the movie if you remember Robert Redford and Paul Newman where you saw the consequences of exactly eskiculating or ineligible conduct of surveillance control control, building material when in one instance the skyscrapers for x reasons have created so many problems where people have died, etc. That movie isn't made up. He was filmed on the basis of a real event in one skyscraper. That means speaking and it will be necessary in the second phase to take care of it strictly and I must also say that we support the positioning, or valorizing the fire protection inspector. As far as I can see in the materials, there's an inspector, because these people have a key role between the entire inspection system on each segment to control. It means that they control everything that happens in that area as a guarantee that all materials that are built in from the point of view of fire protection will be met and that when a problem arises, these problems will be solved. I must also say that this part relating to deregulation in the examination of the system, i.e. protecting whether these are stable systems, fire extinguishers, equipment with which we are also surrounded around us. So there should also be certain control. The solutions that exist, which exist in Europe, were the solutions for which manufacturers who place certain products on the market that have to satisfy certain certificates are those which determine the conditions in which these equipment will, in which way, be examined, certified and correspond to that. However, there is again the role of the state apparatus, i.e. the resolution body, i.e. the lever, which are inspectors to control and monitor in this area all that is done and handled under the legal rules. I also have to say that legal persons where more specific obligations are allowed, which are legal persons first, other categories don't have to be as strict as they were now in the current law that certain fire protection jobs, or certain obligations, can be put down, or agreed with legal persons, whether they are legal persons, whether these are fire departments, are also one good solution just to be careful that and should also be taken care not to turn it into the other opposite, because so far there have also been pressures to be made for purely technical reasons, practical reasons, if we want and the reasons of financial, savings etc. However, we must be careful not to turn it into another opposite because the tendency and pressure to leave as much commitment as possible with legal persons to someone else and, as a general rule, burdened with financial commitments and financial problems, i.e. the separation of legal persons. It is also important to highlight that part in spatial planning. When I say spatial planning, then I mean the whole process of bringing ideas into some space to implement, to building permits. And it's always going to be and there's going to be pressure, there's always going to be a conflict between financial separations, burdens and what needs to be done in that space. Therefore, there is, however, the role of the rule of law that, under the legal rules, it is very rigorous to control, that it does not allow certain things to be reduced or not implemented, not implemented etc. When I speak here, too, I must support that on several occasions in the new draft law, a fire organisation, means that fire is included in this fire protection system through an opinion. It is not a well-determined opinion whether it is a mandatory opinion or not or merely an opinion, whether the competent authority will accept it, will not accept it. But ultimately, it's one step, because so far, as a rule, the fire department hasn't asked anyone to implement certain measures. And the non-implementation of measures both technically and organisationally generally had problems with legal persons and people who were directly at risk suffered damages and firefighters who for years pointed to some failures, some problems, however there was no systematic ability to involve themselves in the process of making certain decisions through the competent authorities, giving consent, etc. Now the firemen are involved through the opinion system, and that's good. It is necessary to strive as such, and I am taking immediate advantage of the opportunity that we have not had for a long time the amendments to the Fire Department Act on the agenda, when we have brought amendments and additions to the Fire Department, which we have also supported, which were a step forward, but I must say that as long as the fire department is not in a single fire organisation, until there is no dualism at the state level, it is not a good solution. I call on that resolution body of the Ministry of the Interior to go into the process this fall, this winter, because this is how it causes certain problems in the system of fire that also have implications for the overall system of fire protection, when I talk about the fire protection system we think of the entire integrated system in which the part and the fire department as such, which has its own legitimate specialis law. So I wouldn't have owed it any further. That step will be made. We'll probably get to step two soon. It is that we do not have to make all the explicit and immediately repaint all things from the European Union, that and take over, especially the part relating to certain obligations of anyone, but we have to adapt, it is good legislation, and I would say right away that we are only afraid that it would not come about regulation so that we do not become reregulated in this field, because many of the new obligations determine how to legal persons, so to the units of local self-government, regional self-government, which requires financial resources, will require financial resources. Thus, through the national programme the long-term, short-term plan will have to be very carefully defined by what needs to be done during this period, because we are simply living in such financial opportunities today. I know the deadlines are set here by 2011, so in a year, it's not for you to expect something important to be resolved, so we'll all agree. Therefore, he will need to see. But, well, we'll see what kind of experience it will be, but in principle, I repeat, and I end up here, that the Fire Protection Act is a step in this area. And I'm not going to finish, but I forgot, I'd like to ask the promoter, Article 18(2), you've written an explicit commitment that stands still today, which is that every citizen has the right and obligation when he is unable to solve the problem himself, to call and as it says there, that is to inform and write such a center 112, a fire department or police. I ask you, since it's about the Fire Protection Act, about the only explosion fire, because there's a fire system in which over a thousand voluntary fire departments, with over 50,000 operatives, public fire departments with nearly 3,000 operatives, then it doesn't make any sense that it doesn't say that they have to notify the nearest fire department, or the center of 112 or the police. It makes no sense, therefore, to be informed of the fire first. It may occur that in practice at 500 meters there is a unit, and a citizen, as it writes now, has to inform the legions of artis in order, or other concepts, and as it is technically connected then a call, a tip, whether there is a court in the fire department, or whether it goes to 112 and into a fire unit, these are technical solutions that depend on the area... But it would be like writing that in order to threaten the security of the property, the first thing they're going to do is notify someone else, and then afterwards, the police, which means who it's about, or the ambulance. [[You don't understand.]] So nothing changes,... Fire department, nearest fire department or 911 center or police. [[You don't understand.]] Here, I ask you to respect it, it doesn't change anything but there is, it could be interpreted like this, and it really doesn't make sense, and you know what in practice can cause it, that man informed 112, that information car, the firemen were 500 meters away, and they don't go into intervention until all the information has been leaked. Therefore, for practical and technical reasons, and if you want the essentials of the Fire Protection Act, it is logical to first inform the fire departments that I have told them about. Here, Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56771	Thank you, too. It is next to the HSS club, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal of the Fire Protection Act is therefore still in some way completeing this range of European laws, which is the regulation of the European package, which brings the area of fire protection into line with the acquis of the European Union. In addition to the recently amended law on flammable fluids and gases, and the Fire Department, we see this regulation as an upgrade to Croatian regulation, another component of the prevention, protection and rescue system of people and property from fire risk, so the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support it. Although the problem of accidents with significant environmental consequences is regulated by other regulations, primarily environmental protection regulations, the fires of industrial plants may pose the greatest danger to the environment and to the health of the surrounding population in the light of unpredictable circumstances and the development of adverse events. So here I'm going to mention another component covered by Chapter 7 of this bill. In several previous years, coordinated inspection surveillance shall be carried out in accordance with the Agreement on the cooperation of environmental inspection services. The coordinated supervision shall cover facilities subject to the obligations to comply with the uniform conditions of environmental protection, as referred to in Article 82. Environmental protection laws, so-called environmental permits. In all these surveillances, there was an inspection of the protection against fires, explosives and fire departments, internal affairs inspectorate, the Ministry of the Interior. Since Chapter 9 is largely detailed inspection supervision carried out by the inspectors of the Ministry of the Interior, we believe that, in this part of the law, Article 45(3) should highlight and co-ordinated activities as an important mechanism of preventive action, and in the light of Directive 2008/1EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, so-called The IPPC Directive, in the way it is mentioned, is in the recently discussed amendments and additions to the Sanitary Inspection Act. As proposed by this proposal, part of fire protection services is further transferred to authorised legal entities, in accordance with the Croatian Employers' Association. In this segment we see a small but significant contribution from this law to the expansion of fire work, and to the possibilities of additional employment in the economy, i.e. in the market segment of fire protection services, which is certainly important in these difficult recession times. By opening fire extinguisher control services, as well as the service of transferring the organisation and the work of liability of fire protection of the facility to a third party, the State shall open that section of the service to the market. It is important to note here that the state continues to maintain its obligation to control all those legal entities. This is mostly mentioned why the lack of proper supervision, and the high penalties for infringements of the rules may call into question the functionality of the entire system. Better communication is needed between the various state inspection services. This applies, for example, to the non-connection of data to which the Sanitary Inspection should be available through the Croatian Toxicology Institute, which should be shared with other inspection services in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, flammable fluids are often and dangerous to health, often have a volatile component that is subject to air protection regulations, or to environmental protection inspections. Because of the lack of communication, a legal person who complied with the rules under only one regulation, e.g. The Sanitary Inspection Regulation was recently able to import such fluid without any of the other inspection services knowing or reacting. And these flammable fluids were then stored in a warehouse that had no conditions for holding flammable liquids at all, especially in large quantities, and neither the import of volatile components of such substances was declared to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The inspection surveillance revealed this only after a long time over 10 years of using such a warehouse. In order to act in a timely manner to prevent fires, as well as serious accidents, we consider it necessary for inspection services to commit themselves to sharing information on dangerous and flammable substances produced, imported or transported to Croatia as well as information that they establish during their regular controls. Finally, and encouraged by Chapters 2, 4 and 5 of this law concerning the organisation of the fire system in the Republic of Croatia, I would like to commend the State Fire System for its efforts to protect the population, tourists and our assets. Maybe most MPs aren't familiar with the fire defense system during the summer months, so I'm taking this opportunity to get some of the data on the last fire-fighting season. Although the number of fires last year was higher than the 5-year average of the previous years, the total area of fire was less than 1/5. A good schedule of fire-fighting forces and good organisation logistics teams have been deployed into more dislocations in a way that brings them closer to potential fires. This resulted in significant results during 2009. Since the fires on the open surfaces in the coast during the summer of 2009, over 90% of the fires have been kept on the surface of less than 5 hectares. About 90% of the fires were extinguished within 4 hours of the time of the announcement. Similarly, at no time has traffic been interrupted on any of the major national roads during the tourist season, nor has there been any need for the evacuation of tourists from any location on the Adriatic. This is because neither tourists nor Croatian residents perceive Croatia as an area of significant fire threat, which is mostly the merit of Croatian fire. I therefore once again take the opportunity to thank all Croatian firefighters on behalf of the HSS Club for every fire they have put out and for every life they have saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56773	Thank you. And the HNS-HSU club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56774	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The existing legal solutions to protect against fire are outdated and not in line with the latest legislation of the Republic of Croatia, but also with the EU. In particular, this refers to procedures conducted in front of state bodies responsible for spatial planning and construction as well as freedom of movement of goods and environmental protection. Areas not covered at all relate to the assessment of conformity and the placing on the market and/or availability of fire protection products and their surveillance. Inappropriate and insufficiently regulated issues of inspection of the implementation of laws and implementing rules and of the law, obligations and responsibilities of fire protection inspectors in relation to the European acquis. In particular, enhanced monitoring of fire protection products, which are related to environmental protection, is important. Strengthening administrative capacity and the capacity of inspection services to protect them from fire through filling, training and equipment with the help of European aid instruments is an important task in raising the quality of fire protection. The proposal of the Fire Protection Act in relation to the applicable Fire Protection Act provides for a number of newspapers in order to regulate the area of fire protection which is materially contained in the following: a systematic and fully regulated area of fire protection, taking into account socially and economically acceptable fire risks, is prescribed to improve fire protection, the provisions of this law are aligned with the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in the part of the proceedings taken before other public administration bodies in the areas of fire protection, etc., that I do not continue to list. The HNS-HSU Club shall have observations on the proposed solutions under Article 6 and Article 41. Therefore, Article 41, which has not been the case so far, gives exceptional powers to fire extinguishers, i.e. authorised producers’ representatives, are represented by representatives who regulate imported fire extinguishers. Article 41(3) states that the manufacturer or the authorised representative of the manufacturer prescribes the conditions and, or withdraws the powers of each individual fire extinguisher service. In this way, this law legalises us in some way the monopolitical treatment of fire extinguishers because they have powers to whom and when they want to give authority to service their fire extinguishers. In practice, it may look like this: the manufacturer does not give anyone a service authorisation because it has its own service and dictates the price of fire extinguishers because of course there is no competition. If manufacturers, or authorised producers' representatives, would not give each other the end-user service authorisation, it would have to call for as many repairers as it owns fire extinguishers from different manufacturers. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Agency for the Protection of Competition, which said that such provisions would give too much authority to producers that would allow them to control access to the fire extinguishing market since they act at the same time as their own regulator or as a competitor. Then in 2005, this provision did not enter the lawyer and today we are introducing it into the law. And a few words about Article 6. It is evident from this article of the Law that it was not too much to ask the profession when making it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This has been done by some other countries that today in the European Union, for example, Slovenia, but precisely because they did not have their own institution that would conduct further examinations and issue conformity papers. This is not the case with us because the necessary studies are conducted by the fire department and very high-quality, and Slovenia's experience is not the best, because, by recognising the certificate of conformity from abroad, fire equipment has arrived which is of dubious quality and even origin. The freshest example from Macedonia, I won't mention here, but he speaks very clearly about what it is. If we have an institution that can carry out certain tests and issue the necessary conformity documents, it is not necessary to give priority to any foreign producer to put their fire extinguishers and equipment into a free change in the Croatian foundation of foreign conformity documents. After all, such practice is everywhere in Europe, at least in countries that have such own institutions. In all Member States of the European Union, they are asking for the necessary tests in their institutions to be carried out for fire extinguishers and equipment in spite of the possession of an atheist issued in other European Union countries and their home institution to issue a Conformity Correction. And ultimately, fires are treated as a destructive environmental factor caused by natural benefits and human negligence. Man is the most common factor in the creation and spread of fires and natural disasters, such as drought, high temperatures and winds, cause large hot surfaces and make it difficult to shut down. We are witnessing the catastrophic consequences of fires in the European and other countries of the world, primarily human lives and then great material losses. According to the World Statistical Centre in Geneva, fires each year damage the world economy by approximately 1% of gross national income. It is similar in Croatia where 30 to 40 people die each year as a result of the fire, and material damage exceeds 40 to 50m euros. So 30 fires occur every day in Croatia, every 9 days one person dies from the fire and every 3 days one person is injured by the fire. With the aim of reducing the number of fires and reducing the losses caused by the fires, continuous improvement of fire protection is needed. We're sure it's past a time in which the improvement of fire protection was based on experience and accidental knowledge. As a result, it is necessary and designed to improve fire protection using all available scientific achievements and sophisticated technical means. This need is increasing every day because the rapid development of all human activities leads to an increasing concentration of easily flammable waste, and a growing number of fire hazards and the possibility of its spread are emerging in the process of work. The contribution to improving fire protection is certainly good laws and sublaws, as well as their application. We at the HNS Club of HSU think this bill will contribute to the development of quality of fire protection and therefore we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56775	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56776	Eleventh Final Bill on Fire Protection. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 589. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Fire Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 122 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56777	Now we're going to skip point 12 because we don't have the conditions for discussion, so we're going to move to point 13. - Final draft law amending the Exchange Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 591 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We have a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56778	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor. I will briefly express a great pleasure for this Exchange Act, of course on behalf of the HDZ Club, and then on behalf of persons with disabilities or on behalf of the Croatian Association of Blind Persons. Why am I saying that? For years, the Croatian Association of Blind Persons has tried to explain to them what such a provision is like in the existing Exchange Act, which is certainly discriminatory, and as we know Croatia has signed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Croatia has the Law on Discussion of Discrimination and it was certainly necessary to move towards amendments to this regulation in order for this discriminatory provision to be abolished. Namely, in the current regulations, the signature of the blind person has been arranged in a manner such as the signature of illiterate persons. So that was what the Croatian association of the blind, of course, and all the blind people in the Republic of Croatia couldn't agree with because, of course, they were not illiterate persons, only they couldn't see what they were signing. In order for that signature to be valid, they had to verify it at the court and everything was further complicated because it caused additional financial costs which we further place blind persons in an unequal position with other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. These amendments to the law are a good example of an exceptional cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Association of Persons with Disabilities. Here is what the Prime Minister often says about how the Associations of Persons with Disabilities to Government are an equal partner, and this amendment to this law has proved to be the case. In particular, here I have to say, I particularly express the satisfaction of the Croatian Association of Blind Persons and they have told me that I am free here to say what is exactly except for their initiative, they have launched these changes through the ombudsman and the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. But they are especially happy and especially grateful that the Ministry of Finance contacted them for their opinion and asked whether you were satisfied with such an amendment to the rules, that is, that is, how you were asked to do so and showed that a good cooperation produced fruit. Of course, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of amendments to this law, and here it certainly supports such a commendable co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56779	Thank you. It's next to the HNS club, HSU, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected to the legislator, colleagues and colleagues. According to the proposal for an amendment to the Exchange Act, Article 103 of the applicable law is amended, as has already been said, in such a way that persons with disabilities, or blind persons, are equally equal to those with disabilities. Following the amendment of Article 103, the signature of blind persons on the bond shall be valid without authorisation. Exceptionally, at the request of a blind person when she considers this to be necessary in order to protect her interests, the signatures shall be certified in a manner governed by the Public Note Act. The same goes for the power of attorney issued for the exchange of duties. In this part of the position of the HNS and HSU, I have submitted the amendment in a way that I ask you all to respect this amendment because our society should be particularly sensitive to people with disabilities, especially the blind. In this part of the amendment, it will refer to the request when the blind person decides to submit a request to the notary for the financial costs incurred to be refunded from the state budget. Why do I think this amendment should be submitted? For the simple reason that we have recently made it impossible for blind people to transport free of charge on the highway, for the reasons that disability benefits or benefits for the blind are the lowest in our environment. That is why I will submit an amendment to this bill and on the fate of this amendment will depend on our support or not this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56781	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56782	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Exchange Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. b. 591. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HNS representative club, HSU. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments to the Club of Representatives, Mr Ivica Mladneo, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go. Amendments 1 to Article 1 shall apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56783	The government doesn't accept. The proposed amendment would establish a question which is not materially the subject of the Exchange Act. Therefore, the cost of verifying the signature, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposed to amend Article 103. The Exchange Act abolished the discriminatory provisions against the blind, and all this is in line with the proposal of the Alliance of the Blind.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56784	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, please welcome Mrs. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56785	Thank you, Mr. President. I will again express regret this time that the government has not accepted this amendment. By not accepting this amendment, she proved and showed by not knowing how sensitive she is to this particularly endangered group of citizens in our community. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56786	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Exchange Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 119 votes for, nothing abstentions and 6 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56787	And now we're going to skip all the points because there are no conditions for them until 24th, so we move to item 24, which is - Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency in 2009 The Croatian Small Economy Agency submitted the Business Report in accordance with Article 15. Laws to encourage the development of a small economy. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tomislav Kovacevic, president of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56788	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In 2009, despite the lack of economic activity, the Croatian Small Economy Agency participated in the financing of 106 investment projects. So, with a total of 106 guarantees issued in the amount of 137 million kuna, we made more than 620 million kuna investments possible, and 48% individually considered a higher amount of investment than it was a year earlier. Also, the average guarantee amount was 18% higher and the average loan amount was 15% higher. We issued the most guarantees in the programme of agriculture, then the programme of the area of special state interest, then the growth and development programme and the new entrepreneur. Viewed by the counties of HAMAG has issued the most guarantees in Osijek-Baranja, Zagreb County, then Vukovar-Srijemska, Brod-Posaviska, Koprivnica-križevanja County and Virovitica County. In 2009, we paid a total of 4.3 million kuna for activated guarantees and on 31 December of last year we had a total of 497 million kuna of available guarantee potential. We implemented measures from the Operational Programme to encourage development of small and medium-sized enterprises where we received about 8 and a half thousand requests and positively assessed 2025 to pay a total of 78.4 million kuna. Of course, the largest amount here went to competitiveness-enhancing programmes, then women entrepreneurship programmes, youth entrepreneurship, disabled beginners, development of craftsmanship, cooperative entrepreneurship and co-financing of work and the development of an entrepreneurial support institution. Also, we continued to develop our network of consultants so that HAMAG had a total of 77 certified consultants in its network whose services we co-financed with a million and 400,000 kunas. Another very important activity is that we were working to prepare for the role of a future intermediate body, i.e. an agent for the implementation of structural funds. So, when Croatia enters the European Union, HAMAG will be an agent for the implementation of structural funds and we have been tasked with training people and preparing departments for these jobs. We participated in a number of other projects and activities both domestic and international character and here I would particularly point out that last year we introduced, improved the business system and introduced ISO system 9001. So, certified the management of our processes. You can see from the financial business report that we've done very rational business. So in the last year, our total expenditures were reduced by almost 11%, while material expenditures were reduced by as much as 19%. Here's what you can do in these few sentences for a brief draft report. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56789	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56790	Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency in 2009. The applicant is the Croatian small economy agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion: A report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency is accepted in 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted unanimously by 123 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56791	Moving to point 25. - Report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in HR and HTV programmes during the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010. – Report by the HRT Directorate on the operation of HRT for 2008 Carrier: The HRT Programme Council is the Proposer of the Report by the HRT Programme Council on the basis of Article 19. HRT law. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zvonko Milas, president of the HRT Program Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56792	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President. As the Council of Croatian Radio Television in its work report for the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 detailed its report before you. I would not specifically elaborate, but only briefly explain some of the parts and in a broader context say what is written in the report. First of all, I would like to say that the Council does not bring programme orientation for both radio and television, but only gives it an opinion that is unfortunately not binding or fortunate and very often because of the lack of funds it is difficult to accept, so we remain concerned about the satisfaction of the public at national and local level, and take care of the proper representation of informative, cultural, educational and entertainment content. Members of the Council of the Croatian Radio Television, the provisions of the law expressly prohibit any influence on a programme that has not been published and any pressure on editorial policy, and the Council may react in certain cases of violations of programme principles and obligations only after the programme has been broadcast. So far, the practice of reporting on the work of the Council to the Croatian Parliament has shown that discussions are most often dealt with with by individual programmes, radio and television shows, which neither I nor as president have been able to give all the answers, so we are in the process of this fact, and in the desire that respected representatives can get really answers to questions about discussions through committees brought together programme directors, editors-in-chiefs, and we hope that the interest of representatives for individual emissions and programmes is satisfied. As I have said, i.e. as written in the introductory part of the report, this is the fifth regular report submitted by the Council since the start of its term of office on 17 October 2003 and in accordance with the provisions of Article 19(3). The law on Croatian radio television. I would also like to remind myself that the Council of Croatian Radio Television in 2009 in line with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament in December 2008 when accepting the report received the obligation to submit two special reports and this Report on the promotion of awareness of women and men's equality in Croatian Radio and Croatian TV programmes, as well as the report on progress in the fields of culture of speech of complete and objective information and the development of public content in the implementation of public television programmes, and the removal of talks on possible corruption within Croatian radio television. This conclusion was carried out by the Council and, on the basis of those reports, the Croatian Parliament reached the relevant conclusions which it also obliged the Council to specifically analyse certain topics on this report and to report to the Croatian Parliament on what has been done. I would like to point out once again that at least once a year, the Council of Croatian Radio Television shall submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on its work and implementation of the programming principles and obligations set out in the Law on Croatian Radio and Television Programmes, as well as a report by the Directorate on the operation of Croatian Radio Television. In this respect, it should be pointed out that such a provision of the law is unclear, as it would be defined as saying that the Council is also responsible for the report of the Directorate which does not come from the law at all. The logical interpretation of this provision would be that the report of the Council and the Directorates is submitted for the same period or at the same time, since these two reports represent the whole and complement each other. In the future, to remove this time-debate, and next to the fact that the directorship can only give a final report on business after the accounts have been completed, it would be best to submit the 2009 report in the autumn, which makes sense since the adoption of the new Law on Croatian Radio Television is under way so that the 2010 Report can be submitted at the same time in 2011 at the same time. As shown by the report from the Croatian Radio programme and their implementation, the Council was largely without problems. This is thanks to the fact that the Croatian Radio programmes according to the members of the Council are fulfilling their public function, that they are at the necessary cultural and civilizational level but perhaps also the fact that Croatian Radio programmes do not give public attention as Croatian TV programmes, so perhaps a lower level of criticism. With Croatian TV programmes and their realisation, the council has been constantly busy trying to be as high-quality, more designed as possible, to fulfil their public tasks and maintain cultural and civilizational levels, especially necessary at the time of the increasingly aggressive performance of competitive TV houses and increasingly less and less resources for the realization of the programme. All of this together has been conditional upon multiple analyses of offered programme orientations, with recommendations from councils aimed at raising the quality of the Croatian Radio Television programme. As part of these analyses, the most attention, i.e. the most disagreements, triggered an informative programme where some internal, so to speak, disagreements, interpersonal relations that culminated in that poor sense, led to a change in the management of the information programme in such a way as to accept the mandate for the resolution of Ms. Hlorke Novak Srzic and was appointed by Mr. Renato Kunić as the editor-in-chief of the IT programme. The fact that we do not have a selected director with a full mandate is a difficult circumstance in the functioning of Croatian Radio Television. However, we believe that temporary leadership, so the performer of duty together with his team in the transitional period, is doing his job well, and that Croatian broadcasting in terms of what has been found so far is going towards stabilisation at this point at least financially, and we hope soon to program. I must point out that when the Council draws up such reports, it is limited by the fact that its conclusions are based on the reports it receives from the Croatian Radio and Television programme, with no additional possibility for a broader and more detailed insight into the problem, and let's say that in the section of the report on gender equality submitted to this Honorary House, it is therefore transmitted in their original form as we received them from the programme, and we can see that they are from the conclusions of the Committee on Gender Equality, that they are not accepted. Although the section of planning and financial opportunities of Croatian broadcasters is very important for the achievement and realization of programming tasks, therefore the programme cannot function and HRT cannot accomplish its legal and social tasks unless the funding is in order, but it would leave that part to the master, or to the director-in-chief. All other activities of the overall problems that we have encountered and which have resulted in the Council's initiative to amend the statutes, which has begun, however, because of the adoption of a new law that is under way, it has stopped. On this occasion, I would like to say that the approach to the adoption of a new law, which is under way, has shown great democracy and the breadth of the debate, and we think that this will contribute to a good solution and that we will consolidate the issue of public media in Croatia for a very long time. Overall, by assessing the work of the council in the reporting period, I can conclude that the council was very engaged, and that is why, and I must say that my personal impression, the fact that the former directorship failed to undertake a series of planned activities during 2009, both in the implementation of the programme and the development of Croatian broadcasting, in the term of office, and for those measures for which it was granted a mandate without achieving its objectives on the basis of the planning documents, we were forced to resolve the entire directorship at the end of 2009, and on the basis of the mandate they had made available to us. In line with this, three main directors' selection contests were held today in December 2009, and unfortunately none of them produced fruit, so we did not choose the director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television. It's a responsibility we don't run away from. From the submission of this report to today's Council held 7 sessions where most of these sessions concerned precisely the attempt to resolve the staff issues, so the concrete election of the director of Croatian Radio Television, but I say again, unfortunately, since the two-thirds majority of the eight votes needed to elect the principal, 10 of us, simply with the best will and with the discomfort that comes after that we failed. The Council has opened yet another competition, which cannot be reached legally at this time, since three members of the Council at the last session, or after that, have sent a written resignation to both the council and this honorable House. I must conclude that in the past few months, the council has failed to deal with the programme too much, precisely because of what was said before, and at the last session because of, precisely for personal reasons, disease, the term of office was made available by the director of the programme Mr. Domagoj Burić, the resignation was adopted, and was appointed as acting director of Mrs. Hlovka Novak's programme. For purely professional reasons, so long-term work on television and as a solution that we think will be exclusively as a transition to the election of a new person who will lead the TV, i.e. a new director of the programme will be selected to get results in terms of the quality of the Croatian Television programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56793	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. It is now up to the HRT Directorate's report on HRT's 2008 business. Here you go. Even though they didn't see it coming here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56794	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. The 2008 business report that is ahead of you, I'm just going to take out the most important details of this report. The objectives of Croatian RadioTelevision in 2008 are defined by a business plan, and are set as an intensification of the business stabilisation process, which means rationalising production, optimising costs, building a more flexible organisational structure, applying a new business information system, all with the ultimate aim of stabilising business through business policy and continuing to carry out the activities of the conditions of regular implementation. Business in 2008 shows a positive business result. Incomes of a billion 549 million 313 thousand 242 kuna have been made, which is about 1.3% below the plan, which can be mitigated by slower cost growth, and a satisfactory business result. The total income structure is dominated by tax revenues by 68.8% and marketing revenues by 22.3%. Marketing radio and television didn't make the plan. The achievement is less by 22.1% than planned. Business costs amounted to a billion 545 million 183 thousand 316 kuna, with slightly faster income growth of 1.1% and 0.2% less than the plan resulting from overall price growth and significant obligations of remuneration to employees. This trend in operating costs conditionaled on the process of rebalancing the financial plan. Programme orientation, production and broadcasting of programmes have been achieved in the planned frameworks. The Croatian Radio has accomplished programme tasks based on the provisions of the Law on HRT and adopted programme orientation for 2008. Croatian Radio through Radio station in Zagreb, regional radio station and Glas Hrvatska achieved 5 million 536 thousand 860 minutes of program and fully implemented planned production and broadcasting. The business result of HR is satisfactory. The revenues made are sufficient to cover the operating costs of the branch, for the business functioning of the music production branch, for the coverage of the corresponding part of the costs of the joint services, and the difference in revenue per expenditure which represents the total profit of the HRT during this accounting period has been achieved. The programme objectives of Croatian television in the first half were aimed at fulfilling the public service functions as well as maintaining a dominant position in the media environment. 24 hours on the first HTV1, 20.5 hours on the second network HTV2, eight hours on the satellite and 16 hours on HRT+. So this on the satellite refers to a picture of Croatia, or a million 502 thousand 907 minutes of the programme has been broadcast. The business result of Croatian television shows that the revenues achieved cover the operating costs of the branch, a contribution to the business functioning of the branch of music production as well as a part of the costs of joint services. Orchestras and musical productions produced numerous concerts for 2008, 40% more than planned and 10 thousand 809 minutes recorded. For its business operation, music production makes a contribution of HR and HRT in line with their business plan relations. Certain adjustments are also provided for in the rebalancing of the financial plan. In the business perspective of 2008, changes are being made in the structure of resources sources by reducing the level of debt by significantly increasing current liquidity coefficients and reducing liabilities to banks for long-term loans. There are already significant shifts in this area. Long-term liabilities have been reduced, in particular part of long-term credit obligations. Caution has been increased with regard to the claim and this, according to the collection of the claim, has a direct impact on the current liquidity. In this part, it's dubious, as far as the 2008 HRT Business Report is concerned. Here we are while we're here, so if there are any questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56795	Thank you. The government's representative didn't answer for a word. The committee's rapporteurs have not responded. So I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56796	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, representatives of the Programme Council and Directorate, representative of the Government. Report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programming principles and obligations governed by the Law on HR and HRT programmes in the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 and the Report of the HRT Directorate on the operation of HRT for 2008 late, and after all the scandals that rocked our public television we did not find enough arguments to give this report to the HSS Club. Since the beginning of December 2009, meaning over a very long period of time, the main functions have been performed by the performers so that, with all the understanding of the situation, the HRT Programme Council for 2010 has only adopted its programme on 24 February 2010. Surely our biggest remark on HRT's work concerns the editorial policy of the Information Programme, i.e. the bias and objectivity. When we talk about the report itself, it didn't really hit the point because in its large part it deals with the justification of ideology that is present in everything that is done on HTV instead of dealing with detecting the real problems that should be eliminated in order to realize the role of HTV as public television. According to this report, it is believed that gender and sexual equality is a fundamental problem for HTV. Of the 28 pages 11 covered by the 41 pages of the report, this topic was processed on pages 6, so more than 1/5 of the report, which is more space than any of the other topics, even more than the one dedicated to the anti-corruption programme or the state of the information program. As public television, HTV should represent the interests of all citizens. In this regard, one of the main criteria for selecting guests should be whom this guest represents. In fact, it often happens that the shows host representatives of political parties who barely have one representative in the Assembly or associations that have 5 or 10 members while parties that have an election result, associations, communities or initiatives that count tens of thousands of members systematically pass by, and this is particularly true when discussing general human values or ethical and moral issues, when discussing the relationship between the Church and the state, the rights of defenders or the situation of peasants and the situation in agriculture. Often in shows, people are called professional guests according to ideological orientation, not according to expertise. It is astounding that information-political shows are called guests who are, for example, the most objectively willing to see the Homeland War and Operation Storm, and on the other hand, it is generally known that their arguments in The Hague have been fully debacled in court. Or are they called guests who interpret that the incentives in agriculture should be abolished, and they live their whole lives as proletaries at the expense of taxpayers and have never done anything concrete. The regular appearance is so-called. independent political commentators who are known to have been or are still members of the advisory bodies of individual political parties and are precisely commenting on certain social and political phenomena within Croatian society. It is perfectly legitimate and justifiable to ask whether there is a political analyst in the Republic of Croatia who is either a political analyst of the democratic world horizon or who are only competent to address the Croatian regiment those who have been the heritage of the long-standing political pedigrets from the times of communist unanimity? There is also ideological selectivity in the selection of topics and how to process a particular topic on HTV as well as in this report. Some of the values such as gender equality and anti-discrimination that we consider extremely important are given great attention, so when the report begins to read, it is the impression that it is not about the HRT Work Report, but about the report on the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and Discussing Discrimination. On the other hand, on general human values such as marriage, family, motherhood, patriotism or education, education, integration processes in the EU, environmental protection, consumer protection, almost nothing. According to the HTV programme, viewers might think there are only two parties in Croatia. HTV's work model is also dimming for MPs and politicians who have constructive discussions and proposals, who offer solutions, which characterize the work and occupancy for citizens and not demagogues because they cannot get space in information and let alone some other shows. Because of the subjective display of the work of media representatives, public television has the impression of privileges that do not exist and that additional anger is created among citizens as part of a society that lives on their behalf and contributes nothing. Of course, there are such cases, but they should be called by name and last name, not all politicians or MPs put in the same basket. Members of NGOs who advocate traditional values, the dignity of a human person, the protection of a family, as the fundamental structure of our society almost cannot get any space on HTV. I cite only one recent example, the Association The Voice of Parents for Children has collected over 200 thousand citizens' signatures to support the general human values, handed over the signatures to the European Parliament, accompanied by several prominent Europarliamentaries to the Croatian government, organized by the Round Table in the Parliament with numerous distinguished guests, do you think it is mentioned in the Central HTV Journal? Of course not. On the other hand, on the other hand, the educational programme broadcasts which are not suitable for children with its content, I would like to remind you that on December 1st, 2008 shows for children who are provoking homosexual behavior at 10 and 15 o'clock on "The Road Beyond the Street" and 12 and 10 of the film "The Truth About Jane". More than 7,000 parents responded to these contents via an Internet petition sent to the HSS Club, and as far as I know, HRT's directorship, and I think this example speaks enough about what level the educational program once praised HTV's educational programme has landed on. HTV has shown that it has not made sufficient efforts to protect the majority and the value system and the majority in its programme, and this raises his role as public television. I have to point out here the truth is that the situation on Croatian Radio is far different and I mean it in a positive sense. I would like to remind you that in Article 7 of the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, I am obliged to quote "permanent, true, comprehensive, impartial and timely information to the public about facts, events and phenomena in the country and abroad, and to respect and encourage pluralism of political, religious, secular and other ideas, to allow the public to be familiar with these ideas". On the contrary, this article of the Law on HRT and also the Law on Discretion of Discrimination is a journalistic contribution on Easter 4th of April in the central daily and later on in Croatian television about St. Father Benedict XVI. who shocked all the believers because the journalist and editor commented on what they think the Pope should have said in his address to the believers. Never in Croatian history has the report on the papal blessing Urbi et orbi been published in this way and in this context the comments of the journalist and editors fall within the sphere of harsh violation of basic human and religious rights. For Christians, the greatest holiday of Easter was respected by barbarians, do not Catholic citizens have the basic right to respect their sanctity as all representatives of all other religions should. I must say that our comments from previous discussions are appreciated when it comes to emissions of Eco-zone and Consumer Codes for which we have sought better broadcasting terms because it is about emissions that contribute significantly to environmental protection and consumer protection. Unfortunately, the December climate change conference in Copenhagen has sparked the interest of all the world's media, with too few media echoes as well as comments on the consequences. Scientific and professional discussions on the subject have lagged behind, and one of the most significant international events in the last year discussed and discussed the rescue of our planet, the HRT was only shyly discussed on two occasions. We propose that the Croatian HRT website be improved and developed in an educational sense, in order to be accessible to children and high school students, such as public television in other countries and in this interactive way achieve their fun and educational function. The educational programme should be combined with new media expressions and opportunities, thus providing a significantly better quality educational content of HRT. In education it is important to interact and participate in information, to encourage children with the interest of content to watch, to compete, to get feedback on results, and by their knowledge of other participants of these content simply prove themselves. That should be a priority. This Report raises the eternal question of the relationship between sports representation and cultural events. Does anyone know that the annual concert hall VAtroslav Lisinski visits more guests than Dinam Stadium? How much is the budget of the disputed newsroom and how much is the budget of the culture newsroom, except for the publishing and concert activities of symphonists and choirs of HRT, and how much is the relationship in minutes of sports versus the cultural programme. Champions' League Tuesdays until it is left to another television house and Wednesdays, and UEFA on Thursdays from 20 and 30 to late at night and no Croatian club can survive until spring in these leagues. In the last few years, the prices of sports transfer rights have increased widely. We in the HSS have warned of this in the last report but we can't see that anything has changed. Perhaps you should be interested in whether someone makes a living in this especially in the transfer of those sports that have nothing to do with Croatia, such as Formula 1. This should be added to the culture of speech especially in sports contributions when certain leaders of our football clubs are released, which is why those who give them media space should be very red. NO, it should be commended to include hockey in a sports programme, namely, the emphasis of a group of enthusiasts who, by engaging in Club Medvesčak, delighted not only the citizens of Zagreb but also the whole of Croatia. Svetli is an example of how positive values can be affirmed through sport. In all the games, the halls were filled in and there was no excess at one game. Such initiatives should be supported and sent to the media because they certainly bring a quality message to young people in particular. HRT is in serious financial problems, more can be read in the media than read in this Report. What is the real truth is likely to establish for this competent state service, and we discussed in detail on the subject yesterday during the amendment and addition of the law on HRT and the new Bill on HRT where many doubts were opened about both the fee and the marketing space. Let's ask ourselves, who pays a 1.2 billion-a-year RTV fee. The same people who pay taxes to this country so that the whole planning and spending mechanism for HRT should be under better supervision and far more rational than it is today and we believe that the new Law on HRT and the issue will be settled. With this report, we can't give a passing grade at the HSS Club. We believe that there is a need to seriously remove the gaps that took place in the editorial policy and regular business of HRT in order to provide viewers with a quality program, timely, accurate and objective information, and to return the damaged reputation to those employees, journalists and editors who want to work and who are doing their job correctly give room for this job to do indeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56797	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. He's gone. I can see someone coming in, but it's not him. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. President of the Programme Council, Your Honor, Mr. Director. So here's what I have to say at the very beginning of my debate that this report has been on our benches for a long time, and I'm personally sorry that we're only discussing it today, so probably even in our discussions that we've prepared for maybe a few months ago, some things have changed. But we all know that we haven't discussed this report on the parent board in a long time, since the Information Committee hasn't met for a long time, so here we now have a chance to say a few words about this report. I will say that this report shows that it indicates a series of irregularities, liquidity problems and worsening financial indicators with minimal profit. These days, not just these days, but a longer period, we have an opportunity to listen to problems on Croatian TV. This was also discussed in this Assembly in part and yesterday when we discussed the proposal for a new Law on Croatian Television, and certainly we can all say that something is simply wrong. When we talk about the financial report then I have to say what it is for 2008 and here I asked that on the Board of Information of Mr. Directors, of course he gave most of the items certain reserves because I think it's already obsolete and it might not be too bad if we were to get some new report soon, the data would probably be quite different. Namely, the data on the debt of Croatian broadcasting here and the data we had the opportunity to hear in public do not match but well. We'll probably talk about it much more soon. However, what I have to notice, it seems to me that on Croatian television, there is still not enough respect for what is somehow the main content of public television, which is the expansion of space to prominent scientists, public, cultural and other workers who can certainly speak competently about many things, but we seem to be somehow spinning around in a circle which is in fact in some way not quite good. We don't get what I think we should get as viewers, so here's the thing. When it comes to national minorities, it seems to me that their problems are also not sufficiently represented in a sufficient number of emissions. So Prism is one of the shows in which we can look at the problem of national minorities and rights, and certainly it cannot be satisfactory. Of course, people of older age are equally, their problems. Let us not forget that they make up a large part, a large number of the population, and that they certainly deserve more space. I'll say it here, even though I mentioned it both yesterday and on several occasions, but I have to mention when I mention national minorities and people of older age, I have to mention people with disabilities. We are not satisfied with one show in an inadequate time, and I must say that we are, and I can see that we remain even from the talks and from some indicators that we are more satisfied with the radio program than with the Croatian TV programme. In fact, I'm not going to say that it's not enough, maybe it would be enough, I don't think there should be 10 of them, and that the problem of people with disabilities or the problem of minorities or the problem of elderly people has to show up in 10 shows, so they're going to talk about one and the same subject, etc. and only in them and nowhere else. But, in fact, when it comes to people with disabilities, it can certainly be said that dissatisfaction stems from other emissions, the information programme’s emissions do not pay enough attention not only to people with disabilities but also to not show what would be positive in some other shows. For example. The central journal often believes that something that is related to people with disabilities does not have to be shown in the central journal. It's just like that, even though I think she'd have something to talk about, so if there's nothing else here, it's one day when the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is that at least she dedicated that show to people with disabilities rather than that. So these are the things that already are here in some way for years we've tried to see why it is, to ask why, but unfortunately there was no answer. Problems on Croatian Radio, here you have, what I would like to mention earlier, pointed out in the report the problem that the HRT Programme Council can't get 11 members for a long time. It kind of seems to me that if it isn't such a key problem, I'm not saying it shouldn't have happened a long time ago. But here's what we all know are the reasons why 11 members aren't selected. However, the HRT Council worked with 10 members. So, it's not a number of members that are as difficult as some in public have tried and shown that the Director-General has not been elected precisely because the Council doesn't have 11 members, and of course it can't be taken seriously because we all know that it's not really a reason. We know how many votes it takes to elect the head director of HRT. But here I think it's certainly necessary that what happens as soon as possible, and somehow it's kind of nice to see from this report in these little homes how the Program Council warned the leading people on HRT should do this, should do that, should do that, should do that. However, it is obviously very little to benefit from the warning. And I'm sorry that here are the people sitting here today, maybe they had the best intention of taking a big step forward. But here's too little time, and I believe there's going to be some better results for a certain time. I believe that the new Law on Croatian Radio TV will certainly enable and that these things will no longer happen when it comes to the selection of the head director, so when it comes to selecting members of the Croatian Programme Council. But together, we all have a duty to contribute to the fact that we have the highest quality and as much as possible to make it clear to us and that we should not have to ask for very nearly the interpretation of his provisions. However, as far as this report is concerned, I must say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club cannot support this report, since we believe that what is already in 2008, that the data is different from those in the report, the financial data I am talking about. So today we're talking about all the other numbers. There's no way we can support that. However, I think it will also be an additional wind in the back of everyone to make sure that on Croatian television the situation is fixed as soon as possible and that it really is a public service and that all viewers, when they are already paying the subscription, are satisfied with what they are looking at. Of course, when it comes to the subscription, then I'm just going to do it again for a second, and what I said yesterday in the debate. I think it's good for her to shrink at this time of crisis and recession. But I don't think it can be the only source of funding, or the biggest, most important source of financing on Croatian radio television, but should also be turned to other sources. So I believe that at the most recent time we will be discussing some brighter data and some better programs and viewers who are certainly more pleased than they are today. I have another situation to mention here, so there would be a lot of it if you wanted to talk about what's wrong. But I'm not going to take individual examples here today except for this one. A few days ago, a memo was delivered to me by the Croatian Chamber of crafts. You probably already know about that. They spoke to you, too. I think indignant because here on the 16th anniversary of the Croatian Chamber of crafts since 1 July, therefore he did not think it would be possible for some national interest to pass it on in the central journal. The editor, not only in the central journal, but even in the third news, there was no talk in the third journal, and today when we talk about a difficult situation, I think this was a good opportunity to talk about new employment and some positive trends in craftsmen, and even at this time, the high patronage of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia was not enough to understand the importance of such a marking and to give viewers a positive picture that it is not all so black, but that here in Croatia and something good is happening. Here's what I've already said next to all the above-mentioned HDZ club won't support this report, but I expect within as short a time as possible that the real situation on HRT is going to be much, much better than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56799	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56800	My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representatives of the ministry and television. Let me first express the surprise that the HDZ club will not support or accept this report, although these reports seemed to be quite an excellent result of the HDZ club's activities, so I see one contradiction that is probably only to HDZ. In fact, HDZ worked pretty hard to get into a crisis in the Council, pretty hard not to elect 11 members, worked pretty hard to get all these contradictions that I'm about to say right now going on like this. Well, now I have to wonder how he won't accept the result. So I say so to underline that we will also not accept this Council's report, but that I think the opposite reasons why we will not accept this in relation to why they will not accept the HDZ club. We cannot discuss the positions and reports of these councils, and without, the report of the council and the report of the directorship and without actually understanding the environment in which it takes place. The momentary situation is therefore such that it is actually a paralyzed programming council, it cannot make decisions that are important to make, it is currently actually paralyzed and the board of parliament, precisely because such a type of majorisation has been carried out that has not unlawfully allowed the selection of 11 members. At present we have a situation where we propose a law whereby public television should be left without 300 million kuna, we have a situation where the law is passed, and in which there are so many more unresolved things in terms of the movement of the law itself, individual formulations so that it has come in the form of an alternative, therefore we still don't know what it will look like. In the end, and in all of this, the only bright point is how television functions themselves. It's the only bright spot and why? For one simple reason that is not mentioned here, but different shows are mentioned which we do not intend to edit from the HDZ Club, which seems to me to be better arranged there than what is heard here when it comes to different failures, type of crafts, 16th anniversary of the Chamber of crafts or any special shows, etc. That TV gives them 60% of public programs, and most of all, any other TV is 10% of public programs. That's what we're talking about. We are talking about the public good that this Parliament needs to protect, and the Parliament is not protecting it, because what is happening is that the Parliament itself does not give on its own what should be given the proper responsibility. I must return to the very appearance of this agenda point. She swallowed the difference between these two reports, these are still two different reports, so it's under one point they united one and the other, as in fact one report, and there's one key contradiction. Therefore, if we accept the report given by the directorship, which is critical of the business, then we could not accept a report which, if we accepted a report from the council that is critical of the business of television, we would not be able to accept a report from the directorship that says that everything is positive. Here let me get a few keywords out here, the principalship says that a positive result has been achieved, that the programme's tasks have been accomplished and that the radio and television have been positively doing both. And the programming board is its criticism and so to say to the cleaning lady who was now on TV, by taking down the principal and all those who were still there in the meantime, has just motivated not only this, by the lack of these elements,... The elements, but even the illegality of the work, all of this didn't come out in the end. [[You don't understand.]] Now the question is why people were resigning if here in these reports we don't actually see the reasons why it was necessary at all. There's nothing from the review that would say that if there was a crime there, there wasn't, the director's report itself says it's all positive. We heard on the board that although it was positively achieved by certain accounting gymnastics, if I use the correct term, but whether gymnastics or not, it is obviously a legal report, a legitimate report. So how do you accept each other now? How to accept everything that has happened, with all the tensions that have been happening, and at the same time the peace that comes after I think what one of the protagonists is, the director resigned, and what, then and hence the whole series of others must also withdraw, in order that you would eventually be the same then and reconstituted in... the programme council. [[You don't understand.]] There's one happy circumstance, as no one will accept it... As we can see, that is, these reports and the HSS Club have made themselves known, both the HDZ Club and us as well. [[You don't understand.]] There is one happy circumstance in the law that it has no consequences for public television, because thank God we were smart enough to know that such things could happen, and that I think television should still work. But this environment that was created around television does not guarantee that it will be positively solved. So we have a law that's in alternatives to some key things, we have legal formulations that are in favor of private entrepreneurs in television, and against the interest of public television, we have formulations that will take public television directly to the government, and thus... The content of the public, and at the same time we don't have a programming council that can make decisions in a competent way, it may not know what decision it can make at all, these key ones can't, because it needs a two-thirds majority, and we don't have a mood, let's see where we're going to go at all. [[You don't understand.]] It is amazing, then, that around one such thing there are so many spirits and so much excitement that it is somehow brought into crisis, but there is not at the same time so much enthusiasm to overcome solutions. I can't see what any party in this House can especially have in viewing the development of television as public television. I don't see at all where there's this difference between left, right, center or not, and we're discussing it in a way that we focus some forces, that we're actually substituting things under politics, under the political power of the new law proposal, which can, which is misleading, which can be this way and that way, instead of working together here, we're doing one technology, neutral technology to protect the information structure of the entire society that serves all of us to compete politically, but not to realize it as something of our own. I can't understand that. I can't also understand that in these reports we've just heard, and that... We haven't heard from Mr. Milos since Mr. Popovac that they've now been giving reports in the shadow of a very recent event, which is therefore a reduction in the subscription. [[You don't understand.]] I think the programming board and the directorship on that has no opinion which would be interesting if this Parliament heard, when the report was brought, so that I think about bringing it, or thinking about the mercy is exposed and waiting for what to happen, it's going to be decided by someone else, public television about it has nothing to say. I think so. So we've heard that 11 members are not a key problem. It took one vote to elect the CEO at one point, but it wasn't, but 10 of them were. There was once a Five vote if I wasn't wrong. I'm not saying that perhaps Mr. Popovac would be a better director who would have been second elected, but we could have solved that crisis if it was the eleventh because that voice would have gone either one way or the other. A crisis is produced, a crisis is produced on television irresponsiblely, politically irresponsiblely. And if we don't realize that this is by cutting ourselves and the entire political constitution in Croatia, the party's responsibilities, I'm not saying the responsibility of this party or that party but the party's responsibilities, we didn't understand anything about the elemental branches. Fortunately, HRT is not bad television. Since it's not bad television, I don't know because it's got to be what's going on around it and what everybody here is blaming, especially those who are active in what's going on, it's got to be bad. Well, let's make it look like the company's still out there, so there's something in the memory that's working, so somehow it's working. I want these people there despite the Programme Council, despite the directorship, despite the parliamentary committee, despite certain views that are so aggressive on the part of commercial interest in public television to be preserved. And I call upon all responsible people in the Parliament, regardless of the parties, to open their eyes. This is about the future of democracy in Croatia, this is about whether we are going to be able to express political views on public television, different political attitudes to be competent with each other and to be able to present something to this public. Because in all other media, these views are mediated by the interest of owners, by advertisers, by the interest of created structures of power, by economic powers, only on this public television are they not. At least they're not by definition. So if we allow this not to be a failure of public television, it will also be the failure of Croatia's political chances of doing something more serious, to step more stable in a more stable society, in a more stable political relationship in society's perspective. In that sense, we will also not be able to accept these reports because of their self-responsibility among others and because of all this condition, but we are warning of this view that is quite different from some other views. Yesterday we had a few outstanding contributions from the discussion. They weren't all on one side or on the other of these benches, so let's turn to them to get rid of the law issue because obviously before the law is passed here, there won't be any solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56801	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56802	Mr. Vice-President is an incorrect quote from his colleagues, Vujic, where he claimed, and this is an alleged, incorrect allegation, but also an accusation that the HDZ club has made quite an effort not to elect 11 members of the Programme Council, so the HDZ club has been accused and has acted against the law. That's absolutely incorrect. I would like to point out that in the biography of Ms. Vera Robić Škarica it is clearly written that she is a producer of 70 short films and therefore the possibility of conflict of interest was elicitant, visible and present, and therefore the representatives who were members of the Committee on Information and Media were rightly and legally acting in the same way. 18, because there could have been a conflict of interest. And therefore no 11 members have been elected. This is precisely visible, here from her biography clearly writes that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56803	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. It is next to the HNS-HSU Club, the distinguished representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56804	Dear Mr. Vice President, reporters, colleagues and colleagues. We are witnessing a paradox that deserves real attention. And this is that HRT is definitely the most important and most respected public television in the entire area of our region. In that sense, probably the most influential. The attention with which to monitor what HRT is doing, especially HTV in countries where Croatian language is understood, but believe it or not until Poland is not proportionate to the actual state of the HTV itself. Croatian television in the HRT system is certainly one of the most important brands that Croatia has in general in communication in the region and something more north. I'm sure that didn't come overnight. But it's worth being honest, so let's just say it's not all HRT segments. We can't say that for the information program either, and lately because of the problems known or sports, but we can certainly say that for scientific, cultural, educational and even film and even even partly fun where standards are set in a way that other public televisions in the region can't afford mainly because of financial boredom. The paradox is that such a television and radio house as HRT is likely to continue its agony for a good number of months, which obviously has no internal power to overcome the problems it is facing, and this report is visible not since yesterday, but it is about a contained state that lasts for years precisely because this whole crisis is produced, seconded from the outside. And let's be honest and let's say directly from politics. This is the first report of this type that the Croatian Parliament will not accept. All the committees that discussed these reports decided to reject each other. And the report of the Programme Council and the Business Report. First, the report, which will be rejected with the list, said colleague Vujic and left and right for various reasons. The problems that are being read from this report are many years old, and let's not even imagine this report is not much different from the 2007 Report. When some on this right were saying panegyrics to that report and now suddenly it's no longer good. This report is methodologically slightly different but it's more transparent than it was in 2007 so it's paradoxical that everything seen in detail and then read and then called accounting gymnastics, which is not illegal, we're told, now it's no good, and when it was more general and when it was under the rug was a big pile, which we saw but we didn't know exactly what was underneath the carpet, it was great. Obviously, the political circumstances have changed, we are obviously closer to the elections, and obviously the thing is that Croatia's television has started to be interested in the role of independent media, as much as possible in public television. What we certainly need is depolished television to the greatest extent possible, but who will allow it. HDZ 7 years with its coalition partners directly responsible for the situation on Croatian TV, how? Well, by most members of the Programme Council, it's a condition from that political option. What we're imagining to ourselves is that the members of the Programme Council are top experts who came there in the spirit of the world, they're politically defined people who came because of political references and there's no secret. HDZ and its coalition partners set up the majority, the opposition set up a minority. Looking to stay decent as long as it's possible for that choice not to be banalized and bizarre but to have people sitting there who know something about it. And now we're in a situation after a few years of raping a public television project that we don't have a functional programming council at all. The President himself says we can't make the most important decisions anymore. The most important decision is the selection of directors. Why? Because the biggest problems in Croatian broadcasting are the problems that can and must be solved by the directorship. If we're talking about irrational spending, if we're talking about catching parasites if we're talking about narrowing down the space of artistic, journalistic and any other creation on HTV if we're talking about engagement, over-engagement of external productions, but to break down the fam, HRT can't produce a program itself that is expected of it and it has to have external productions. But that fact was a lot of coverage that Croatian broadcasting capacities were not exploited but were used by capacity on the side, according to the prices that are due. Certain HTV producer houses work at prices that are more than the ones they normally offer on the market if you or I come with a request to produce a specific programme. First of all, it's a film or visual program. Therefore, we can say whatever we want, but the situation on Croatian broadcasting is a product of political will, a political majority. I will not say because all members of the political majority in the Croatian Parliament were aware of it and that they know what the product of this policy is. But now that we're facing the consequences, they have to face it, too. The story of the 11th member of the Programme Council tells stories of a potential conflict of interest, so it's a story for small children. This is the story of showing political muscle and trying under 1. to humiliate the opposition in the right it has and under 2. to prevent the completion of the programme council at a time when it is necessary to carefully balance access to the selection of the principal. Today's atmosphere on Croatian television is very bad, for several reasons. Because of the overall state of affairs, because of the frustration of a large number of people who work there and do nothing because they are not allowed to work. Because that's what someone else does, because they would do but they're not allowed to do copyright creativity and journalistic freedom, but first of all because they're threatened, first of all by reducing the subscription and the obligation to make 300 million kunas in a period of time, and that deadline is up to 1. The 11th redefines a restructuring and rationalisation plan that leaves all possible options open and leaves about 1000 people on Croatia's radio station without a job. Which one? So neither the parliamentary majority nor the congregation minority will decide directly, will be decided by the people who have been there for the past five years and who know very well how to do it. This school has been studied since Antun Vrdoljak until today and Croatian TV knows very well when it is due to finding internal reserves of human resources that know how cleanup is done. If we have already come to the conclusion that both the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority are not ready to accept the Report of the Programme Council and the 2008 Business Report, if we are already aware that the Programme Council cannot continue to function because there are no 8 members required, my proposal for Mr. President of the Programme Council is to step out of this membership, and that the programme council resigns because you are no longer able to carry out that duty, because you are not able to choose the Director-General because you are no longer 8. It's not your fault. It's your fault. It's your fault. I want you to resign, and let us deal with this guilt. I am sure that a solution will be found and that the political majority in this House will finally be put into a situation to seriously think and to deal with these problems seriously, because we in the opposition do not unfortunately have those tools. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party will not accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56805	Thank you. You've been picking up some of them since it's over. Come on, let's take it in a row. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Josip Djakic, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56806	Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a series of inaccuracies said by my colleague Beus, I'm sure you should say what the facts are. They are not stories for small children, but facts written in the text of the biography submitted to this Croatian home. 70 production works by Mrs Vera Robic Škarica. And secondly, it is incorrect that Mr. Milos should come out of this and resign, given that the Committee on Information and Media has opened a tender for three new members who will be filled in by the council and continue to function, given all those of you who resigned, yours and theirs who resigned and who violated the work of the same Council. So I think that inaccuracys should not be laughed but should be respected and should respect what is written in the biography of the lady who has submitted, who is indeed an exceptional producer, who is an exceptional expert, but would be in conflict of interest. This is probably your responsibility, as in all other fields that you and your party and your party colleagues have been in conflict of interest to you, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56807	Thank you. No throwing from the bench, please. The second correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56808	Mr. Vice President. I've listed seven incorrect allegations here, and I'll explain it by 6th in a row, and I'll read them quickly. Crisis produced, seconded from the outside. Secondly, the report does not differ from the 2007 report. Third, accounting gymnastics. Fourthly, political circumstances have changed. Fifth, HDZ has been directly responsible for television for seven years. The sixth, production on HTV is the production of the political majority and the seventh, copyright creativity is not allowed. I'm going to get to this point six production on HTV is the production of the political majority. If it were the production of the political majority... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56809	Please don't throw it out of the bench! ... So don't throw it out of the bench, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56810	If this were the production of the political majority then on June 10, 2010, when it was a historic date, the signing of a referendum would be certain that the estranged giant of ours would not be shown on television as it is a terrible advocate for labour rights, and it lives very well on the mangers of the Republic of Croatia and would not be so airy as to show...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56811	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56812	Your great desire and your struggle for workers' rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56813	Your time is up. Thank you very much. And we have the third correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's already a part of my colleagues that's been corrected, but there's a lot of it, and I'm only going to have one piece. HDZ's been working hard to get a crisis on HRT, is that what you said? Then you have amnesia, you forget very quickly. It is not true that HDZ has worked hard to bring about the crisis. Look, in 2003, your party SDP and author Mr Vujic was the author of this law that we rejected, and this law has contributed to the crisis on HRT. This should have been amended before by the Law on HRT because it allowed everyone and everything to be made public. All those negativity, apathy, everything that...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56815	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56816	All that's wrong is what we watch every day, and that's what Mr. Beus obviously fits you. And don't laugh...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56817	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56818	I know you're sick and tired of watching your pawns go on there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56819	Thank you very much. Time's up. I'd like to beg you, don't throw yourself out of the bench. Have patience because we are now moving on to an individual debate. It's the first distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The third time in a row when we are discussing the report and the Programme Council and the business of Croatian Broadcasting, I ask the following question, why is it not a problem Croatian Radio. Why Croatian Radio is not a problem by programme or information program, or relations that rule there, why it has always been observed in these reports that it works very well. Why in these discussions in Parliament no one is angry with the information program of the Croatian Radio, and it is part of the same house. You should have the same director, same Program Council. Apparently, in a part of the house people know their jobs. Then it should be commended, when no one has said it before, then I have to isolate it and say that within Croatian broadcasting there is a part that is healthy, which is Croatian radio. You write it shyly, you don't talk about it at all, and it's not written much about it. That's too bad. It is a shame that we do not commend what is good in Croatia. It is good to talk about what is not good, but to keep quiet is as bad as to praise what is not good. Then why is HTV, why is television a problem from year to year? The financial report by structure and by the dubiosis of the eighth, seventh, sixth, fifth, more or less the same. Now that's also a problem for the ruling one. A way of funding less the same. The misunderstandings around VAT have been present for years. So now, in a political sense, it has changed that the ruling coalition also considers the financial part of the report unacceptable. When a program council like this was established one of the strongest arguments was that there would be no policy in it. But following the press report from the Programme Council session and this phonogram that was given to us in this report, I have a feeling that in this Programme Council more politics and politics than in this assembly was the most common. And that's why I think the Parliament is also a part of the guilt that public television is in this situation today. Of course, that part of guilt always goes to the majority, and most are always ruling. Now I wonder if there is anything on Croatian television that is not V.D. or anyone other than V.D.? You have reduced Croatian TV to V.D. I don't know how many rounds of voting, so the contests are repeated, so they're called V.D.s. And how come it wasn't a problem at the time of the appointment of the first man of the information program without the majority support of the press? After all, what about Croatian TV, information programme and programme in total and the state of Croatian TV is thought by journalists. What's the journalist's opinion on that? I remember in the course of the presidential campaign, in one show on the day of the 120th and several journalists on the Croatian TV news programme warned of censorship in the information programme. And I didn't find, hear, or read that the Program Council reacted to that. And these days, Croatian TV journalists warn that they are not satisfied with the way the information programme is being edited, prepared and run. I remember such public television when politics and government appointed or tried to name leaders instead of the support of journalists and they prevented it with the help of the citizens. They opposed imposing political decisions on the profession. Unnamed excuses, not the selection of individual members, I could understand the ruling if it had lasted two, three weeks, a month. But the unnamed full composition of the Programme Council lasts for several months. And now we wave biographies here as if it would save the financial business of Croatian Radio-Television and improve the programme. And I'll end up with the one I've always done three questions and I've never got an answer from Galic before. Is it true that Croatian television hires the technique it has on the lager from private renters from cameras to other techniques. Is it true that the price list you're renting is three times bigger by which they rent that same technique to the same company to other televisions? Give me a final answer once if that's true. Deny the claims, which come not only from the house, but which in Zagreb can be heard among those involved, that it is best for Croatia to rent a camera. It's the most profitable job. Is it true that prices for external production are charged to you three times as much as other commercial television. I couldn't invent those questions, those findings from the questions that were raised. I've been listening to them for years, and nobody ever wants to be obvious about it. Never publicly say, give prices, comparisons, facts, anything. And is it true that part of your people are reselling propaganda programs, the EPP's time through various different agencies that are interested in some of the HTV officials. Because if these three findings are correct that I've given in my questions, then no new law, no new Programme Council, but a forced administration, only forced administration and painful cuts can save to clear this up and answer the question of how to get out of it, then they lie in those facts. I was expecting in these reports and comments on these facts that are being talked about, conjectures, speculations. If only a fraction of it is true that this is how money is sucked out through companies, businesses and agencies that some of them own high-ranking people only in HTV, then it's a crime. This is now a unique opportunity for you to deny and reject all such speculations in the House or to confirm that there is a sign of that. But if you don't do it now, I'll be convinced that those who say they're right and it's true, so long as we don't officially get an answer that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56821	Thank you. Just for the precision of four questions. Yeah. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 15.52 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. So we still have four individual discussions and that's what we're gonna end up with. It is up to President Karolina Leaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of HRT representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Culture. This is when we talk today about the report on the work of the HRT Council in 2008 to 2010 and the financial, i.e. the 2008 report on HRT business, I must, of course, express my dissatisfaction with the fact that only today we are talking about these two reports, although, for example, the report on HRT's business was discussed at the meeting of the Council in November 2009. So in the future, I believe that, of course, these reports must be delivered to the Croatian Parliament within the appropriate time limit, so that, of course, they are discussed in a way that our observations and our proposals and the indications on these reports are respected and, of course, when making other reports in the course of the observations that we have proposed are also included in the preparation of these reports. At the very beginning, I would say that when we talk about public television today, I do not want to defend HRT as it is today, but as it should be, and we also talked about it yesterday during the debate on the new proposal of the Croatian Radio Television Act, when we stressed that HRT must be public television, not television under the title of the ruling party, which, of course, I also stressed that HRT is much more than the information programme, that HRT in Croatia is one of the most important, if not the most important production house, and that is why, of course, all the earthquakes on HRT are mainly taking place and breaking into human resources, in the information policy programme, but not only in the information policy programme are maintained and much wider than HRT. So from making this report and from these... The period to which it relates, the HRT has seen a number of staff changes, one whole new set of furniture has come, and therefore you are the most responsible person. [[You don't understand.]] Otherwise I have to say that you were mostly on board sessions when we were discussing reports from these reports, you didn't do it today, and that's also the same curiosity. The changes on which V.D. is current The structure on the HRT is ready and, which, which it advocates and swears to, speaks of, of course, the recent appointment of Mrs Novak Srzić, which, in the report of the programme council we are discussing today, states that she has been resolved from the post of editor-in-chief of HTV's information programme due to observed shortcomings in the management and organisation of work. That is why it is very strange that the same person is proposed and elected to a place that is somehow sought by a person who knows how to manage and organize work. You said that choice was a transitional solution, we'll see if that's what it's really going to be. I will refer first to some of the allegations from the annual report on HRT's business, and in fact I would like to point out that in this report and in the phonogram of the Croatian Council on the report, it has been shown that the business of HRT is controlled by even three audits, internal, independent, commercial audit and state audit, while the implementation of legal and other regulations is controlled continuously and by various state inspections, and in fact I do not understand why it is claimed that HRT's operations are not being controlled, and that it has not been controlled, therefore it is clearly controlled on several sides, and the right is in fact the question of how it is done and what the findings are, or how it is being handled. That is why I would like to stress that the claim that the supervisory board proposed in the new proposal of the HRT Act is the only solution for monitoring the transparency of the spending of funds on HRT is in fact incorrect, because if desired and desired, and that the control of the spending of funds could actually be carried out and was clearly carried out through other mechanisms. Therefore, the claim under which the Supervisory Board is, as we said yesterday in the proposal for a new HRT Act, a body not only oversees business, but participates in the selection of HRT administrations which is inadmissible, this claim is correct, and I also repeat that the request of the European Commission in which the applicant is called on in the draft law is, in fact, required that the supervision of the business is carried out by an independent body, which is part of the HRT structure in no way. However, regardless of the findings of these audits, regardless of the financial management report, it is somehow a general opinion that HRT does not operate rationally, that the service provided is therefore not at the level at which citizens expect it. Therefore, it is said that on HRT, certain stakeholders, etc., therefore, there is a suspicion of the legality of the operation of HRT and are in fact being challenged and effective public supervision of the spending of funds. And already this very suspicion, therefore in the way of using funds for any public service, was this service provided by HRT, was it a health service or an educational service, or any other service which is public, is not good, in fact such doubts should be removed, these doubts simply must not be, therefore, the very suspicion that there was corruption, favoration, illegal actions on HRT, the alarm bell, and we actually need to talk about it, and it must actually change that. It is also important to say that HRT, as the report says, does not have a publicly published accounting policy, and I think that this is one stumbling block throughout this financial story around HRT, because as it stands in the phonogram from the council session, HRT applies international accounting standards and decisions of the directorship of HRT according to which it is not the opposite of the law to change accounting policies over one year. So much for how someone told accounting gymnastics, so politics changed during the fiscal year, but that's not the opposite of the law. I believe that this should be changed, so I believe that the accounting policy of the HRT should be published and then acted in accordance with it, and how much I have read and stood as the directorship's intention. So from all the debates that have been heard so far, it is clear that we are dissatisfied with the way HRT works, but that our dissatisfaction must in no way be linked to some subjection to the interests of commercial media that are very sharp and very powerfully agitating for the abolition of marketing on HRT and in this way seek and advocate the devasting of HRT as public television. Of course, we must not agree to that in this Croatian Assembly. Among other things, because HRT has a significant importance in the development of domestic creative industries, the audiovisual sector, since HRT is the only one with a national concession to achieve a legal provision, this means that it pays a certain amount to the Croatian audiovisual centre for the promotion of the audiovisual, the development of the audiovisual sector in Croatia, and none of which therefore the other publisher with a national concession does, and that is also of course something that could be discussed in the long and long term. I would also warn that the HRT Council expressed concern about maintaining quality 3 at its meeting on 15 September. The HR program we were talking about today. So, the situation on HR may be better than the state on HTV, but in any case it could be even better. Namely, there they are, on three. The programme, due to recession and general savings to individual external co-workers and authors who are a kind of brand of the programme, cancelled contracts and in that sense advised the HRT Council on the need for caution and care for the programme. The HRT Council also recommended that the HR and HTV programme management be published on HRT websites, thereby presenting to the general public, thereby removing a number of requests received by the Council for orientation and for lack of information. In the end, I would like to warn and actually inform about the dissatisfaction of producers and authors, so members of the Croatian audiovisual industry who warn of the need to suspend the blocking of the HRT programme as they say to a paralyzed network of personal interests and incompetence. They also warn of the need to suspend the blockage of the development of cinematography stopped by law enforcement and disregarding the role of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, and have also warned that public television programmes since 2007 show a systematic lack of implementation... played, documentary and children...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56823	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56824	And in that sense, of course, I appeal to the fact that the tax is not reduced and that there is still a sufficient amount to be allocated precisely for these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56825	Thank you. It is next to representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56826	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Programme Council, acting Director of HTV, Ministry representative, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the Law on HR and HTV Programmes in the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 as well as the Report of the Agency of the Agency for Business for 2008 which the HRT Programme Council addressed to the Assembly for discussion and adoption, with observations submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, did not accept the parent parliamentary Committee on Information, Information and Media as well as any other committee of Parliament which examined them as interested bodies. Here, today we're in this debate at a plenary session that no club of MPs has accepted, so I can't, and I won't accept them either. I won't accept them for the following reasons: the first and the fundamental thing is, here in the debate it was heard that very late comes this report at the plenary session. To the full truth, it must be known and said that thanks to the role of the president of the National Working Body of the Assembly, which is the Committee on Information, which has not been convened for more than 2 months, we could not even meet the precondition set out in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, which is to be included in the agenda only when the opinion of the working body, i.e. the Assembly Committee on Information, Information and Media. It's about the truth. The second thing, last time 2 years ago, or 5 December 2008, this House discussed and adopted the report on the work of the Programme Council for the period from 3 September 2007 to 14 October 2008 and business for 2007. So, December 5, 2008. In the debate two years ago, or a year and a half ago, I said, and then that was the opinion expressed in the government's view that it is necessary and that, to be said, it must be harmonised for the periods for which the reports are submitted. What we now have covered in the 2008 Programme Council Work Report, all of 2009, almost all of February 2010, so 2 months 2010 doesn't lead to anything. I respect what the President of the Programme Council has proposed, I even support, that this year, or by the end of this year, we adopt the 2009 Report financially so that we can adopt and consider the 2010 Programme Council Report together from next year, and clearly the Financial Directorate on Business for 2010 because I do not think all of this remains acceptable. And as far as I can see, this is the fifth report that the Programme Council and the directorship of HRT have submitted to this Croatian Parliament, and let the Law on HRT be changed by then, but please change these habits because in the business world these habits are much faster eradicated or changed than what we tolerate every year to discuss something that is no longer relevant to each other, and then we talk about the current, current situation than the one that was a year, two or more. Now that we're talking about it, I'll read you what I said in 2008. He says: "Therefore, this observed period in the report speaks of a period of rich events marked by the lack of the right to transfer the 2009 World Handball Championship, which is hosted by Croatia and the resignation of HTV director for which members of the Programme Council have learned from newspapers. In the observed period, there was a selection of a new director of the HR programme, editor-in-chief of the radio information programme, director of HTV programme, editor-in-chief of the information programme, statements and steps in public of a number of editors and journalists against their home.", finished quote. I won't say anything. And the same thing, just a little bit modified, I could say in the 2009 report, and no one would notice anything. So, it wasn't the situation on HRT that night, it's not this year, it's not because the president of the Assembly Committee on Information, Information and Media doesn't want to respect the provisions of the existing Law on HRT that say what happens when no consensus is reached on the proposal of a member of the Programme Council, and then the blocked election of the 11th. I will repeat what the media have called me for, not 10 members of the Programme Council, something that requires a delay in work, and neither in this election which you have three times or failed to get or select the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television, but is the fact that the existing Law and apparently some other circumstances affect this situation not only in the Programme Council but in general on Croatian Radio Television. Speaking of the report, I will agree with some predecessors who have said that it is more methodologically better than previous years, for those who have had observations that the achievement of certain programming principles in the work of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television is more of a place than it should be, or not balanced, we must recognise that certain Parliamentary committees insist that particular attention be paid to gender equality, representation of national minorities and I respect it, but I advise the programming council to make sure that they themselves keep these areas balanced, balanced to get a full picture, not to really jump one or two of the other areas that we remain interested in. Program for persons with disabilities, Croatian defenders dedicated time and others not to list anything further than the obligations of the Programme Council. If you allow me for a difficult position or what the Programme Council in its Report says in several places that it is not satisfied and I have already said that, but the new people are here, the new president of the Programme Council, is the new acting official, so I will say that the public may not be satisfied, but we are not satisfied with your dissatisfaction here in the Assembly either. Because there is a legitimate question that you have taken on the legal powers conferred on the Council by the Law on HRT. If the Law is not sufficient and clearly is not, if it does not give sufficient width and authority to the Programme Council not only in the implementation of the programme principles but also in monitoring financial supervision and financial control over the operations of Croatian Radio Television, then I will dare say that there is a certain issue of professionality and accountability not only for employees but for public television executives. Because from the report who read it in detail is aware of the legal provisions of the mandate given to the programme council to warn the director-in-chief of Croatian broadcasting about certain failures. We have seen that the Programme Council does that, if there is no other answer, there is no adequate answer on the other side, then what happened to us on Croatian television happens to us. And this report and all of our discussions seem to be in favour of the emergency in two readings of the change of the Law on Croatian Radio Television which must enable the Programme Council to be the Programme Council and deal with its part of the work, so that the HRT administration assumes responsibility for the management of Croatian Radio Television and the Supervisory Board to control financial operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56827	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so here is colleague Bilić Vardic, you pointed out the obstacle and the reason why we are only now discussing this 2008 report in July. I mentioned it yesterday in my debate on the framework of the HRT Act and I must repeat that I really agree with you, and I find it inadmissible that colleagues who are Committee Presidents, here is a concrete word about the President of the Committee on Media of the Croatian Parliament for some personal or political reasons, are not calling meetings of the Committee and there is a situation happening today that we have failed to discuss this report from 3 months to 7 months and then, as rescuers, come to this pay phone and try to warn "good on purpose" that the situation on HRT is not good and that they would be the carers that would solve it. So, I repeat what I said yesterday that the issue of HRT should not be a question of political prestige, rivalry, fighting between political rivals, that we should really put our heads on the pile here and offer the best solutions and help those healthy forces on HRT and I personally think that there are them, to swim up and to make the restructuring of HRT the way Croatian Parliament and Croatia expect the public to really be a public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56829	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56830	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. I fully agree with your position and I think that your debate and your exposure, as well as a few colleagues here, so I dare say mine went in this direction and prove that why the opposition accuses us of putting pressure on HRT that we are against HRT, are just witnessing the opposite. Those who would repair the situation on the HRT organised that members of the Programme Council from the ranks they appointed, so from the quota appointed by the opposition or minority in this Assembly, to resign in order not to remove, or meet the legal requirements that without quorum, without six members of the Programme Council, further work of the Programme Council is not possible. With this message, they probably read Slumnig's book "Better Half of Courage" which ends with the quote "Smart Ream, Better Half of Courage." But this is not about the smart one here because instead of taking advantage of their knowledge, expertise and experience here today, and helping overcome this situation on HRT, these people are still calling on the defender of the Croatian Ombudsman from Vukovar to resign and leave. There are no colleagues of BEUS but you should apologize to Mr. Milas or the president of the HRT Programme Council for allowing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56831	NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, NO, Let's move on with the individual debate, it's time for the distinguished representative, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56832	Dear Vice President, HRT representatives. My colleagues and colleagues. I will limit my debate only to the Annual Report of the Directorate on the financial operations of HRT in 2008. The Board of Directors produced the 2008 HRT Business Report in May 2009, and the Croatian Council considered it only on 23 November 2009, so six months after it was made, and almost 8 months later this report was to be found before the Croatian Parliament. What am I saying? I would like to say and agree with my predecessor, Mrs Bilić Vardić, that it is indeed declared that we are discussing a business related to 2008 and such an important public institution as the Croatian Radio Television in mid-2010. This is even more unacceptable if it is given that the HRT Programme Council in its report, which is incomparably more current because it was drawn up for the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010, talks about 2009 and says that in 2009, I will quote: "HRT was in a serious financial situation that was not only a result of recession". So, the Programme Council is talking about the situation in 2009, and we are going back a year in today's debate, so back to 2008. The quoted findings of the Programme Council are not only interesting because of this time context but also because of the content. In contrast to the Croatian government, national television acknowledges that its serious financial situation is not only due to recession but also its internal weaknesses. And now a few words about what the financial situation at HRT was in 2008. The revenues made by around a billion and a half are 4% higher than in 2007 thanks to the fact that the revenues from the tax which account for almost 70% of the total revenues have increased by 5.5%. I remind you that in 2008, we paid a fee of 73 kuna. In contrast to these, the revenues from the further 22% of total revenues decreased by 5.3% compared to 2007 and decreased by 98 million kuna or more than 22% compared to the planned revenues of 2008. When it comes to this drastic reduction in the expected revenues from the promotion, then it should certainly be stressed that it is in 2008. HRT was extremely generous in approving the wide variety of discounts on promotional products and services, in which it was not only unfair competition with commercial televisions but lost as much as 92 million kunas, so almost as little I mentioned, as reduced promotional revenues were compared to the planned amount. We'd say who under the other pit digs himself falls into it. In addition, it should be said that the procedure for granting these discounts was extremely non-transparent and it is really unacceptable for one public television. After the settlement of expenditure business 2008 Croatian TV concluded with profits of 4.1 million kuna. However, it is interesting that as much as 4 million kuna taxes have been paid to that amount, so that after tax it is truly symbolic, it amounts to only 134,000 kunas, i.e. only 1/10 gains made in the previous year. Here, it should be stressed that the financial result would be even where and where worse if it hadn't been corrected by changes in accounting policies. Accounting policies are also a very grateful instrument for assembling the financial result. I'll be a little more specific. In an effort to show a more favourable financial result, i.e. to mask this poor business in 2008 fully abolished reservations for future risks. So, for potential damages from court disputes, which is actually very irresponsible because the positive effect is short-lived, and long-term effects are very negative because business makes both unstable and risky. In 2008, it was also marked with 242 million kunas of unpaid debt, with only a small part of that debt referring to the subscription, and most of the waste precisely mentioned unpaid marketing services. So, as I had already said in advance, one of the reasons for the great rejection of revenues from marketing activities was the granting of discounts, and another reason is that when the contracts were made, there was no contracting, or no payment insurance. This actually means that HRT is very difficult or in no way charging its claims, and it clearly has very unpleasant and unfavourable repercussions to the final financial result. In fact, in 2008, HRT paid as much as 4 million kunas of profit taxes, i.e. the tax practically ate the total profit. Of course, the question is, why is such a big tax being paid? In the light of the tax application submitted to the tax administration, and we have it presented in this report, it is evident that both the high costs of the representation and the high costs of the transport which are clearly taxed. However, the basic reason for this was just written off claims amounting to more than 9 million kuna. So, what she couldn't charge because she didn't even take care of the insurance and payment, HRT even paid the tax. So when she couldn't secure her assets and incomes in good lord's manner, she was punished by paying taxes to the state. I will literally say, HRT paid a tax on loss, which speaks of a truly irresponsible availability of Croatian citizens' money. Such behavior can only be afforded by someone who has not worked too hard to earn money but literally gets it on a tray. That something fat is wrong with the HRT management system, they have learned themselves from members of the Programme Council after comparing the results of HRT's business with the results of commercial TV, and they have found that commercial televisions with 600 people can generate revenue of 500 million kuna, while HRT with a billion kunas of more income and 6 times more workers operate at the limit of profitability or even in the loss zone, if we ignore accounting acrobatics in drawing up a financial report or annual accounting. In the HRT system in 2008, an average of 3650 workers were employed, with a large number of people really not aware of what they are doing, but they are getting big salaries, and new people are still being hired. So in 2008, 45 of them were employed with an indication that the largest number of workers, so 36 of them were employed in the entertainment programme. So thanks to public television in our country when the bread is running out slowly, at least the games won't miss it. One word and I'll conclude. You do not know who drinks on Croatian TV, but it is well known that all of these are paid by Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56833	Thank you. And as the last respected representative, Krunoslav Markovanovic, in an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56834	Here, Mr. Vice President, here's Mr. V.D. Director, President of the Programme Council, here is a representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, since I'm the last one, I can do it a little slower, right? We've talked a little bit about the Programme Council today and I've heard from this side that here for seven years, the Programme Council is in the hands of HDZ and so on. It should not be forgotten, and it should be reminded that it is 2003. The Programme Council first installed and very carefully, very, very carefully so that long and happy is in a good relationship with the then coalition government. However, it all goes a little bit. She came in 2003. The government has changed. The programme council of some people earlier, some later expired and what happened was not for the authors of a colleague, Vujic, and some other likely authors of the Law on Croatian Radio Television, what they did not assume would happen. So, it won't go all the way around, but each of the members of the Programme Council clearly expressed his opinion very loudly. If the Programme Council is chosen from different, from different groups of people so that everyone can express their opinion. But here it was expected that yet the most important things would be here on some common line to say so, that they would realize that they should actually act together in the interests of all of us. That obviously wasn't so, because here's a few days ago as far as I can see from the protest one, two, three resignations for not knowing what reasons if not for political reasons clearly in agreement with those who supported those members of the Programme Council. In fact, the fact is that 11 members of that we've already heard today I don't think it would have saved too much, because it seems to me that all candidates so far that no one has received more than six votes I think of the required eight. So, of 10 people and this 11 might be 7 but it wouldn't be 8 votes, but let's let it go if it were. Namely, here's the V.D. A director who, unfortunately, appears to be my missing fanatical colleague and colleague took this job very seriously. And that's where the problem came from. And now how to get to the new principal? Simple. If you have the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media Nenad Stazic, then you will do so to call on the former director who will explain to the new director that he has done better than he has, that is to say that everything the new director says is not true but is exactly what he did. So, precedent at the Croatian Parliament. So we should call the former public defender, right, because his term is up, so now the new one can't represent what he's been doing. We've got to call everyone in order of the ex, especially if we're a year late, two with reports like this. So, an incomprehensible attack, an incomprehensible attack on the Programme Council with very ugly words that are not examples of the Croatian Assembly just because here are the people from the option of fellow Stazic simply resigning, and now those who are left behind are guilty of everything. So what would they be guilty of? The program board is so imagined that it doesn't get too involved in finance, because finance was supposed to be controlled by someone else, that what it says is that we'll welcome applause if it's in line with our opinion, but if it's not, then it's all his fault. Let's think of some writing on the Programme Council, blackmail, various blackmails. It's one member now not coming out of this because of this, the other because of that. They're all offended, hurt. Well, gentlemen, if we're offended and injured, we resign. If we can't democracy most hands still mean an extremely large amount, at least since democracy. Otherwise, we like the opposition as much as when you want to take a toy. And they're openly accusing us of taking their toy. Well, I don't want to take a toy, but we'd like it to be a toy for viewers who pay for Croatian radio. I need to make a difference here right now. Obviously, we all agree that the radio program is extremely good, that we are happy to listen to it, that there are a lot of good shows. But there are exceptional shows on TV. Well, look! Let's think of the documentaries great, let's remember the show "The Ark." I don't think at the European level I know who can do it this well. Let's think of extraordinary music shows, music programs. So that's what it's got. What are we unhappy with? With an information program. Why? Because it became cheerleading to the extent that simply the viewers stopped switching from one journal to the Croatian Radio Television Log, because they said the other was more objective. I suggest that Mr. New Director speak with Professor Dr. Victoria Car. I was at one of her presentations, a lecture. Extraordinary analysis of three televisions, so Croatian broadcasting, Nova and RTL. The comparisons of the information program, who, how much, gives what news and so on. They would be surprised, but unfortunately Croatia's radio television is not the first when all of this, all of this looks and here should be well done on the information program. Why? Well, because people don't like being sneered at, that someone's giving them their opinion when they need it the least, someone's commenting, and they're actually reading the news. Let's let the commentators go. We had our own time commentators, but there was a comment about that and that. Here are the commentators most often professors from the university that we know are really more left than left over there and their comments are clearly against everything. But good, that's it. There's that in toys, right? So HDZ really wasn't trying to get to the crisis, that 11-member I don't think he'd do anything about it. But the opportunity was all over the media, so in all the media that the president on behalf of all of us, most of us in the council for, or in the Committee on Information, Information and Media, is simply heard by him. We weren't even important there that we had a different opinion, so it just sounded like someone wanted to, someone like this, someone like that, or something like that. It'd be a little bit of maybe two about marketing. We talk a lot about marketing. I remember on the council three years ago, it seemed to me, two, three years ago, on the board two, three years ago, it resented itself very loudly again from the same lines why Croatian broadcasting did not collect more money from marketing, and now suddenly, it is suddenly too much. Unbelievable. The balance here clearly needs to be made. Why did the prices go down? No wonder. So if you want to attract any advertisers at all, then you have to lower the price because it's time to get harder and harder to separate from the money. But it should be kept in mind that commercial televisions from this living and there should be made one happy balance, but we would be very happy to know how many minutes it takes for Croatia to make other TVs, and then it may be easier to make a decision about something. So because of the situation above all the information program, because of the finances that I've been repeating in 2008, because of the financial gymnastics that she's shown here completely wrong, a couple for us laika, which we're more looking at plus, minus, she's shown almost plus, and actually the minus was pretty good, because of all those non-payments, because of all the settings, the purchases of programs from which the owners of the company's external program were inside, because of the unresolved situation, because of all those phantoms that walk on television, we're not going to accept this council, not because of you who are here, who gave you've given this report, but because of this situation. And I hope that this situation will be overcome, but we really need to work really fast and adopt a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56835	Thank you. Representatives? Yeah. First of all, he will speak to the esteemed Zvonko Milas, president of the HRT Programme Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56836	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President. Here's a very short look at everything that's been said so far. I could agree with the good part of Mrs. Petir's exposure and Mrs.... , but not to remove the criticism of the report or the work of the council, I think that in public very often overestimated or perhaps even sufficiently unknown role of the members of the programme council, so a false perception of the powers that we have is created. [[You don't understand.]] So we are really just one correction and by law we are explicitly forbidden to talk about the program until it is broadcast. I fully agree with what you have stated as an example for the pastoral message of the Holy Father, and there is a council that has responded spotlessly to the session that followed after Easter, but we cannot put all these parts in the report, but I am totally in agreement that it is really inappropriate to talk about and talk about such things at this time that I would not even mention in this House. Furthermore, I would refer to, unfortunately he is not here, to Mr Vujic's presentation, which said he could not vote in favour of the directorship's report, or the programme council, because they are in collegiate. Well, of course they're in college when this report is talking about a month, or a little bit more about 2008, and we're talking about a report from the programming council, and the report from the directorship is exclusively for 2008, so it's not possible for these reports to be, I was also talking about it so that the reports should be arranged to be whole, to be complemented by each other, so they're talking about the same time periods. As for Mr. Beus, I don't think he's here anymore. First, it is not true that this is the first report, unfortunately not accepted in this House, three reports so far have not been accepted, only one and it is accepted for the simple misery, so this report that has been re-accepted, so it's of five four de facto not, so much for the knowledge of Mr Beus and all that's been happening over the past few years about this. And as for my resignation, so we didn't collectively come to the program council, nor do I think of any collective resignations. It would be the easiest thing for me to leave, get away from this whole thing, because believe me, I really don't have any use for it, except for that, it's my choice, but it doesn't come to mind. We can still function as a council under the law, we have a quorum. It is true that some decisions cannot be made, they are important and crucial, but that is why you will make sure that you help us to complete this council or whatever it will be, depending on the new law that needs to come into force. So I think we should collectively react 20 years ago, and then it was time for some collective reaction. Mr. Lesar has asked a few questions, which I really don't have an answer and I don't know, but here I have to notice that since, if I understand that it was even Mr. Galic that it was addressed to me, that it wasn't clear to me so 10 years ago, which is why until today, nothing has been done, even at a time when there was one most, today is another, it seems to me, let me, if I am too bold and arrogant, it seems that no one is interested. But I think Mr. Popovec may be able to say more about it. At Mrs. Jelesh's exposure, if I remember her name correctly. ... Excuse me, Nadica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So her presentation has shown exactly what the reasons I think so far, which have conditioned the departure of the entire directorship, so one move that I think has been made so far has been the most radical change since Croatian broadcasting, in terms of but really believe good intentions, in terms of improving the overall work of Croatian broadcasting. And I personally think and stand behind this council, although it is temporary, that is, this leadership, although it is temporary that it really works better and really honest with its work. I'd like to thank you so much, thank you all once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56837	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56838	Allegedly I said 10 years ago I was asking the same questions to Galic. Galic did not leave 10 years ago but 4 years ago, since 2006, the same questions, never answered, and in 2006 this same majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56839	Thank you. And now the esteemed representative Joseph Popovac. Excuse me. Director of HRT. They'd feel more comfortable as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56840	Dear fellow MPs, I'm sorry, MPs and MPs. Listen to this debate you're having, I actually realized that the biggest accident we're talking about right now is 2008. The Council is talking about 2009 and even in part 2010 and I must admit that I sign every word in the debate of distinguished MPs, you will help me, Mrs Nada Jelusic. So I'd just supplement in that part. It is true that the changes in accounting policies in this 2008 report have resulted in a positive result because after the 5... final account for 2008 there was a loss of about 60 million kuna. At that time, changes in accounting policies, write-offs and changes in value-coordination times have resulted in certain marginal profits. Nothing is new in business that does not happen in 2009 when it is known that a certain loss is covered in this way, but at the same time, you have in this report and therefore, I think it is part of the answer that was being addressed, so in 2009, marketing is planned for 200 million kunas more, and it is shown in the report that marketing has fallen by 20% compared to the planned size for 2008. Which will lead to major problems in 2009, up to 2 rebalances and eventually around 105 million kuna losses. We're like V.D. Directorship 8.12 this year and found. We've also found a negative cash flow of 175 million kuna, and that's an even more dangerous problem. So we've been brought into the area of heavy liquidity that in the first month we've had our first payout problems and we've managed to extend the short-term loan, or the credit minus, to pay that salary. So I can only say what we have managed to do in these six months in the consolidation of business. It's just that there's been a control of the absolutely collection of claims. You've given an absolute good impression that no insurance instruments have been used. It's no longer possible today. So our price list and the general conditions of business became a sacred letter. Marketing HRT is 20% more expensive than our cheapest competitive company, or private television. We're 20% more expensive right now, and without debtors or bonds, we're not going into the realisation of the contract. So, the payment instrument exists, the question is, what was the policy of billing the claim itself? Except for the fact that there were no instruments, we found one, say, 7.8 million out of date, unpaid claims, and the unsuspected. Furthermore, we have found one situation and by solving our obligations to the state with an arbitrary interpretation and law and not only the VAT of the disputed one which I now believe should not be charged with us, HRT, but let's say this for INO invoices and some of the things that were happening was absolutely or not willful or intricacy. So we've been able to run into each other. I think the situation is now stable on television, but it will remain stable only if it remains stable in funding. So, what HRT as a system can't handle, and it can't handle the reduction of the subscription, restructuring certainly and it will happen, and it has to happen, but in the current size of financing the loss of 300 million kuna there is no management that will succeed and I don't know with what layoff of extra employees or anything, which will manage to survive HRT as a public service and to satisfy its legal function. On the other hand, there have been no significant investments in technology for years. Therefore, what we will also present to the Croatian government, I hope also to the Parliament, but also to the Croatian public, and this is one model of the reconstruction of HRT, which will be painful though, it will be difficult, but it will certainly be feasible. And in order to be realistic we must have the first stable sources of funding which is clearly differential and tax as one model and marketing as another model and our financial income as a third model. So much for this part of business that we now have, and now you would answer these four questions of Mr. Lesar's distinguished representative. Just a minute to go in a row. So is it true that the technique is hired by outside companies and that we have it on the lager? It's not happening anymore. I'm sure since 01.01, there's been a united public procurement. That such cases in the past were likely to, some of us, not related to technique and sanctioned, and I urge you to make any case if you have me and my colleagues personally, and trust me, they will be sanctioned. In addition, the Police Administration of Zagreb or the State Attorney's Office. As for the price of these rentals, again I say we are now in a public procurement system. What we've done, I don't know if it's anyone else from the public companies that started, we now have a system of evaluation of public procurement, and that's exactly not happening. Because you know some services can only be provided by 2, 3 bidders in Croatia. So it wouldn't happen by chance if we had a cartel that everybody's reporting to with no idea what kind of ridiculous prices, and then later on, it can be bought 30, 40 percent cheaper on the market. We are now also implementing this evaluation system so that it has come to an end as well. Well, we already have very good results in this year at the tender that 20, 30% of the bids are lower than they are now. As for the price of external productions, the prices of external productions I must say here were indeed our biggest. Because we were the only ones who ordered them, you understand? In the open market in Croatia only HRT did so. Now we have associations of producers, directors' associations just honoring that we need to redefine these prices because we're too cheap. You've got a little bit of trouble and a lot of protests in the tender for the documentary program, and there's a price of 1000 kuna per minute that's got a problem. The moment we said that we wanted significantly cheaper content, a significantly cheaper telenovela, and everything else became a problem because the price of audiovisual content is on the market, but there's something beneath which you can't. At this time, I claim that in Croatia, and I must admit that in the purchase of the programme from abroad, we have achieved the lowest prices so far. As for our EPP of our marketing, I say I can only speak for this time for which I am at the head of the house. If you have any knowledge, I know that there were some contracts where one dumping was in one way, it wasn't, I don't know how much money, I know about two contracts right now, their total value was 20 million kuna, with them not being realised at all. I'm saying I'm allowing the possibility that it was, at this point we're 20% more expensive than everyone else on the market. One more question I owe you. So, Mr. Vujic said one wonderful thing, the esteemed representative, why isn't HRT a bad television? Hrt is not a sick system, HRT is a very healthy system with very creative quality people and there are 3460 employees there now. It varies daily because we're a big system. You see maybe one part is extra, there's a certain part of external cooperation but the authorial external cooperation must remain. But just because we're very good software now I'm talking, business will get better but it takes a lot more time for the program to tear it down but also to fix it. The HRT is doing a lot of good quality and creative people, but exactly, as he said, I think that's what Honorable agent Beus said that we in the region are the strongest television, I'm proud of it, but it's certainly because we have the best human potential and the best part of that program frame but also that technical frame without which television doesn't have. You know, creativity is a lot easier to monitor if you have this subport, these people doing all these transmissions, these people doing all these content and what we're best at, in this part of technical, in technical performances, and there's really no match for us in the region. I thank you for all the suggestions we've had, as far as V.D. is concerned. The directorships will continue what we are clear and to the council, and in the end we have committed ourselves to the Croatian government, so we will go to 1. 10. substantiate the restructuring plan in total, it will be radical, it will be at the level of that, but to create the medium of the 21st century because the new Law gives us opportunities and requires the opening of three new channels. It combines a full picture in the media space, therefore, and especially in television, so when that marketing, the cookie from marketing is certainly smaller, I say what only we can, we can represent and we will present the price that this public service costs. Soon enough. Thank you very much for your attention, I welcome you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56841	Thank you. I can only say with this kind of television hard, but without good public television much harder, surely you should do everything to make what has been invested in digitalising television that people get a quality picture as well and get quality and objective content. We'll insist on it and you'll have to do it. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met, even though everyone said they were against it. This concludes today's session and tomorrow 14th. At 9:30, we start with point 15. Final draft law on state support for agriculture and rural development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 588. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56842	We move to the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in the HR, HTV programmes during the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010. – Report by the HRT Directorate on HRT's 2008 business. Carrier of the HRT Programme Council. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: The report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the law on HRT and HTV programmes in the period from 3 September 2007 to 14 October 2008 – the report by the HRT Directorate on the operation of HRT for 2007. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for a conclusion was accepted by most votes: 121 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against. The Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities have proposed to the Assembly the adoption of an identical conclusion, which reads: The HRT Programme Council is in charge of in accordance with Article 19. The Law on HRT by 30 June at the latest, which was already past in 2010 delivered to the Croatian Assembly a new report on its work and... the programme principles and obligations set out in the Law on the HRT programme, HTV as well as the report of the Directorate, the operation of HRT in 2009. [[You don't understand.]] Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56843	Since this whole procedure is late for known technical reasons, then June 30th has already passed and we propose, I mean joint 30.9th, September 30th.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-13-0.u56844	September. So the conclusion proposed remains the same, except as it says here on 30 June 2010, should be written by 30 September 2010. Please, let's get involved and vote on such a modified proposal. Let's vote. The result? This proposal by the Committee on Human Rights and Gender Equality was accepted by the majority of votes, 109 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 2 against. In the text as modified by Mr Furi Radin's explanation. The Committee on Gender Equality, he proposed to the Assembly another conclusion, which reads: the HRT Programme Council is in charge that the report, which will be submitted in accordance with the just-accepted conclusion now, in particular the report on the achievement of the obligations of the Croatian Gender Equality Act, and national policies to promote gender equality in 2006-2010. In view of the unfulfilled obligations of the Council set out in the conclusions of the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament, the observations and proposals were also made at the meeting of the Committee and of the Croatian Parliament, and in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the discussed report by the Croatian Council for the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 and in the report by the HRT Directorate on HRT's operations for 2008. Please include and vote on the proposal for this conclusion of the Committee on Gender Equality. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by the majority of 114 votes in favour, one abstention and nothing against. We also have a proposal from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. He proposed to the Assembly another conclusion, which reads: it is up to the HRT Programme Council to submit in accordance with the agreed conclusion of the two committees, in particular the report on the achievement of the obligations of the HRT arising from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages, and from the documents set out by the Croatian Congress of 14th session, as well as the comments and proposals made at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament's Committee (Children, Persons with Disabilities and Others), taking into account the unexecuted obligations of the Council for the period from 14 October 2008 to 24 February 2010 and on the report of the HRT's management for the 2008th year. Let us please include and vote on this proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The result? This proposal was adopted unanimously by 109 votes.
