ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u61997	Good morning! We begin with today's meeting with the 10th point we announced last night, which is - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2009. The applicant is the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. The Croatian Academy submitted this report on the basis of Article 7. Law on Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable academician Slavko Cvetnić, secretary general of the HAZU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u61998	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Let me remind you of the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2009 in the shortest lines, since you have previously received a summary of the 113st book of the Croatian Academy's summer paper, which detailed the entire work of the Academy in 2009. On 31 December 2009, the Academy had 144 regular members, 132 correspondence members and 90 co-workers, i.e. a total of 366 members. The number of members was reduced by 15 members compared to the situation in the previous year. During 2009, the academy held two regular congregations and a formal session. Also, the Academy Library of the Academy was officially opened on the day of the Academy. Reports on the entire work of the Academy and the final account of the Academy for 2008 were received in April, and were set up in the 112st book of the Year, and the Institute for Scientific and Art Works of the Croatian Academy in Požega was established. The December regular assembly adopted plans and work programme of the Croatian Academy, the 2010 Financial Plan of the Academy and the 2009 update report of the Croatian Academy's financial plan. The ceremony session of the Croatian Academy was held on 29 April 2009 on Academy Day. The Academy awards for the highest scientific and artistic achievements were awarded to the Republic of Croatia for 2008. In addition to the mentioned assemblies and solemn sessions, a dozen annual assemblies of the Academy of Scientific Councils were held, and the Croatian Academy organized 42 scientific gatherings, symposiums, round tables, 29 public lectures of prominent foreign and domestic scientists and artists during 2009, 34 presentations of books and conferences for journalists, 30 exhibitions and 4 memorials of the deceased members. The Academy presidency held nine regular sessions last year. At the meetings, members of the presidency debated, reached conclusions from their jurisdiction. Particular attention was paid to preparations for the assembly and to the ceremony on the occasion of the day of the Croatian Academy. The Bureau held meetings with appropriate decisions on the 150 years of foundation of the Croatian Academy, which will be held in 2011 under the high auspices of the Croatian Parliament. The 2009 Financial Plan of the Academy is familiar with the Presidency's report on the debate of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which points to a much smaller trend in the budget for the work of the Croatian Academy than is the case with the increase of budget resources provided in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Culture. About the results of the financial operations of the Croatian Academy and the Academy Foundation in 2008 and the final account for that year. Then on preparations for holding a round table in the Croatian Academy of Energy Security and South-Eastern Europe, which will be attended by the delegations of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the assembly. Then on information that the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts through photography will be held in Sarajevo in June 2009. Furthermore, the following was discussed, on the establishment of bilateral co-operation with the Academy of Science of Romania and Moldova, on the visit of representatives of the Ministry of Culture of Vojvodina Croats from Subotica to our academy on the occasion of discussing the formation of doctoral studies for Croatians in Vojvodina. About the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament who very positively assessed the work of the Academy in 2008 and who believes that the Croatian Academy meets the needs of time and reasons for which it was founded. The Croatian Parliament accepted the report almost unanimously, given that only one vote was abstention. Unfortunately, a law has recently been passed that reduces regular members of the Croatian Academy's pension by 10%, not only in relation to the pension allowance but also to the total amount of pension, i.e. and that part which has been established according to general terms and conditions. Such a solution is an exception to other users of preferential pensions, it is unprincipled and therefore the academy proposes to amend the law in a way that a 10% reduction applies only to the amount of pension allowance. Then on a meeting of representatives of culture of all 27 embassies of the Member States of the European Union accredited to Zagreb, organised by the Embassy of the Kingdom of Sweden, was held at our academy. Then on the recommendation of the Croatian Parliament and its Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposed to the Croatian Academy to launch a procedure for the establishment of a class for theatre and film art. In principle, the presidency supported the Croatian Parliament's initiative to establish a new class. It also believes that without this initiative, the need to establish new classes should be taken into account when the need arises for all scientific and artistic disciplines to be represented in the academy. However, taking into account the large amount of opinions received and the positions of the academic classes, and respecting the limitations of the number and current criteria for the selection of academic members, the Bureau considers that there is no possibility now of establishing a new class for theatre and film art. At the same time, the Bureau recalls the fact that the creators in the field of theatre and film art and so far could be elected as new academic members in the existing classes, and will make it necessary for potential candidates in the field of theatre and film art, as well as for the next election procedure for the new members of the Croatian Academy to provide the same choice options for the relevant academic classes. The Bureau also discussed a visit by representatives of the Belgian Royal Academy, the Flemish Academy of Science and Arts to our academy. In addition, the Bureau set out a proposal for the financial plan of the Croatian Academy for 2010. The Croatian Academy's work plans for 2010 were also discussed on the marking of important anniversarys, as well as on the state budget for 2009 of the Croatian Academy Foundation 2 million kunas were provided less than in previous years. Nevertheless, at the end of the year, the foundation's assets amounted to 4m 802838 euros were increased. Following the public tender, the Management Board of the Foundation decided to allocate the funds of one million and 200000 kuna to a total of 97 projects proposed by organisations and individuals. In addition, funds from the Dragutin Tadic Academy Fund were allocated. Other forms of international co-operation need to highlight bilateral co-operation with nearly 30 national academys from 24 countries, academias with which the Croatian Academy has signed agreements. Printan is the fourth volume of the edition "Croatia and Europe from Revival to Modern". A few days ago, he was presented to the public. In 2009, reconstruction of the dry wall and old olive grove was continued in the middle Arboretum area in Trieste. Work has been intensified on the rehabilitation of old olives and the introduction of fruits of selected indigenous varieties of the Dubrovnik coast and islands. The initiative is also under way to transfer some of the land in the central part of Arboretum, owned by the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Academy. The activities of the academy took place in 9th grade, 18th and 15th scientific councils. In the yearbook there are data on the composition of the class, on their overall activity, on all receipts and accepted manuscripts, on the work of all institutions and committees in the class, on lectures and meetings in the organisation of the class or academy, and on the activities of each member within or outside the academy. These data clearly show that members of the academy worked hard for their assignments, so neither did the results. The Academy also takes place in other units such as institutions, centres, laboratories and cabinets. The Academy has 19 such units. In Zagreb there are 8 of them, and the other 11 units are located outside Zagreb and these two units are based in Dubrovnik, and one in Split, Zadar, Rijeka with the area unit in Pula, Varazdin, Bjelovar, Osijek, Vinkovci, Požega and Trsten. Their scientific and publishing activity was appropriate for the release of documents in the Chronicles. The Academy of Scientific Research in 2009 worked on 43 scientific projects. It's about what happened. the parent projects whose research is carried out with a wave in the Academy and whose main researchers are exclusively or regularly members of the Academy or other scientists from the Academy's institutions and institutes. In addition to these projects on the Academy last year, a number of other scientific and artistic tasks have been realized which individual classes and their committees, and in particular scientific councils and museum-galery units have set as the goal of their scientific artistic activities over a long period of time. In scientific research, museum-gallery and professional units of the Academy last year, 231 employees were employed, and 44 scientific recruits confirming the care of the Academy for the Education of Scientific Staff. The museum-gallery activities feature the glycotheque, the cabinet of graphics, the Strossmayer gallery of old masters and the Croatian Museum of Architecture. In 2009 Gliptotheque held 15 exhibitions, 13 promotions and presentations, and a number of other events such as concerts, charity auctions, presentations, etc. All in the exhibition were accompanied by appropriate catalogues. 7 exhibitions were also organised in the graphics cabinet with appropriate catalogues. The cabinet joins the action night of the museum. Strossmayer's gallery of old masters was opened to the public with the permanent layout of the gallery. The museum was included in the "Night of Museums" action and in the international auction "Night of Museums". The Croatian Museum of Architecture held 4 exhibitions during 2009. All exhibitions are accompanied by appropriate catalogues and in public appropriately commented. In the composition of the Academy’s professional services, the archives and libraries work. In their important activities there is a detailed report in the Chronicles. The archive continues the process of computerising the entire activity of the archive. The study and processing of 18th century Glagolitic documents, the collection of Croatics Act, was continued. The library of the academy. Since moving into the new building, the Academy library has gradually introduced new forms of work with users and new equipment such as computer loan, new services, and two workshops have been held in a multimedia classroom. In 2009, systematic digitisation of academic editions was continued with financial support from the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia and the Academy. It is digitized 88089 pages or about 80% of the following series. Diplomatic speaker, old Croatian writers, National Life and Customs Assembly, History of Literature of Croatia, Monument Spectati History Slavorum Meridionalium and Starina. In the Academy there are other forms of scientific work, so last year 15 scientific councils worked within the Academy, and there is also one international committee, then the Committee on People's Life and Customs, and the Croatian Crystalographic Community. In these councils and bodies work not only members of the academy, but also scientists and experts outside the academy and abroad. During 2009, the Academy published a total of 112 publications in its own booklet. From the support of the Academy Foundation in 2009, 30 books were published and two books were published under the auspices of the Academy. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2009 made a total income of 76 million 169 thousand 336 kuna. The total revenue structure is comprised of the state budget with 79%, the ministry's revenues for the achievement of individual projects with 12%, the Academy's own income 6% and the local administration's budget revenue and the 3% donation. The final accounts of the academy show that the total operating costs were higher by 2 million 713 thousand 733 kuna compared to actual revenues. The above-mentioned overrun came solely because the new library was completed in 2009, for which the funds were secured in the previous period, however, as the funds were not spent until the end of 2008, they were then shown as surplus revenues transferred in 2009 and the surplus covered the deficit. Four years ago, a major step was made in efforts to open up the academy to a wide range of media activities and thus to the general public. In this regard, contacts with public messages have been intensified, but we are still not satisfied with the way in which some special print media is being followed by the work of the Croatian Academy. This has been particularly evident lately. Allow me, Mr. Vice President, to express my conviction that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has done its homework in 2009 to promote scientific activities, and artistic creation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u61999	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Miljenko Doric, vice president of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62000	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General of the Croatian Academy, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2009 on 18 June. In the full version of the report in the yearbook, and you have all received it from colleagues and colleagues, the activities of all the organizational forms of HAZU are listed, and the members involved. Data on ongoing research projects, publishing activities, lectures, exhibitions and other forms of activity show that during the past year, members of the HAZU through the organisational forms of the Academy and in other areas of their activities contributed to the marking of HAZU as top Croatian scientific, research and cultural institutions. As regards the work of the Presidency of the Academy, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is mentioned on several occasions, and this committee is recognised as supporting the Academy in some of its efforts. This committee has indeed supported the HAZU in several issues related to the HAZU's request to the state budget. In addition, the report notes that the HAZU presidency approves an analysis of this committee last year, which showed that budgets in favour of HAZU have been increasing since 2002 to date in smaller percentages than funds allocated through the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the Ministry of Culture. It is so much harder to understand why, just last year, HAZU asked the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia to keep the HAZU still a separate budgetary position instead of being installed in the position of one of these ministries or in proportion to both ministries. In the debate, particular attention is paid to some organisational and status issues of the Academy and its membership. The situation was thus considered that the academic bodies did not accept the recommendation of the Croatian Parliament, which we colleagues and colleagues made on July 3rd of last year with 100 votes for and 3 abstentions to establish a class for visual arts, so for theatre and film art, as the 10th grade in the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. On this issue, the Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament draw a separate conclusion, as part of a decision to accept the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts report. Further in the debate, there was an observation that was also pointed out on the occasion of earlier reports, that the vote on new members of the academy did not give rise to debates in the Croatian cultural and other public, since some workers, very prominent in the disciplines in which they were not elected, which is not intended to question the autonomy of the academy in the selection of their members. Finally, when it comes to status issues, the representatives of the report's applicants stressed that the public had the wrong impression that... who, by law and belong to members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, do not give these pensions the property of pensions acquired under special conditions. [[You don't understand.]] HAZU members deserve their pensions according to the general pension regime, their average is between 4 and 5 thousand kuna per person, and a separate pension allowance is and should remain an expression of the state's concern in relation to those of its citizens who, although in the status of regular pensioners, continue to contribute significantly to Croatian science and culture. After the debate was held, the board decided, by a majority vote, to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the following conclusions be made. The first is the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2009. Secondly, the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to establish a class for visual art, so for film and theatre art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62001	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62002	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me take a brief look at this report. The HDZ Club has also given its full support to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and it is understandable that this will be the case today. It is certainly an effort to contribute to further strengthening the role of Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in Croatian society especially on the public social scene because there are many reasons and justifications for this, and the HAZU is a Croatian cultural and scientific institution and its social media isolation in the Croatian media area is not acceptable to anyone. However, the fact is that something like this has been happening in the Croatian media space for the past years and the question is why. In any case, there are reasonable expectations that, in addition to all the good, useful, valuable things that the HAZU does for Croatian society daily, HAZU can and must make a more powerful contribution to the Croatian social reality, present and reality in certain areas that deserve, I would say, special attention. Why not the economy? A knowledge-based economy, a high-tech economy, innovations etc., through its bodies and through the class of not only technical sciences HAZU I would say and must make an additional effort especially because of the fact that a valuable document published by HAZU several years ago, which was the Declaration of Knowledge was an outstanding contribution to the awakening of Croatia's reality and Croatian set in this particular area. It should not have happened that such an important document as the Declaration of Knowledge simply disappeared. A few general facts. On 31 December 2009. The Croatian Academy of Science had 144 regular members, then 132 correspondence members and 90 co-workers. A total of 366 members. I would say it is not small, it is actually a large, huge, intellectual potential which is fortunately felt in many areas of Croatian culture, art, science, spirituality etc. But we really need and can expect more in those areas that are very important for the Croatian future. A knowledge-based society must not be merely a floscule. Indeed, something serious must begin to make such a society fully operational in the interest of Croatian citizens, in the interest of the Croatian economy, better and better quality of life. Both in this respect and especially in this area and in these tasks, the HAZU deserves far stronger visibility on the public media social scene. That's not happening. It is understandable that some have no interest in this, but how to accept the fact that public television does not only contribute to the wider social reputation of HAZU but rather to much good that Croatian public television was not ready to recognise in the framework of HAZU. The wider social goals and expectations are not able to achieve the Croatian Academy of Science and Art independently without stronger cooperation, and in every democratic society this public scene is very important, it sets priorities, it determines feelings, it determines responsibility and if there is no then what unfortunately we must admit to HAZU is isolated in the media space. It's not good and it's not acceptable. HAZU can and must have an even stronger impact on the promotion of science, innovation, research, development. The very concrete competitiveness of the Croatian economy based on research and development. These are the facts, these are the preconditions that deserve, I would say, a lot more common efforts of all those who understand it, all those who have personal experience in this area, who are aware that a competitive economy is actually created on innovation, research and development well-oriented, but also well-funded. I will take a brief look at the fact that this funding in many institutions and also in HAZU is not at the level that we need. It also does not need to idealize that everything that comes or comes from the HAZU must be best because it is simply not possible. And in this sense, HAZU can and must be the initiator of many good initiatives and projects. In this context, co-operation between the HAZU and other academics is very welcome and useful. As a regular member of the Croatian Academy of Technical Sciences, I would like to say that especially in some areas of cooperation between the HAZU and its classes, the Class of Technical Sciences, the Scientific Council for Energy, the Scientific Council for Oil with the Croatian Academy of Engineering can have many positive effects. Many times speaking here in the Croatian Parliament on this subject I mentioned the Declaration of Knowledge and I will do so today. It was a brilliant, extraordinary document that came quickly, but it disappeared even faster in our system of values that is on the public social scene, unfortunately of some other character. I read, "The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts considers it their duty to ring the alarm.", it was written in your report four years ago. For what? Because of the fact that differences in knowledge and its application become the main factors that divide developed countries from undeveloped ones. The differences in knowledge share the rich from the poor, the differences in knowledge share a high standard of living from low. This was a strong message, which made it very clear that the need to connect knowledge and research and development for the economy was necessary. No echo in the Croatian public. That means it's not only about policy issues, it's not about social issues. Why is that? It's a subject that deserves me to say a little more serious analysis. The report goes on to say, "Only those companies where there really are sufficiently embedded critical mass of knowledge can take place on a globalised world market with their competing products." How many such companies in Croatia? Unfortunately, very little. Exports are the best evidence of the amount of knowledge incorporated into one economy. I think that document was extremely important and I hope that in your work in the next period you will do everything possible to give this declaration of knowledge special attention and due attention and that this document will come to life and gain the full strength it should have in Croatian society given the real, social, economic and many other needs. Furthermore, I certainly repeat and stress the collaboration of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts with other academics is useful. You stressed that the preparation is within the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts of Declarations or a document related to the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. I personally spoke to academic Zelic several times, who runs such a document. Certainly, with no small expectation, this document is expected to appear in the Croatian public. The Scientific Council for Oil, the Scientific Council for Energy and many other classes can contribute to the quality of this document, but the cooperation of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts with the Croatian Academy of Engineering and many other institutions can be of benefit. HAZU can be an initiator, can be a sponsor and can be the bearer of such initiatives. But expect that HAZU can create such demanding, complex, interdisciplinary projects on its own is not realistic. You emphasized in your 2009 report a fact that deserves attention and I will comment briefly. Since I was part of that initiative. In 2009 in the spring of several days before the Croatian entry into full NATO membership here in the Croatian Parliament, NATO's parliamentary delegation of 15 prominent representatives of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, who held a joint round table called Energy Security Southeast Europe in collaboration with the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. The topics that were interesting were directly or indirectly important for Croatia's energy strategy, for Croatian energy security, for the Croatian energy future. There were prominent representatives of Turkey's parliaments and very important and key countries for European energy security, Bulgaria, Italy and Hungary, etc. The successful international round table failed to qualify and meet the high editorial criteria of the best editor of Croatian state television. The question of what criteria does this gentleman respect? What should be done not only by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, but by doing everything in the Croatian society so that serious topics can be qualified in view of such high and sharp criteria of such editors. In the end, allow another brief comment. He's even connected to the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, but you said the same thing in your report. The board of directors of the foundation decided to fund the amount, I read and I don't believe, a million and 200 thousand kunas. Is that right? Distributions to a total of 97 projects proposed by organisations and individuals. A million two hundred thousand kunas per 100 projects, 12 grand per project. There is no such serious science except for one that can work with pencils and paper that can produce results through such a model of funding. And finally a brief review of the new classes. That the academy needs new classes. It is natural, the environment is developing, there is much change in the world, and the academy should show vitality and identify those classes that should allow the Academy to be even more strongly affirmed in those key strategic directions important for development and the future of the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62003	Thank you. Before the debate continues, I would like to inform you that the 42nd session of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 4 November at 14:00, the Janko Draskovic Hall, and members will be invited to attend the session. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HHS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62004	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues. I will talk about a serious problem of the Croatian Academy, which we discussed at the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and I would start with a sentence I found on the Croatian Academy's web pages, which reads "The mission of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is to include Croatian science in the European and world streams of science, sustainable promotion and systematic increase of investment in research and development of science". My colleagues and colleagues, I am not competent to speak of Croatian art, so I will not touch that part. But I am competent to talk about Croatian and world science. In fact, you saw the HAZU mission being mentioned in the context of the need to involve Croatian science in European and world flows. There lies a problem, colleagues and colleagues, a very serious problem. In fact, world science set very clear benchmarks decades ago. Very clear. Each of us scientists, especially in the field of technical, biomedical, natural sciences, are given a very precise assessment and evaluation of what we have done and what contribution we have made to the World scientific community. In fact, scientists publish the results of their research in scientific journals. There are magazines that are better quality and those that are less quality. Those better-quality magazines are mutually networked to say so. A way for headlines and authors to be mentioned in databases, in so-called tertiary publications that can then easily be searched. It's easy to get those works that are interesting to someone to read, follow, comment, quote. These best magazines are listed in tertiary publications such as... There are other tertiary publications, but they also list slightly less quality magazines, and I would not mention them here. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I'd like to put this first league in my football language, and these are in the second or third leagues. However, colleagues and colleagues, these magazines listed in... is a few thousand on this planet. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] They're not all equal qualities. And now that we can get to the data, which is not less quality. Absolutely, it was given, because editors, scientific committees of certain magazines set very high criteria and ask their reviewers to accept only those manuscripts that are of exceptional quality. Other magazines are less selective. Those who have the highest standards are those with the greatest action factor, the echo factor because scientists value them, read and quote their authors. The third criterion is the citation of a particular scientist. The more the scientist contributed, the more significant his discovery would be, the more his colleagues would quote him in literature at the end of their works and clearly comment on his works and his results. So now we have a minimum of three factors. I'm not going any further because this is enough for me to explain what I want to explain. So we have magazines from the highest group, we have reaction factors of these magazines that we can distinguish them from each other, and we have the citation of individual authors as an additional factor. Now, in the first half of this year in one class of Croatian Academy there were elections for new members and I will compare two candidates. I know both of them, they're both friends of mine, and I'm not gonna tell you who I'm rooting for, and you're gonna come to the conclusion on your own, and you're gonna see that that's not how it's done. Namely, one candidate is 74 years old, retired for several years, and clearly, because of this, he could not have had the divine nature of the scientific activity of these past few years. The second candidate is 57 years old, currently runs 8 scientific projects, mostly international ones funded by prominent world foundations. An older colleague has 50 papers in magazines that I mentioned, a younger colleague has 100 papers in the magazines of the first highest class quoted in... Now, however, we need to see which magazines were published by one or more authors. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] This is where the problems of an older colleague begin. In fact, 50 works by an older colleague have been quoted 28 times so far, so each other's work is quoted once by another author. And a younger colleague has 100 works that have over 3200 quotes, so each of his work is quoted at least 30 times by colleagues in the World Scientific Community. An older colleague led mainly domestic projects, and younger colleagues run international projects funded by the world's most respected foundations. A younger colleague has been invited 74 times to be a visiting professor at the world's most famous institutes. I won't mention an older colleague. A younger colleague is the reviewer of the world's most respected magazines. I'm not going to mention an older colleague. So a younger colleague has 150 times as many quotes as an older colleague, a younger colleague has more quotes than half of the members of the Croatian Academy class who refused to receive it. My colleagues and colleagues, our academy was a 150-year-old institution where they sat the best of the best. The Academy has always been one of the most respected institutions in Croatia. The Academy has always been the pride of the Croatian people. The Academy was a symbol of concern for Croatia's spiritual, economic and cultural values. But colleagues and colleagues, in the academy, a lot has changed in the past 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62005	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62006	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, colleagues and colleagues. I would almost extend the debate in style in which my predecessor Miljenko Doric began. Namely, the data we received from this report right from the beginning, so when it comes to basic data on the membership of the Academy then it is clear that on 31 December 2009, the Croatian Academy had 144 regular members, then 132 correspondence members, and 90 members of the participants. That's a total of 366 members. I'd almost compare it to the number of days a year here and it's the wrong year. What is especially, therefore, visible, and what Mr Doric also spoke of was the fact that the average age of all academics at the end of 2009 was 76 years, not to say 75.9 years, 76 years. Now, according to what Mr. Doric has also brought here for this speaker, I think that the desire for Croatia to become a land of knowledge, to advance in every sense and scientific and cultural way, that young people draw and prove themselves through... and through other journals that have been evaluated in scientific and other respects so as to be quoted and thus have, by way of a quotation or a number of quotations, a renaissance which can then be for these young, relatively young people, given, when I speak, I am not talking about life but rather about status in a scientific sense so that here we can contribute to the improvement and this data that is substrated here in this article 1. So, basic data on the academy membership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that during almost 150 years the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has been founded since Strossmayer was the pride and Dick of Croatia, a symbol of knowledge, congratulation, to say and honor, and that Croatian people in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts have always thought of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in this way. Listing all of what the Academy did in 2009 and what it says here that the work of the Academy, so its 9th grade, 18 units and 15 scientific councils, and the work of the Academy Presidency did in 2009 was really impressive. In particular, I would like to mention a preparation for holding a round table in the Croatian Academy of Energy Security and Southeast Europe. So, one very current topic, one very current problem that we face on a daily basis, and here we are, especially these days. And also at this level, so at the level of the Academy, Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts is also discussing an important, important or important topic for the Republic of Croatia. In any case, once I, when talking about the representation of works or activities of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in the media or public knowledge, cannot be satisfied. When I read the publications of the historical archive of Croatia, some of the publications then I asked the esteemed Mr. Matu Artuković, Mato, if these facts that you have done with your research, so I found out whether they go to the general public, whether they are known to the general public. Then he told me that it was difficult, that it was almost impossible and that this publication remained at the level of the scientific, narrow circle of scientists, history-knowers and nowhere else. Although I have found in these publications very, very interesting facts that would be interesting to us, a large number of our youth, our public, so I believe that in the works of the Academy and its members, so achievements and achievements are not known to the general public. Our general public, by the way, and not to tell a depraved media approach, are much more famous heels, brooches, bags, celibry parties, events, etc. Why is there no interest in the wider Croatian public in science, in art, in what was possibly quoted as said by a colleague in... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why can't the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts be breached with everything that's exposed, so the eye, the ear of our man, our citizen. Why, in fact, it can be said that this is somewhat underestimating. You're saying the media is responsible for getting very hard to break into the media. We here in the Parliament, but you too in the Croatian Academy of Science and Art can also come up with a strategy or whatever you want, as you often call it in politics an action plan which is such that I don't say media blockade or silence break through. And if it breaks through, then the Academy, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, its members will certainly and their works, their opinions, their thinking, and every citizen of ours, which I think is necessary. Because the real representation of these publications I spoke about, the historical archive of Croatia and similar institutions very important for the Republic of Croatia, hardly really come to an ordinary citizen. And if a citizen is in ignorance, although we are, we want to be a state of knowledge then it is very necessary that in this segment the Croatian Academy is present in our daily audience as well as imagined as I know it in 1861 at the foundation of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. New classes, new times, new branches of species, so here it says about film art. So now there are a number of others to say branch or sub-class requires clear and modernization in modernisation, more beautifully said, and in the Croatian Academy of Drafts, Founding and New Classes. Therefore, it is clear that it is necessary to support this attitude that these gentlemen who spoke before me behind this speaker stand stand here. And finally when it comes to the financial report, then we see that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 2009 achieved total revenue from here 76 million kuna, and that is to say one mold, a framework in which activities of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts took place. If we compare this with some other indicators, whether from the state budget or some other funds, and when we mention only the name, and what is the meaning of this, the Croatian Academy of Science and Art, then I would really say a small item. Here are the incentives for tobacco production in the Republic of Croatia for 65 million kuna. Just for example. Croatian Academy of Science and Arts only 10 million so more. And if I didn't talk about any more painful and even worse parameters, or even more about the money that was robbed in various state-owned companies, through corruption affairs, which would have clearly contributed not only to Croatia, if we had used for the right purposes, contributed to the work, and also to the rejuvenation I would say, and to the inclusion of young scientists in the Croatian Academy and proven and artists and scientists in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Since this report is one of the lists of everything the Academy has done and made in 2009 by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and I think that this one is an impressive, impressive number of activities. Here is the HDSSB, Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja will be for the adoption of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62007	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62008	So here's to respect everything the colleagues have said on behalf of the clubs, not to mention, it is again a complex report which is contained in this 113rd book, and we must accept that the work of the entire academy is shown in 9th grade, as well as 18 units and 15 scientific councils, that the academy works outside of Zagreb, in smaller units, in Dubrovnik, Split, Rijeka, Pula, Varazdin, Bjelovar, Osijek, Vinkovci, Tristen and Požega, which proves that the academy still opens and goes to smaller cities, smaller places, which means an enormous amount to those places. I come from a place like this, from Sisak, and I know that every opening of new ones, including classes like this and any scientific units, means a lot to that little place. We've often said here that the academy has one of its own incarceration. The fact is that in the last 3 to 4 years, the academy is primarily the institution, the first institution of science in Croatia, and that it rests on its foundations, but it can be noticed that in the last 3 to 4 years the academy has opened up to the citizens, opened up in its scientific projects, it is important to note that during this period which we are talking about in 2009 the Academy has also been involved in the debate, I would say those daily, life problems of our citizens, in thinking about and solving the economic crisis, which has given a new dimension that science is involved in solving this. She also organized several round tables, e.g. Energy security and Southeast Europe, and a debate in the field of education on national curricula, which is extremely important. So the academy still takes a small step, but important to get close to the citizens. What his colleague Grubisic said, he said that more should be opened to the academy, it should be opened in a way that maybe these scientific papers are popularized, and made available to all citizens. I will especially point out something that may not be highlighted here in these discussions, that I do not repeat myself, which is this international co-operation, and cooperation with Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, in 2009, the Academy also visited the Vojvodina Croats, who asked if the Academy would help establish doctoral studies for Croatians in Vojvodina, which is extremely important to support Croatians living outside the Republic of Croatia. I still have one regret to show here. As a member of the Education Committee already at the last debate, we pointed out on the board and proposed the creation of a new class, it was a class for film art, because we believe that there are conditions for establishing this new class, since the film is no longer a new art, that film deserves to have a special class on film. In 2008, if you remember, we proposed as a committee setting up this class, the presidency supported in principle, and we saw this in this report, supported this initiative of the Education Committee, but it felt that there were still no conditions for this report ahead of us for the establishment, so I am asking on behalf of the members and members of the board to start considering this initiative on setting up a class for film culture. Of course, this will also mean another step in the wider and more extensive work of the Academy, our Academy of Science and Arts, and that in 2010, we will be. in this year in which we are now discussing 2009 and the 14th book may also be able to obtain a certificate for the establishment of this class. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62009	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Roksandić, you and two colleagues before you spoke about the fact that the Croatian Academy is closed, that it is media-insulated. I don't agree with that at all. Scientists cannot be isolated, scientists are integrated into the scientific community according to their scientific contribution. Each member of the academy can publish in the world's most respected magazines, clearly on the reputation of Croatian science, if he is capable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62011	Replica reply, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62012	My colleague Doric, you may not have listened or followed me well, I said that it is often people's opinion that it is a closed institution, but that there is great progress in opening up, when approaching even on the Internet in what the Academy is doing in public, I was talking about the public opinion. I don't think the academy is closed, but I have pointed out how many times the academy has opened up and even in solving the daily problems of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62013	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62014	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary-General of the Academy, distinguished academicist Cvetnic and Madam Secretary of State, I think there are colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking about this report today, but what I have to say right away is we got that report back in May 2010. Unfortunately, it seems it took six months to get this kind of report on the agenda. I know that often we will say that it is also a coincidence, but I still think that one of Croatia's highest scientific institutions deserves much more attention not only through some quotes, but also today we are talking about how proud Croatian science is and everything else, and this distinguished House is unfortunately only after 6 months of this kind of book and this one report with us, many of us have already lost it, so maybe that's why they don't even argue and have forgotten, not to say that it is. We like to boast with the age of this academy, especially we Slavons love and admire its founder, Josip Jurj Strossmayer, but I do not think it is appropriate that one report of such an institution will be held for 6 months and after 6 months will come to the agenda of this Parliament, and the agenda is included in the 5th month. But here it is, unfortunately, the system and the technique of work, so we often think that many things are more important and come to the agenda before a report like this. Another thing he would say, and what was mentioned here today, and also Mr. Honorable Secretary mentioned, the issue of media space and the HAZU. I don't think that media space is used enough, but for useful purposes to present the work of the HAZU, but also its size. In order for this presentation and the Croatian public to be more normally needed, it is certainly clear to all of us. Unfortunately, however, that mind of the academy what was done came here in this year or last year, unfortunately, came in a completely different context. In the context, I don't know whether or not to receive one or more members. And unfortunately through some yellow, and then HAZU came to the front page of the press or a bunch of TVs and radios. I don't think that's a good thing, and yet those who decide to make the reception are the most competent whether or not to say it the way or the way it is. It's like a discussion like Professor Fleischman had. Doric, the arguments he spoke of, I think they should be the subject of conversation, but in competent places. Not in the places of someone talking or some journalist who's heard something, so then an affair is created and through it normally creates a negative image towards both academics and this academy. This often happens unfortunately to us Assembly representatives too, so often we are the subject of some debates that we certainly do not deserve as such because many and I believe the largest majority do this job fairly here in the Parliament, and also these members of the academy. What you'd still like to say is a matter of the form of the academy's work. The academy, we see here, works in these 15 scientific councils. I am the last time, and today I will look back on the scientific council, on agriculture and forestry. I say, I used to have opportunities to participate in the work of such round tables, but here it's written that the plan of activity is only less achieved in this section for the processing of agricultural products and biotechnology I don't think that's good. It is not good, although there are some reasons why and how, but I think that the work of these sections, these scientific councils should normally be much better quality, because through this way they will also be able to present their knowledge, as well as their interest in people, i.e. according to certain areas, to come more significantly to discuss it and to be in the extreme and one contribution to the survival of the Croatian economy. We have also had examples in agriculture and in forestry where we certainly have great opportunities and that we need that knowledge that most of these most of these academics have to put into the function of offering solutions to the problems present and that this problem should be much more useful in direct practice, and also in that part of what was spoken in the spirit of integration with Europe. So, not only is it a presentation and a connection through certain works, but normal and certain concrete solutions that will also help our economy which is very necessary at the moment. Next thing you know, it's a matter of field work. These are, say, the Institute for Scientific and Art Works in Osijek. I think when we look at what that institution did last year with the scientific council there, I think it should be more of that scientific work and that scientific unit in Osijek specifically related to the economy of that region. Just saying about the previous sector for agriculture and the economy, I think that the issue of decentralisation that we are constantly talking about, but I think that such selection should be much more useful and would probably be the driver of certain activities in such a single institution. I don't say projects like the Franciscan monastery in Osijek or Valpo's scientific gatherings by those who were, theatre heritage of Valpova etc. They are certainly necessary and the aim is to explore. But I think this section for agriculture, the food industry, forestry that should probably go more through such an institution in a particular area like Slavonia, I think that it would make more and more of a living and concrete programme to the benefit of that economy. And here I would finally say that by estimating both the importance and authority of HAZU, I think its knowledge and meaning should be much more used for real life, for solving Croatia's economic problems, for presenting them through the media. But in this positive useful sense. And normally, the failures that happen, the need to expand certain new classes, etc. should be placed in the position of this academy, so that it is certainly authoritatively determined to resolve it. And as far as I'm concerned, I also support this part of funding. I don't think the funds that are given are in vain and should be monitored in any case by growth and other parts of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62015	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear academics Cvvetnić, colleagues and colleagues. I can only assume how much pride was filled with space in this Croatian Parliament when Bishop Josip Juraj Strosmeyer launched an initiative to establish the Academy and expressed his desire to meet all better minds in 1861 and to involve all human sciences. To assume how proud the first president of the academy was, Dr. Franjo Rackki, the other 15 members. That pride was to be kept to this day, and that pride should be kept forever at the HAZA. And why is that? Well, because the academy is of particular national importance, because, as counterpart Doric said, the vision of HAZU is a society of knowledge and science, and the mission of the Academy is to involve Croatian science in European and world flows, and to worry about the important factors of cultural, spiritual, economic, political and universal progress in Croatia, but also about the affirmation of Croatia in the world. In this context, I support this report and everything the Academy has done for the sake of Croatia and science. But I would also point out the personal feeling that the academy did not use enough necessary and measured influence on the public. The public in particular did not pay enough attention to the academy, but the academy was not present enough in public. And the voice of wisdom, the voice of reason, the voice of knowledge, the voice of experience and the voice of science need Croatia more than ever. The operation of the academy is particularly desirable in crisis situations, where bigger crises than in today's global economic crisis under conditions and consequences of a major economic recession. When it comes to the Development Strategy, the perspectives of Croatia, when discussing the most important cultural, political, economic, social issues, then it is necessary to hear the voice of authority, the voice of the intellectual elite, the voice of the academy. And that voice in my personal impression is often lagging behind. And this is not a criticism, this is an appeal, this is an appeal to your voice. For years, Croatia has been plagued by legal and social doubts over privatisation processes, privatisation illegalities, and the academy has kept silent and silent. The Croatian University in Zagreb is experiencing difficult moments. A lot of colleges are in the Index affair. The academy kept quiet. The inequality of teaching programmes at universities, issues of criteria is evident. The academy is silent. Massive and quite dangerous phenomenon of commercialisation of higher schools and professional studies, lack of quality programs, lack of quality professors at higher schools. The academy's silent about it too. The Bologna process isn't even alive, and it's already in deep crisis. The academy is silent, too. The first graders are uninvited and out of work. That's what a voice needs to be heard about. Many undesirable phenomena in society since the mass collapse of banks ten years ago, lack of business culture, a sharp increase in business immorality, embezzlement, bankruptcy, tax ejaculation. The academy is silent, and her voice needs to be heard. More unhealthy food, more environmental pollution. And the class of natural sciences is silent. More and more harmful medicines, more and more patients dying from the use of medicinal products for the cured. And the medical science class is silent. And HAZU Academy has something to say. She needs to use her vast intellectual potential. She needs to take advantage of her enormous authority. The Academy has something to say about the reform of the education system and about the reform of the health system and about the internal structure of the Republic of Croatia and about the local self-government of the Academy has something to say about Croatian broadcasting. The Academy has something to say about the church's relationship with the state, the academy has a lot to say. But it's interesting that the academy kept quiet when there was an obvious public conflict between the former president of the state and the church, and it intervened when it was necessary to propose a medal for the former president to honor two of the Academy of Deserved Communists from the former state. That's what gets in the eyes. The Academy is a place in the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council in my personal opinion. There is no place for a representative of the employers' association. The Academy is to be fought for this place, although the academy, for example, in my opinion is before the seat of the Croatian School's Programme Council than in the school boards because it is discussed in most cases on technical details, on cleaning women, cooks and technical problems of schools, and only once in five years about the appointment of directors. The reputation of academia and damage occurs like the one that took place around Professor Djikic when the academy proposed the admission of a prominent scientist to the academy, and then the same academy refused membership. The impression is that scientific criteria did not prevail in this case, and if scientific criteria did not prevail, then I am sad that others prevailed. Because Professor Djikic, we should be proud of him, and how proud we should be that the German Academy of Science took him into its ranks. This isn't, I wouldn't want it to be seen as just a criticism, but an invitation for the academy to fulfill and exploit all its potential and authority. I have the impression that the academy lacks institutional courage, and the courage is best shown in trouble, and Croatia is indeed part of a world economic trouble, and now more than ever, it is necessary to hear the voice of the academy. And you take this all well-intentioned and I support your report and all the activities you're doing, but to hear more of your voice in public because it means a lot to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62017	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62018	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretary of the academy. Mr. Maric, you were saying that in a crisis you needed to hear the voice of the academy, so one thing is, of course, what you mentioned was that the first-rates were without a call and a job. I think yesterday I had a chance right at the Faculty of Food and Technology in Osijek to see when the dean signed the first graders' beliefs, probably over 50 were. And I ask what, where... No, he says almost everyone's enrolling for the next two years. [[You don't understand.]] So these three years plus two years, it turns out for sure that it might be more useful if there was a five-year study than this is now three plus two, or most of them are listed further. Is it because they don't have jobs or because they want to, that they're good students and everything. But I think it's one of the examples of the topic on which the academy should certainly say something more because they're all academics and experienced professors who've raised generations of experts. They certainly have the right and opportunity to publicly say what they think and I think it would be more useful both for the ministries and for the Parliament and for all of us who are making certain legal provisions about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62019	At 10.55, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62020	Thank you very much. Comrade Bodakosh, I am pleased that you agree with this example of a negative that has really fallen into everyone's eyes dealing with this profession, but nothing is done to correct it. The big problem is first graders, the big problem is specialist masters. How many masters are specialists in economics and doctors in economic science without studying the economy at all. It's a serious social problem. Our higher education is extended. It is widespread, but the tree is not valued by leaves but by fruit, and the fruit of our higher education is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62021	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You told your colleague Maric in your presentation that the academy is silent about key issues in society. I agree with you because what we can expect from the other segments of Croatian society if that part that is most educated and expected to be loud, shut up about key problems. We Croatians often complain that we have somehow maintained our subjective mentality, that we are used to being under other people's shoes Peshta, Vienna, Belgrade, so today, despite having our own independent and independent stately habits, we should speak very loudly about some topics that are important to culture, identity, faith, and customs of the Croatian people. It's often a question of whether or not we have elites. Our politicians are called on a daily basis, but my question is what is with our intellectual elites, can we call them that if they really keep quiet about key problems? Today, the Croatian people are neither ignorant nor hungry, today the Croatian people have their own state and therefore should not implement a policy of irresponsibility in that country, but those responsible each of them from their own level of responsibility should do their job. This is why I, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, expect the Academy to speak for the silent majority because the silent majority thinks what the members of the Academy are probably thinking, and in this way we will suppress all those phenomena that have been happening lately in Croatian society, that a loud minority imposes its rules that have nothing to do with the identity of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62023	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62024	Thank you, dear colleague Petyr. I agree with you that the Academy should be an initiator and a trigger, because the intellectual elite in Croatia has been silent for a long time and we need to wake it up. The Academy does not implement or solve problems, and neither is expected of them, nor can it. But several wise sentences, several independent words, are expected to help with scientific approach and professional analysis to the peaceful resolution of crisis situations in Croatia. I understand why she has never reacted to the case that the biggest Croatian bank in Zagrebačka banka has turned without knowing who owns it, nor why no June has been paid into the budget of the sale. But I don't understand why he doesn't report in Warsaw cases, because these are exactly the kind of crisis situations that can be dealt with more peacefully when the voice of authority, the voice of the intellectual elite is heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62025	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62026	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Academyman, ladies and gentlemen. I am reporting as one of those who provides support certainly to the Academy and this wonderful, transparent report which actually shows the extensive work of the Academy, while at the same time it is an extraordinary reading to learn everything the Academy does. And there's actually a lot to learn from that report. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and presence here by the respected gentleman of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts and show one of my dissatisfaction not personally but dissatisfaction because the academy is not involved in a segment that is very, very important to me except in a small part. Namely, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, so the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is also the working body of the Parliament, and we have recently had one session of the committee that we have dedicated to the thematic adoption of the strategy of Croatia's relationship with Croats in the world and the law that will be implemented from this. And it has been announced and approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and will be adopted. In any case, the document would have much more power and would be better quality if the Academy were involved in its production. When we called the Academy representatives, unfortunately, we didn't get any answers. So, except that no one answered or came to this session, and it would be a great honor and a great help to us we have not received any explanation for which no one has come. I am not offended by this, but I would like to ask here the present representative of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts to actually get as much involved in the production of this document as possible. And generally, and on the trail of what my colleagues have been saying so far, I think it is a place for the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to take particular advantage of its position, because it is indeed an intellectual elite not only in these segments it deals with, but generally for Croats outside Croatia. You know that the Croatian national minority in certain European countries is having a hard time, that it does not meet even the minimum of respect for the rights, that Croatia can actually be an example of its constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, and that there is no attempt to establish reciprocity when it comes to Croatian rights as a Croatian national minority in neighbouring countries. On the other hand, I think it is time and it would be very important that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts also in the context of its action, and besides it if it is necessary to talk about the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is known that Croats are a people in Bosnia and Herzegovina but without those rights stemming from the Constitution that should be given to them, etc. So I am actually appealing, especially to the Committee on International Co-operation, at the same time welcoming the doctoral study for the Croats in Vojvodina, which I see you have encouraged because you have received representatives from the Croatians from Vojvodina, and I am happy about that. But at the same time, I ask the Academy to include itself to a greater extent not only in the production of these documents which are very important here, which should define Croatia's relationship with Croats in the world, which certainly includes culture, art and everything else, but also what is the basic task of the Academy, certainly science. Finally, my support is one more time to work at the Academy and call for the Academy to be involved in making these documents. I will make an effort myself to make an effort in front of the Committee which is now working on these documents once again to address the Academy to make its contribution, and besides that the Academy is also following the state of the Croats in the world to also its own contribution at the level at which it can and within its possibilities. Because I repeat one thing in the right sense is the word of an intellectual elite whose voice should be heard when it comes to the protection of all those rights and all those questions that were spoken of here. In Croatia and morals and laws and legality, etc., as well as all those issues relating to the rights of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, primarily the Croatian national minority and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62027	Thank you. Three replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62028	... in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the people, towards the Croatian people below. [[Specially enabled.]] And I agree with my colleague Bagaric that she should play a more proactive role for sure and it is a pity that she is not more actively involved in the very events that are happening in that space. But I think that we should have a clear policy and define the Republic of Croatia, and we see, several times we talked, we talked about how it's a shame to keep pushing on the agenda and pushing the discussion of these two declarations that you have encouraged us to encourage the emigration and this debate, two declarations of problems and the state of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think we should define a clearer policy, the Republic of Croatia should have a more proactive policy, clearer attitude towards the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He who hasn't been down there doesn't know what problems people face, with a general condition that rules in places that aren't closer to Mostar, and I'm talking about worse space than Posavina, closer to Eggs. These are villages and people who live in difficult, very difficult conditions and that's our policy. We must definitely be more Republic of Croatia more proactive and have a clear vision and policy how and in what way help people down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62029	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62030	Thank you. Dear counterpart Kotromanović, I agree that we should have a clear policy and it should be clearly guided and defined, and this is an important statement of this policy and, in fact, everything that the Prime Minister does in all meetings, with international representatives, but also with representatives of Croats outside Croatia. On the other hand, I think this Parliament must have one level of consensus when it comes to the issue, and then it is inadmissible, but it is really unacceptable for a representative, or president of the strongest opposition parties to participate in political events in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in the elections, and thus to give support to the election of the man representing Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not to be elected by the votes of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is simply inadmissible, because members of the Presidency according to the Constitution represent the peoples, and these peoples choose these people, not the citizens. And it's not good to get involved that way and actually do damage. On the other hand, the document, which also stands in the procedure in the Croatian Parliament, titled the Declaration of Support for the Croatian People in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is also a document that needs to be reached full consensus in order to be adopted in the Croatian Parliament. In the Croatian Parliament, it is certainly not good to bring any document of this kind, and where we will argue and reason when it comes to our position, our relationship with the part of the people that belongs to us, and the activity that I just spoke about earlier to the head of the opposition in any case was not good and was not well received among the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I also think that it was harmful in the end, I honestly think it hurt and will damage Bosnia and Herzegovina, because Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a lasting solution, a peaceful solution, and no conflict solution as it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62031	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm listening to the debate, so I have a feeling that the work of the academy is about to be praised first, so there's a few nice words about intellectual power, ability, and then we're not happy with the academy's contribution. There's some discretion. I would like the academy and academics as houses of intellectual freedom to observe how much they contribute to the development of this society, not how much money they spend. I'm less interested in that. When I look at it like that, I could say that from the academy, at least I haven't read a single critical review of a 17-year concept of society's development, which in my opinion led us to a crisis rather than a global financial crisis. So the concept of the development of Croatian society is not from a critical distance observed by people who have an intellectual ability, but also an intellectual obligation to say without tightening what they think about it. They must not raise politics, nor politicians, nor the time in which they operate. We have not heard anything from this, so it is easy to conclude that the academy from a distance has observed trends of development in the Republic of Croatia, which now in order to correct them we must sacrifice perhaps a few generations. We haven't heard about it since the academy, I'd like to see the academy work that way. Of course, when we look at only one year, then we can say they spent so much money, they published the book so much, and as much as it contributed to the development of society, unfortunately, neither does the academy offer it, nor do we look at it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62033	Replication response, Mr. Representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62034	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Leco, when I showed my satisfaction with the work of the Academy, then I thought of her 144 members, 132 by letter, 9 by grade, 18 units, 15 scientific councils, a multitude of what was done, not done. So when you look at the entire academy report, it's really impressive, and the academy really does do quality, quality things, produce and make a significant contribution. On this side, I cannot dispute that contribution. On the other hand, I watched from one segment, you understand from one angle, so I am eventually elected by the votes of Croats outside Croatia and I represent this committee among other things. Now, on that side, my specific remark, that is to say, is that of the academy that I've been putting out here. I agree with you in that part, so the academy should also talk about the concept of the development of Croatian society, and about issues, and about those from the economic, moral sphere, etc. Normally the academy needs to come forward, and it would be important for her to contribute, but normally I don't agree that the government has actually contributed more over the past few years, I don't know everything we have now as bad consequences, but all the economic crisis. If we are going to talk about this, then we must say that Croatia was created after the aggression and in defence against this aggression, with huge material human damage, loss, and it was not easy to train the institutions and the state on their feet. On the other hand, this economic, global crisis in any case did not bypass Croatia and left it, and it was a fundamental clue and a basic contribution to everything we are dealing with and what we are dealing with now, and I believe that the Croatian government, which is now here and which has recently received support in the Croatian Parliament, will successfully cope and will actually successfully respond to all these problems that we are now in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62035	And Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have well noticed in your debate that you have said one thought that the Croatian Academy, the sports dictionary, should not react to events in Croatia, should not react to every ball, to events in Warsaw, to protests of peasants in price, etc., and to you as you said in your debate, the Croatian Academy was involved when the debate in Croatian school, Croatian science, Croatian culture, the economy of the Republic of Croatia, the relationship of the Republic of Croatia to Croats outside of Croatia, when it comes to the relationship of state and church, and not as in some countries in the environment to lead, I would say, all the politics of a country. That doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62037	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62038	That's exactly how a colleague of Shima. I'm also in that section and I welcomed the work of the academy and the academy is too important an institution to deal with every single excess in society. However, general science and culture and health and education is a planetary issue, so there are no national borders, let alone borders when it comes to Croatian people. When we talk about the culture of the Croatian people, at the end of scientific cooperation, economic cooperation then in any case it is to dance the network at one world level, Croatian and world level. Because the diaspora is increasingly playing an important place in the world and countries in the world are increasingly paying attention to their diaspora because the world has become a global village, because it is in fact the way that knowledge is transferred from the world to the homeland where, in fact, the homeland of that diaspora is from. On the other hand, together with the activities of everyone who goes from the world, there goes this international cooperation and development and the contribution that should be said all Croatian. In this place and at that level, the academy can certainly play a very important role. And, I don't know, it might be that I'm not able to assess it, but it feels like there's a need for a larger academy engagement in that segment because the academy is really an intellectual elite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62039	Final review, Secretary-General of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts Slavko Cvetnić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62040	I ended up thanking you with a few words for your concern and attention, which, I must point out, this year, you have very thoroughly supported and followed. I'm seven years in a row here now and I can't remember this content debate at the time. I, of course, tried to hear and remember everything that was said. Some of this I have also written down and be assured that all of your concerns, dilemmas which are also our concerns and dilemmas will be discussed and taken into account by the Academy's administration, the Academy's Presidency, the Academy's Assembly and your proposals, your opinions. In the end, I can only thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62041	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. 10th Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2009. He's an applicant at the academy. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposed report shall be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 99 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, a conclusion has been reached that accepts the proposed report. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes to the Croatian Assembly to conclude: The Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to establish a class for visual art, film and theatre. ... Didn't we hear? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes to the Croatian Assembly to conclude: The Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to establish a class for visual art, film and theatre. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 80 votes in favour and 9 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached. Comrade Antičević, that name comes from the word to show, appear. You know? Yeah, yeah. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As a transformation, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62044	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have a regular annual report on the implementation of the National Strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse for 2009. This comprehensive report, which practically provides all the data for the whole 2009 and shows the real situation, would only draw out certain perhaps indicative figures and indicative parts of the report that can in some way illustrate what the real situation is in not only the implementation of the National Strategy but in general about drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. Please allow the following: 29 000 and 120 people were registered in the Register of People treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs by the Croatian Public Health Institute, which runs the register by the end of 2009. That's about a year ago, an increase of about 6.2%. Of these, there were 7000 and 733 people during the 2009 treatment period, 18% or 1460 of whom appeared for the first time. The total number of drug addicts treated was increased compared to 2009, but the decrease seen was the emergence of new persons in the treatment system where the trend since 2008 and 2007 followed where the proportion of newly treated in the total number of treatments was 22%, which dropped to 18% in 2009. Because of the abuse of opiates during 2009 there were 6 thousand 251 people, 667 of whom were first treated, making up about 10% of all those who were treated for the abuse of opiates. According to data on the total number of people treated from 15 to 64 years of age, the highest rate was treated in Istria County, followed by Zadar and the City of Zagreb. However, when looking at the opiate addictions, then it is the first place in Istria County, then Zadarska and Sibenik-Knin County and then the City of Zagreb. The mean age of first taking any drug addiction is 16 years, and the mean age of first heroin is 20.3 years, while it is 21.2 years for intravenous use. The mean age of first treatment and treatment is 26.2 years. With some satisfaction, then, we can say that the number of deaths due to overdose in 2009, or 89 people, died due to an overdose, while 116 people died from overdose in 2008. The total number of drug addicts who were in rehab and rehabilitation in the therapeutic communities in 2009 was 1137, representing one decline from both 2008 and 2007. The epidemiological picture of dependence in the Republic of Croatia indicates in fact certain stability in the system and the need to continue applying the recommendations of the National Strategy. In 2009, 5 thousand 246 people were seized of all types of drugs, down from 10% compared to the previous year. A significant shift was made in the quantities of the seized drug of the type hashish and marijuana, which has been more seized since 2008, and 4 incinerations have been held in Našice Cement, with more than 5 tonnes of drugs burned. In 2009, 7000 and 063 crimes related to drug abuse and smuggling were recorded. Five thousand and 019 persons have been reported for crimes committed, which is somewhat less than in the same reporting period in 2008. 4000 550 infringements have been filed, which is also a certain drop in the number of infringements compared to 2008. In 2009, 2,000 790 adults were convicted of all drug crimes, while 18% of fewer persons were charged compared to 2008. A further decline in juvenile crime related to drug use is also observed in minors. While 218 minors were reported during 2009 in 2008, 206 of whom 158 minors were detained for the most minor form of the crime or possession of drugs for their own use. The number of drug addicts charged with drug abuse and without a measure of treatment directed to the execution of prison sentences for the past 10 years has been on the rise. In 2009, however, a certain decline was observed compared to the previous year by 18%. In the Republic of Croatia, a total of 87.4 million kuna were spent in the implementation of the drug prevention and control programmes, i.e. the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse and the Action Plan, from the county budgets of an additional €11.98 million, amounting to €99.4 million, by 6.8% more than the year before. It should be pointed out from significant activities that the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which deleted the termology intoxicatedly, established a new system of control over precursors and shortened deadlines for the destruction of drug use in a way that can be destroyed even after the necessary evidence operations have been carried out. The implementation of the Resociation project of drug addicts has been continued. From the beginning of the project, professional guidance and assessment of work capacity have been carried out for 167 treated addicts, and 78 treated addicts have been involved in education and education. A total of 41 treated addicts were employed. Four million kunas have been additionally spent to implement the resociation. Negotiations have been completed in the full participation of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, and an agreement has been initialled with the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and Signing is expected by the end of this year. In order to intensify the implementation and preventive activities of the educational system, the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth in the Educational System, and children and young people in the 2010-2014 welfare system adopted by the government this year in June, was developed. This is the first document that combines preventive strategies aimed at curbing and preventing the emergence of all forms of addiction among children and young people, as well as the risky behaviour of children and young people associated with experimentation with means of addiction, including prevention of drug addiction, alcohol, smoking, the Internet, betting and all other species in child addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62045	Thank you. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Internal and National Security? I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ MPs Mrs. Nedelja Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62046	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the report comprehensively and specifically depicts the state of drug abuse in Croatia, international trends, epidemiological conditions and the movement of drug abuse control. We have seen through the report that data on treated persons, then the movement of crime as well as the cross-section of activities in the area of drug abuse, prevention and treatment of addiction, all activities carried out by all ministries, local and regional self-government, international co-operation, associations and treatment communities during 2009. It should also be said that since 2000, the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse has been reporting on the implementation of the national strategy and the Action Plan on Drug Abuse. In 2009, 6.2% of people treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs, as the secretary of state earlier said that a total of 29 thousand 120 people were registered by the Public Health Office. Warning is the registration of under 14 years of age who have entered the treatment system, though most of them are for marijuana, but also for those who use more drugs. The number of all persons treated in the health care system is relatively stable. The total number of drug addicts treated in 2009 increased by 2.9% and this represents a slight increase compared to 2008 and the treatment of opiates is up 6.7%. The total number of withdrawal and rehabilitation addicts in the therapeutic communities in 2009 is the smallest since 2005. There is also an increase in treatment amongst so-called patients. A weekend of consummation. The frequency of treatment due to opiate abuse continues to increase. The highest rate treated for opiate addiction to 100,000 residents as I will say again, Mr. Secretary of State said they have Istrian County, then Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska and the city of Zagreb. The average age of the first taking of any drug addiction is 16 years and this is worrying, and 13 minors under 14 years of age are also registered in the treatment system. There has been an increase in the number of patients treated for the use of amphetamines. It is also an alarming fact that between 6 and 7 years of age from the first use of any means to treatment. And it's been a constant for years. The number of deaths since 2007 has dropped, the number of deaths caused by overdose has decreased. The deceased were treated for an average of 9 years. The epidemiological picture of addiction in Croatia points to a stable system and the need to continue to apply the national strategy recommendations effectively. The report also shows that all resolution ministries have actively implemented measures of the national strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse. A step in significant financial support has also been seen by local and regional self-government in implementing the Anti-Addiction Programme. There are a few fewer crimes involved in drug abuse and smuggling than in the last three years. By 10.8%, it was even less seized than in 2008. There was also a decline in juvenile crime related to drug abuse. There is also a decline in the number of drug addicts and a fall in the number of drug addicts in the prison system that had not previously been given a precautionary treatment measure. The law on the prevention of drug abuse, which we brought in last year, deleted the term intoxicated, established a new system of surveillance over the precursors and set a shorter deadline for the destruction of stolen drugs. The implementation of the project on the resociation of addicts has been continued, and in order to improve the implementation of preventive activities in the educational system, the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth has been developed, as well as for children and young people in the social care system for the period 2010 to 2014, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 4 June this year. This is the first document that combines strategies aimed at curbing all forms of addiction between children and young people, as well as the risky behaviour of children and young people related to experimenting with means of addiction. The document includes prevention of drug addiction, alcohol, smoking, the Internet, betting and other addictions in children and young people. In 2009, there was a major increase in prevention activities related to drug use in transport. The report also points out that every day we meet new types of drugs and new forms of smuggling. This points us to the gray zone and also to new efforts on the other side, finding new methods, especially preventive ones. This is only possible through the joint efforts of all actors, co-ordinated by both national and local communities. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ club supports the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62047	Thank you. HNS-HSU club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The 2009 report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia needs and provides a response to the success or failure of all entities that have had an impact on the two basic objectives set by the National Strategy and Action Plan, which are to reduce drug supply and reduce drug consumption. The report has given rise to a series of data that unfortunately have a trend in growth, but in a negative direction, we must generally conclude that we have failed to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what we have recorded in some areas and some positive shifts. The data suggests that in 2009 in the Republic of Croatia we have 6.2% more treated persons due to the abuse of psychoactive drugs, 2.9% more treated addicts. There are 80.8% of opiate addicts among treated subjects, which is 3.1% more than in 2008. According to the number of treated addicts, Istria and Zadar County take the first two seats. The report further mentions that cities and counties allocated 34.3% more funds from their budgets in 2009 to implement the Addiction Prevention Programme. The activities of social institutions have increased, and all this has not resulted in a downward trend in supply and demand for drugs. Only 16 years is the average age of first-time addiction, and 10 years is on average needed to reach the first treatment. 13 people under 14 years of age were treated in 2009. It's good information to reduce death rates due to overdose. In therapy communities, there are fewer addicts in rehab and rehabilitation, and I don't think it's a good situation because as the data suggests, the total number of addicts is growing. Where they are, who took care of them. 9.64% is part of the crime in the area of drug abuse in total crime and is slightly smaller than in previous years. This year, therefore, the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth in the Educational System, which combines drug addiction prevention, alcohol, smoking, the Internet, betting and other addictions, was adopted in 2010. We at the HNS-HSU club agree on the care of addicts who make up a separate group of sick people. Every recovery and return of addicts to normal life justifies every money and effort invested in healing and should be sustained. But prevention, and that quality prevention, is the task and real concern of the state for the healthy youth of Croatia on which our country's future depends. The number of births in our country is falling, so there is a growing number of young citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are exposed to the increasingly powerful effects of drug marketing, whose products make incomprehensible damage to young people, as well as society as a whole. The drug unfortunately found its market and consumption in both cities and rural parts of our homeland. The drop in drug prices, especially dance prices, finds more and more users whose age is getting lower, are getting younger. From this comes the conclusion, we do not have enough quality mechanisms to protect against drug abuse in primary and secondary school students who, as I have already mentioned because of the birth rate, are getting smaller and smaller every year. Schools and parenting homes must participate in a real and effective prevention. Neither of them did their homework, because if they did, we'd have a downward trend in indicators. Where there are reasons to avoid both parents and teaching staff. There's more. But the main reason for us is ignorance. The alarming data from one survey showed that 80% of parents in primary and secondary schools do not know what the joint consists of or what the ecstasya tablet looks like. This ignorance that the space for drug dealers and addicts who are happy and dedicated to provide a distorted picture of drugs to curious and naive young people, and the results of colleagues and colleagues are found in the data of this Report. Those results raise questions. First of all, there is a question of the responsibility of all the factors involved in countering drug abuse. The quality and definition of the programme's tasks to all who are invited to work in this area is raised. We mean, of course, ministries, state institutions, families, schools, etc. The issue of control of the performance of all tasks shall be raised. Finally, the issue of funding is raised. All non-response cards need to be accounted for for. They need to be changed or abolished. The report shows that in the last year we invested a little less than 100 million kuna in this area, or that is a total increase of 6.8%. In return, we didn't get the results we were supposed to get or the results we expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62049	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62050	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here's how I'm going to start with this quote on the 9th quote that data on drug production from the report on the state of drugs united by the UN Drug and Crime Office for 2009 shows a 19% decrease in the production of machetes in Afghanistan, and a 18% reduction in coke farming in Colombia. It's a finished quote. So, 150 thousand troops means NATO in Afghanistan, among them I almost don't know now, 300, over 300 Croatian soldiers have managed to reduce use, i.e. It's only 18% of the growth of that macaque. And then a man normally asks himself what our youngsters are even looking for in Afghanistan when we know that NATO's mission is lost anyway, and the production of macaque isn't nearly touched. Now, come on, so much for the introduction, but let's move on. On page 11, there is a clear drug problem in Europe as well. In Europe at least 74 million people, I quote, tried cannabis. marijuana, in Europe, was used by at least 3.5% of people, cocaine was used in Europe by at least 13 million people." Here's so much about the Europe we're looking for! But far from everyone in Europe being clearly drugged, but what we're going to do is statistics that can cheat. Unfortunately, what we really need to worry about is that Croatia is not much better either. In Croatia, we have 29120 registered addicts. More and more young people are on those heavy drugs. How to simply fight it, how to stand up to it. My proposal would be, I don't know if it's already been introduced somewhere that we have mandatory or mandatory testing either in schools, in colleges, in every systematic review, in employment, in traffic, I don't know about driving exams, etc. etc. Would that test cost you? Of course it costs, but in my court it might at this point be one of the most profitable investments in the Republic of Croatia. At age, so when I'm talking about drugs, it's actually a population of 20 to 35 years. On page 24, it is literally said that I, or 25, quote: "In 7 counties, the number of addicts per 100,000 inhabitants is higher than the average of Croatia." And what just saddens me in the first place is Istrian County 572.7, but it doesn't matter if it's Istria or any other county or city. Second place there is Zadar County 517, so the city of Zagreb, Dubrovnik-Neretljan County, Sibenik-Kninska, Split-Dalmatia and Primorje-Gorski means above that republican space. So the County of Istria once again says in the first place in Croatia what will say that there is a serious problem down there. Why? How? Is there a better prevention there, so it's all being recorded? Is there worse work there, like the police? No, it's not, though, I'll prove it later. Is it a higher standard? I don't think that matters at all when it comes to that drug I don't know, but I do know that when it comes to addiction Istria certainly has a problem. They all do, but Istra may be here first, and there's no need to run from the truth. I'm reading yesterday, the day before yesterday, alcohol is a bigger problem than drugs. I don't know, nonsense. And clearly alcohol is a problem, but drugs are something else. If there's a will, I think it's settled between the police and one comprehensive national consensus that certainly exists. Who's having an impact on the police? State. Of the 1400 police officers in Istria, I don't know if it's 400, maybe 500 Istrian. It doesn't matter. I'm also calling from Istrian's pay phone to report to the police, etc. But what we do when our people don't, they won't, and they won't. There are many reasons why I won't now, but I think the problem is safe when it comes to addiction in Istria exists and that it needs to be dealt with primarily by family. But what do we do when the family finds out last? A little while ago, my predecessor said that entering the world of drugs is starting at the age of 16. This should be dealt with in an understandable manner both by schools and police, or by the state, and by local self-government, and by courts, etc., etc. And for the third time I will say, when it comes to my county, that we have a problem, so perhaps even though the system is better organised in some way, but the Croatian average is 209, in Istria 529 addicts to 100,000 inhabitants. The 32nd page, so I also want to quote this, says the average time of the first taking of any means in 2002, was 16 years, so there we were in 2007, 2008, 2006 dropped to 15.9, today it's 16 years again. The average age of first heroin use in 2002 was 19.9 years, today it's 20.3. The average age of taking I.V. means 21.2 years. The average age of first reporting for treatment was 24.9 years ago, and now it's 26.2 years old. And the number of years from the first taking of any means until the first coming to treatment, it was 8.9 years ago, now it's 10.2 years. It would be ideal for these deadlines to be reduced in some way clearly. As it means to fight it, I think that's the point, however, to make the problem much more serious is seen here on page 39, and that's the number of deaths to the county in the year 2000-2009. What should be fair and admit that the problem in Croatia is generally being reduced in some way. We had a case that in 2007, as many as 165 people died, 2008. 116, and 2009 89 people. It's a big problem, but it's a normal problem, for example. Looks like an Istrian County. In 2007, we had 17 deceased, 2008 four, 2009. 13 of the deceased, which will say that we may be the only county in which the number of deaths was higher in 2009 than in 2008. Since 2000 in Istria, pardon 2007 means never more deaths. I said in Croatia, the number of addicts, these deaths are reduced, in Croatia we can say that 89 deaths have not been reported since 2001, which will say that they are large, under quotes of great success, in Istria unfortunately we have more deaths than in a year before, more than one year until 2007. I clearly call no one, but where there are problems Istria, Zadar, Primorje-Gorski County, Split, City of Zagreb, there should certainly be the most work to be done. How? I'm going back to those tests, in school, in traffic, in employment, etc., etc. Otherwise, young people die, more and more of the truth. In 2000, page 41, it was 27.8 years old, 2009 at 33.6 years old, so life span kind of extends by 6 years, from 27.8 to 33.6 years, but no matter what, we all know that it's about, under quotes, impertinently young people who de facto haven't even started living. Clearly, I don't want to call it here when it comes to this problem of no one, no politics, no administration, no police. Why? Because here on page 57 is literally said that the largest number of people seized is again recorded at the Zagreb Police Administration level, it is clearly the largest police administration, I don't know how many people are working in Zagreb, but it's the largest city, space, 850 thousand inhabitants, and then it means behind Zagreb with a thousand 91 of that seizure followed by Istria County with 805 seized, and then, with 200 thousand inhabitants, then Split-Dalmatia with 655 seized on the circus, don't take me by word, 450 thousand inhabitants, so Primorje-Gorski with 602, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska with 445, Zadar with 253, etc., etc. So after Zagreb, where I said almost 850 thousand people live, where there were thousands of 91 seized, then immediately after the confiscation is the area of Istria with some 200 or today something more clear, 200 thousand inhabitants where 805 were seized. The 83rd page, which refers to the ratio of the number of crimes of drug abuse to the county. It is necessary to quote this table, and then it is seen that the structural unit, meaning the number of criminal acts in 2008, means the criminal charges it submits, meaning the competent Ministry of Interior, was far the most in the Republic of Croatia at 630, 2009 thousand 74, and this is a clear unequivocal fact that the Ministry of Interior or the Police Administration of the County of Istria is doing its job. So according to criminal charges, we were there last year right behind the City of Zagreb, but in total, in the last two years, the most recent criminal charges were in Istria, which clearly confirms that the Istrian County Police Administration is dealing with this problem, doing the job, etc. And for the fourth time, the fifth time I'm going to say we have a problem, the problem is big, I'm talking about Istria now, and Croatia too. I'm calling, but I don't have to call for anything, what a consensus in that fight, because clearly it exists. I call for parents to talk, it's an addiction, it's a disease, it's no shame, it's finally our children, they're our obligation. And now for the end of page 151, let me find this, where the financial resources spent from the county budget for the implementation of county action plans to combat drug abuse. In the first place last year, if I'm not mistaken in memory, that was Split-Dalmatia County with spent 3.3 million kuna. The second place was Istria County, I said we have about 250 thousand inhabitants less than Split-Dalmatia with 2 million 120 thousand. We're far behind by spent means, all the rest of us. It starts with Primorje-goranska with a million and 600 thousand kuna, Zadar with a million 300 thousand kuna. The city of Zagreb spent only 309 thousand kuna, etc. So he's worried, but I guess that's not clear enough either. For the end of once again, parents – talk, talk about it, let's not be ashamed because it's the only way to talk to each other to the police, to the community, to ourselves. And as for these tests, I don't know, let it be everywhere from school to driving, in traffic, I don't know, etc., etc. Because the problem is serious. Those of us who have little children are not yet faced with it, but we are afraid of it, and those who are of some adolescent age have a major problem when it comes to drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62051	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So I'm going to try to keep going, or I'm going to try to use what I came behind my colleagues, Caine, to pollute from his 2 thesis. In fact, quoting a thesis he probably saw on the Internet these days, which is that alcohol is more dangerous and more evil than heroin, he slightly lativated it and said it wasn't true. However, if the thesis is literally quoted, or actually published in a British magazine, a group of scientists who dealt with this problem actually said that alcohol from a social, social point of view is a bigger problem than drugs, that is, heroin. If you take the Croatian example, it means something like this: you have recorded something below 30,000 addicts in Croatia, and at the same time you have 300 thousand registered alcoholics. Usually that 300 grand is multiplying like the one with the drug times 3 to 4 so you actually see what one problem is, what other problem is. It can still be elaborated. How many families are destroyed because of alcohol, how much crime is there for alcohol, and on the other hand how much is there for drugs? So if you want even how much money goes around in one industry and the other, with one being, it has to be said, one is legal and the other is illegal. So from that point of view, British scientists, a group of them, have made an effort to prove that this story of alcohol and drugs is what it is. Interestingly, there is one sentence in that same text that everyone would have to worry about, which is that there are more legal drugs in Europe today than illegal drugs. There is actually thought of various medicines, chemical compounds, etc., etc. In fact, they have the same effect as drugs, but they're not treated like drugs. And another thing I have to react to, too, because I was thinking of saying the same thing about her. So it's a mandatory test. I think we will agree that insisting on the mandatory testing of the general population is a particularly young statement and an indication of how much we are and how helpless we are society, the state to deal seriously with this problem. Because we'll agree on that, too, that testing, especially if it's necessarily one of the key, if you want the most basic repressive measures. We're actually showing that we can't have any other effect on countering offers, that is, the pardoned demand for different narcotics. And that's actually the problem. You know what, the the thesis that we're going to do is we're going to test everything for drugs, so tomorrow we're going to test everything I don't know about alcohol, tobacco, etc., that actually shows impotence. And what is very important is the experience of some countries has shown that tests do not produce good results. Those who know something about these saws and testing know that there is no universal saw for all drugs. That different drugs are kept different in the body. Therefore, you can use one of the tests to discover one type of drug, and you can use another type of drug. And that's why the illusion that we're going to do something with testing is, I mean, it's actually an illusion. And get back to my own report. So actually what to say about that report? That report has been the same for years. And I'm actually worried about that. We keep finding depending on the year to year in some items we're 10% up, in others we're 15% down, but the fact that the problem of addiction and drug problem remains. I'm going to try to go back to what I've been saying in the last few years, proposing amendments to the Criminal Code of Article 173 especially when it comes to drug decriminalisation and the last time we talked about the Intoxication Act last year, that's when we still called it intoxicating drugs, that's when I was actually talking about it. It is about us having to radically change as a state, as people responsible for the situation in this society, the relationship to drugs and addiction. We made that little step a year ago when we changed that law, but we actually took advantage of it, we didn't take advantage of the opportunity that was being given to us. We just shut down, it took us years and years to admit that there's something called intoxicating drugs and something called stimulative drugs. So we should've and I don't know how many years to figure out the same thing that we have to burn, so that seized drug. So, I'm pleading to consider a new quality. To consider the need to go into radical changes to all the legislation that addresses the issue of drug abuse and addiction. So if you want to go with a new action plan and a new strategy. Because we're actually just finding something year after year. So now, let's say, up until a few minutes ago, we had a chance to listen to some indicators. So it's about the drop in the number of addicts. Now my question to all of you is that a positive pardon for treated drug addicts in rehab whether it's positive or not? I don't think it's a good thing it's falling. This means that less and less addicts decide to be treated in communes, and otherwise to be treated in general. A shift in drug confiscation. It's interesting if you look, you'll see which drugs have been seized. Mostly easy drugs. So, mostly marijuana and hashish. And when you look at the statistics, you'll see how much heroin, cocaine, and so on. That he doesn't count it all together. Now watch out. Why is that bad information for me? Because it seems to me that the gray zone covered by organized crime isn't covered enough. And when you get further information that 71% of all crimes are related to the famous article 173. The penal code, therefore, that it is about possession then you actually see that the Croatian repressive drug machine only fights at the level of possession. Now, why does it matter? I think it's about time we took that step. With great approval, I welcomed a statement 15 days ago and a stance delivered by Mr. Bosnjakovic's public justice minister, who said a government task force is being formed and that the decriminalisation of easy drugs is finally under consideration. I am very glad that the parliamentary majority finally realized that decriminalisation is not legalisation. I'll remind you both in the last and last campaign you accused us of being legalized and we've always talked about decriminalization. It is necessary to do so for a simple reason to open up a space for more serious drug dealing. So, as far as the Justice Minister is concerned, the government will have full support for the SDP. I'm the only one who's careful about this problem, so we can jump first, and then we'll say hop. What would that change mean? This change would mean the following, that in the legislation we will distinguish easy and heavy drugs, as we have definitely acknowledged that there are different types of drugs in view of opiates, stimulants, etc. The other thing we also have to do then, which is to distinguish the one who owns the drugs for his own use from the one who owns the drugs, has drugs for dealing and the market. Because one is a sick person and the other is a criminal. Normally, I believe the Ministry of Health is already thinking about it. Because the Ministry of Health should make a rule like that everywhere in the civilized countries of Western Europe, which is to prescribe that it is known how much drug an addict can possess and not subject to criminal persecution but subject to criminal persecution. This is very important especially is it important for minors who enter often out of curiosity or by being seduced into criminal records, and should not. I think these moves would make a big step because we could simply talk about a different quality. Until we change the Penal Code in that part until we change the Law on the Abuse of Cops, until we change the Action Plan, until we change the strategy we will not be able to talk about quality shifts, but next year we will talk about whether 10% more or less of those who have approached treatment are more or less seized light or heavy drugs. But you often get to show it and it says that actually the state of the illegal drug market is being sampled by recession, interesting cocaine. If you looked at the amount of cocaine seized, you'll see that de facto fell almost to zero. As cocaine belongs to more expensive drugs, it must have been a measure of recession. But let's not have illusions. What's written in this report actually needs to be multiplied by 3, 4 if not more. Because there's actually just what it looks like to you. If the police work more especially in this gray zone, they'll confiscate more drugs, if it works less, they'll confiscate less. Now there's one question that's worth it whether it's better for the police to seize less drugs or not? If we had systematic preventive work, I especially saw here in the report if you read the report carefully from the Ministry of Education, etc. You'll see it's all very bad. There are several projects being financed, money being given for something, several professional trainings. It can't be serious preventive work. It's a campaign, so if you want in this part where the health ministry's prevention is about the same thing. So I end up in a way that's about as sorry as I finished my presentation when we discussed 2008, think about changing the strategy think about changing the action plan. But in order to change that, we actually have to throw the fighting market on the line. So our strategy needs to be aimed at reducing demand, and we let and clean up the area by decriminalising, above all, the police and then the judiciary or the state's attorney's office to deal with serious criminal acts and major drug dealers. And if we make more of these differences that I was talking about, and they necessarily follow if we go in the direction of decriminalisation, so the criminal patient, easy, difficult, drug dealer, I think that in the report that will start from such positions and with a different action plan, we will be recorded shifts both in prevention and in the prevention of demand, but also in the supply of drugs. Until we change our approach we can't expect and let's not have any illusions that we can expect qualitative and serious forwards. I actually got a line from Mr. Secretary of State when he says this report is stable. I'm not interested in stable reports. That's exactly what I'm talking about, so we're just repeating ourselves year after year. I don't think that this type of stability is good for me, I think we need to destabilise these reports and the situation, but destabilize it in a way that ultimately makes our results better. Here, thank you very much. Once again, I hope that the initiative that came from the government the other day will be revived and that we will, in fact, become part of the European Union countries and countries outside the European Union that have otherwise joined the fight against drugs, i.e. the fight against addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62053	Thank you very much. We've got two credentials reported. Comrade Cain, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62054	I agree, Mr. Lucin, everything should be multiplied by 3 or 4, so 29 thousand, let's say, addicts times 3 or 4 de facto, we get 100 to 120 thousand addicts in the Republic of Croatia, easier or harder drugs, because surely our dealers in the way they live at this point couldn't live off only 30 thousand consumers. It's not everything, it's even 30 grand. However, I answered to correct one false quote when you said that testing children would actually turn into repression. I don't think it's any kind of repression. Is it, then, like, a repression when someone's testing someone for alcohol, say, the Martins? Watch out, and that kind of testing then turns Mr. Lucin into a repression, but I'm betting that someone in this country neither drives drunk nor can be drugged, for example. Drive. In fact, I'm trying to test the students for drugs at the earliest age because that way we can just...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62055	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62056	Children and parents and nations, and the worst ones are those gentlemen who deal those school packages or wear those packages to other kids at school. And there should be absolutely ruthless...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62057	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62058	And through tests, we and we can get to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62059	Thank you, Comrade Cain. You have expressed your opinion, and in your opinion you cannot correct the opinion of an esteemed colleague who has spoken what he thinks he should do. We've got another report of a rectification. Dear colleague Neda Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to correcting two allegations from Mr. Lucin. I hope the third one corrects the secretary of state. Mr. Lucin says we're helpless company. It's incorrect, just as incorrect if we had a systematic preventive paradise. Mr Lucin, I, in the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, pointed out that, in addition to the Action Plan on drug abuse, the National Strategy, that the National Programme was also developed in the educational system of prevention of child and youth addiction and for children and young people in the social care system for the period 2010-2014, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia 4.6 this year. This is the first document that unites strategies aimed at curbing all forms of addiction between children and young people, as well as the risky behaviour of children and young people associated with experimentation with intoxicating agents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62061	Thank you very much. Dr. Golem, the Honorable Secretary of State, came forward on behalf of the word promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I believe there may have been a misreading of one piece of information, so it would be convenient to repeat it again. Namely, the esteemed representative indicated that almost 70% of the crimes are the form of the easiest one, which is possession of drugs for its own use. That's not true. It's 70% for a minor. However, in all modes of the crime of drug abuse where 2790 adults were convicted, this relationship is not 70% and does not contribute to the thesis, it would only say in favour of the fact that they are going to decriminalisation in minors, which I think is a very dangerous thesis. It should also be said, the report given on the basis of the implementation of the Strategy shall have its own value only if there are measurable units. Measurement units are indicators to tell if anything's moving or if something's not moving. I'll give you an example. We're all talking about diabetes today, something that's also a monster of a new time, and we say that we're successfully fighting it. Our successful fight is going in the direction of treatment, but we have no technique, no cure, no... We have not been able to prevent more and more people who are suffering from diabetes. [[You don't understand.]] When we say that something is stable, some plan gives some stability then gives stability where, with deviations from +/-, it means tolerance thresholds, indicators that we've been following for years, we see that it's in the stability system and there's no greater increase. Since we've been here in the Parliament based on the National Plan and the Action Plan to fight drug abuse, ever since this report was presented, we've been saying that it's safe for us to talk about registered addicts and we can certainly agree that there are differences. But also, it's also likely that it's shrugged down, not Istria's first in number of addicts, Istria is the first in number of drug addicts treated. I'm saying, I was going to come to the end, but I'm now giving an explanation for this part of the debate that's been going on, which means it doesn't have to be a negativity, but it might be a positive one, because Istra may have made the biggest step right in the direction that as many people as possible are covered by the treatment that needs to be done. As the number of patients treated does not necessarily mean that more addicts have been formed, so that they are not treated, but just when we are looking, and when we follow the trend curves over several years and when we follow all these indicators then we see that there have been fewer people who will report to the therapeutic community if our treatment of addicts is real and successful. If we are going to have an increase in the number of addicts and an even greater increase in drug treatment, then something definitely in the treatment process is not successful. So what might be most interesting in the entire report is this. The report is not based on any statistical data, namely this is numerical data, and all the statisticians and professions agree that the percentages are not statistical criteria but are simply parallel sizes for something. And the right statistics would then clearly place it in place as it is proven in Croatia, but it is still the subject of the scientific work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62063	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote, colleague Lucin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62064	So I'm correcting the assumption that Mr. Secretary of State was correcting me on the dangers of decriminalization. If you have listened carefully to me, I will quote myself, I commended Minister Bosnjakovic and the parliamentary majority who began to talk about decriminalisation. And second of all, I mean, I'm not a doctor, but I still wouldn't dare compromise drug addiction and diabetes. I kind of do. You think diabetes gets the same thing when you're eating, too much sugar when you get it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62065	So it's a bad mix. But we're moving on. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party, distinguished colleague Marijana Petir. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The 2009 report on the implementation of the 2009 National Strategy to combat drug abuse is based on data and reports from competent ministries and other bodies of the state administration which, in part, had the obligation to implement measures and activities in accordance with the objectives set out in the 2009 National Strategy and Action Plan to combat drug abuse. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will also support the adoption of this Report. I must say that despite the intensive development of new programmes to reduce the demand and supply of drugs, including the development and implementation of measures and programmes to prevent drug addiction, early detection of drug and intervention, reduction of treatment damage, rehabilitation and social reintegration of addicts, and the focus of activities on organised drug crime. We still face new types of drugs on the market every day, and new forms of smuggling. All this points to the existence of a gray zone that is difficult to explore but which daily encourages us to make new efforts, to expose new methods particularly preventive in order to help combat drug abuse as effectively as possible. It is necessary to point out that the suppression of this socially unacceptable phenomenon is possible only through the joint coordinated action of all entities in charge of tackling the issue at both national and local level. The average age of first taking any means of addiction is unfortunately 16 years. The mean age of first heroin administration is 20.3 years, while the mean age of intravenous administration is 21.2 years. The mean age of first reporting for treatment is 26.2 years and the average age of all treated patients increased and was 31.7 years in 2009. From all this data, it is evident that addiction is not observed in time by parents, neither by schools, nor by the authorities. So, even according to these data 10 years later, since the start of the first drug use, it is certainly necessary to revise all our strategies and activities that we are carrying out and put more emphasis on prevention and education. According to the report, the number of total people treated for 100,000 from 15 to 64 years according to the counties is the highest rate treated in Istria County, followed by Zadar County and the city of Zagreb. For the Republic of Croatia, the rate is slightly higher than a year before 100000 so adults. The highest rate treated for opiate addiction to 100,000 inhabitants aged 15 to 64 also has Istria County, then Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska and the city of Zagreb. The rate of opiate addicts for the Republic of Croatia is 209.2 and 2.1, respectively, per 1,000 inhabitants. By the end of 2009, a total of 29120 people treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs by the Croatian Institute of Public Health were registered for the abuse of psychoactive drugs, representing an increase of 6.2% compared to 2008 which is extremely worrying us in the HSS club. The number of death cases of psychoactive substances, particularly due to overdose, is reduced. In 2009, 89 people died due to drug use, down 23.3% compared to 2008. The average age of deaths due to drug abuse in 2000 was 29.5 years and in 2009. 35.8 years. The average age of deaths due to overdose was 27.8 years in 2000 and 33.6 years in 2009. The ratio of men and women to dead addicts is 8:1. The deceased were treated for an average of 9 years. During the course of 2009, 7733 people were treated for the first time. The total number of drug addicts treated in 2009 increased by 2.9%, representing a slight increase, but still an increase in the number of treated subjects. The number of new users is decreasing. Namely, the proportion of new people in the system of treatment of addicts as well as the previous year continued to decrease. Compared to 2008, an increase in the number of people treated for opiates of 6.7% was observed. Data show that among the most opiate addicts treated is 3.1% more than in 2008, followed by marijuana abuse. Other funds are represented in a small part. The incidence of treatment due to opiate abuse continues to increase, but while the remaining funds were less represented, a higher number of patients treated for poly-use of addiction agents and for the use of sedatives were reported. The number of patients treated for cannabinoids is lower by 19.5%, and the number of patients treated for cocaine and stimulants is also decreasing. The total number of drug addicts who were in rehab and rehabilitation in the therapeutic communities in 2009 was 1137, representing a decline compared to 2008 and 2007. In 2009 compared to 2008, the total number of addicts decreased by 11.7% and by 16.8% compared to 2007. According to the interior ministry, a total of 7063 crimes related to drug abuse and drug trafficking were recorded during 2009 which is 10.4% less than in 2008. The average share of drug abuse crime in the overall crime in the Republic of Croatia is 9.64%, slightly less than in the last three years. A total of 5019 persons who committed those offences were reported in 2009 which is 3.9% less than in the previous reporting period. In 2009, 4552 infringements were filed against 4500 persons representing a 2.21% decline in infringements compared to 2008. In 2009, two thousand 790 adults, 12.3% less than in 2008, were convicted 18% less than in 2008. Three thousand 151 persons, i.e. 72.6% of the total number reported for Article 173, were reported for the primary crime in 2009. In 2009, we recorded a decline in the number of persons reported compared to the previous year by 24.2%, representing the minimum number of persons reported for this mode. Of course, it would be important to analyse why this is so, because we see that, obviously, for pre-election purposes again, Pandora's box, which comes out of different debates, which want to say that there are easy and difficult drugs, there are discussions through which some drugs are heard to be decriminalized, that there are drugs even for personal purposes, and sometimes these discussions act as if they are spoken by those who really have nothing to do with reality, amounting to very dangerous thesis here, mixed up in statements drawn from the context of the ruling coalition. I must say here on behalf of the HSS Club, that we believe that drugs are a 21st century monster and that we are not prone to amendments to Article 173 and that those who call for such changes should look deep into themselves and look at what is happening around them and then come up with certain proposals that can have far-reaching consequences, especially for our young people. In 2009, an action plan was adopted to combat drug abuse for the period 2009-2012, the annual implementation programme of the 2009 action plan for the prevention of drug abuse was adopted. I would like to point out from more important activities here that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, and that four burnings have also been carried out in Nasica cement during 2008 and 2009, with more than 5 tonnes of drugs burned. The implementation of resociation projects for drug addicts has continued, the state has also helped the social cooperative entrepreneurship of treated addicts, which in some ways opened the door only to the employment of treated addicts, and we welcome that, of course. In the Republic of Croatia to implement a programme to prevent drug abuse, i.e. the implementation of a national strategy to combat drug abuse and the action plan to combat drug abuse in 2009, a total of 87 million 437 thousand kuna was spent, representing an increase of 4% compared to 2008. From the 2009 county budget for the implementation of county action plans to combat drug abuse, around 12 million kuna were allocated, up 34.3% more than in 2008. Total spending from the state budget and county budgets amount to around 100 million kuna, representing an increase of 6.8% compared to the previous year. In the debate on this report, I'd like to tell the young people on behalf of the HSS Club that the drugs are not in. Annually, between 80 and 150 young people die from drug abuse. Our position in the HSS is that it is necessary to conduct a wider education of children, young people and parents on the causes and consequences of taking the means of addiction. The role of the school should also be strengthened, especially as the age limit has fallen to that age group. Unfortunately, we still do not have health education in schools, which would warn young people about the harmfulness of smoking, alcohol, and drugs. More care should be taken about the mental health of young people, as well as the cooperation of schools and parents, who should first see that their child is not well. Parents also need help and education to protect our families from drug monsters, which, if affected by one family member, covers the whole family in black. What kind of society will we be and what state we will be if the most important link in that chain becomes the weakest link. Therefore, we at the HSS Club are in favour of stronger prevention and education, but also of stronger prosecution of drug dealers who today, according to this report, are still clearly stronger than our entire legal system, and we have to fight against it. While they earn blood money, 30 thousand families in Croatia are directly dragged into hell of drugs, and that should end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62067	Thank you, dear colleague Petyr. State Secretary Ante Golem came forward for the word. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So I'm in, yet I apologize for throwing the bench away, because I believe that on behalf of the promoter I absolutely need to explain certain things again that are probably misunderstood. When I said at the moment, and I'm sorry that there's no agent here right now, but when I said it could be a dangerous thesis, I said that it was a dangerous thesis to base on the fact that 70% of those reported for the most minor form of crime before the possession of drugs for their own use, that it would be some argument for the possible decriminalization of drugs, in any form, then I said it on that particular part, because that data was first not correct, because we're saying that for these modes others were convicted. However, by doing so out of context then we got another one here where I have to say on behalf of the promoter clearly and loudly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and myself as part of the Government, or a member of that Government at the level of the State Secretary, has not initiated any procedure for decriminalising any kind of drug. From the day it can be looked at in the records from all these sessions over the past 5 years, since 2005, I have personally presented reports to this House, and every time, it is one constant as it is said that this report is a constant, so someone's discussions were constant, every time we said in this debate clearly and loudly, if we want to give a clear message that something is not acceptable to young people, then we can't talk about something easy and difficult, because in the definition of addiction there are no easy and difficult, there are addictions or addictions. For this simple reason, you can't, therefore, I appreciate that maybe someone read or out of context, you're not in this way like I said pulled out statements or statements in the media, but in any case what needs to be said responsibly, so it's not about any decriminalization of any drugs that exist. What I still have to explain, one other thing, the ministry is not working on a regulation that would solve something, which is a level of personal need or not a level of personal need, because I will remind you in 2002, in 2003, there was a rather sound judicial dispute that was medialy well followed. Then the person accused of just dealing drugs,... explained how it was done. [[You don't understand.]] This was done in a way that they packed in extremely small packages, packages up to a gram and a half, that these packages were held in trash baskets on the Borongaj turn and that they were dealing so much that each time they were carrying one package, means a package for needs. To bring the rulebook in advance knowing that we can write it for one milligram, half a milligram, ten milligrams, whether you talk about the amount, knowing that the hole is in it right away, means to allow it to be legally resolved that if you and the dealer you have reliable indications that it deals with and who you have a record of dealing with and that the judiciary will conduct its own proceedings independently of anything we say exclusively by law that treats him for his personal needs. So, even this law that we're very hard to deal with, we all know it, we'd still make it better to match those who are on the side that we're fighting in all of this. For this reason I repeat, and I will always represent the thesis, stand here in front of you, that thesis that was and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no easy and difficult drugs, there are only addictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62069	Thank you. We have one application for correction of the quote, dear colleague Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62070	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that of the five of us as far as we were saying four, as I understand it, and I heard Mr. Secretary of State misread this report. Then I'd believe more if the report were actually misspelled. And it is not you who, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who should determine in the event of a change of legislation whether something is for their own purposes or not, should already be a court, as far as I know. The government, or the Ministry of Health, should only prescribe a regulation. And now I'm going back to the beginning. Mr. Secretary, then defuse Minister Bošnjakovic's public office because there is simply a public confusion. I didn't make it up, and I wasn't called by some phantom journalists to comment on his statement. So now I don't know anymore, I really thought it was an attitude, that it was an official attitude. Obviously, I see now that this is not an official position, but until we get an official denial, I continue to welcome the position of Minister Bosnjakovic, or the government's initiative to go towards drug decriminalisation. And one sentence, look at the rule book in Austria, and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62071	Thank you, colleague Lucin. It's time to apply for individual debates. They also expired, i.e. we have absorbed all applications by the clubs. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, and the first one to sign up, distinguished colleague Romana Jerkovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62072	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My first comment is about the fact that we're discussing the 2008 report, excuse me in 2009, and now we're at the end of 2010. It's kind of become a used practice, and I don't think it's good. That there's no reason to discuss the report at the end of the year. I think our National Strategy is not bad, I think it's talking about that there's a national awareness of a very big problem, about the need to tackle this problem, about the way we're going to do something, about the way we're going to stand up for it and fight it. However, both the best strategies and the best laws and the best action plans are infrequently broken about the harsh reality, and therefore, in my deep conviction, this report should speak much more than some naked statistics, or I apologize, and here's the secretary of state has just taught us that what we see is not statistics but numerical data. Another would be scientific, like you said, yes. Okay, well, I'll stick with that. So, I don't think this report on drug abuse should talk so much about numerical data, and at the same time it doesn't talk about anything else, which is how we report, how the experience from the previous year used us to change things. So, what problems we've seen, what we hold to change, how we're going to change it, because I don't think there's anything written in either the National Strategy or the Holy Scriptures action plan if it shows that it doesn't work in practice. And it doesn't work. I don't have to convince you too much. Here, look at the numerical data. Every year we say the same thing, every year we get a raise. Mr. Secretary of State calls it stability, but it would be good to explain it to that very desperate number of parents who don't know what to do and how to do with their children. So we're discussing the 2009 report at the 11th month, and you've really had plenty of time to believe that at the end of the report you're giving us an extra special contribution. Take a step and tell us what this report has done for us and what we have concluded and decided to change on the basis of it. This is made up of 180 pages, I don't know how many graphs, table wonders one thing, and it seems like someone really tried. I wouldn't really want to underestimate the effort, but I don't think it's worth as much here as possible. And I really support a colleague who spoke on behalf of the SDP club that this report should be conceived differently. I understand that this report is the result of how we work. And that's what it's really about. This problem should be approached differently, I believe, and then this report would look different. So in this data forest, numerical data is very difficult to find an answer to a question like what in the Republic of Croatia is doing to prevent and how much of the budget is allocated to prevention? Have we identified some of the programmes implemented locally as an extremely successful programme that we will propose to be used at national level as well? I know he's got programs like that. It's the training of life skills we spent in the Primorian-Gorski County that gave phenomenal results. We have been spending it for many years, and it has shown that those schools that have entered such a program, thus training the skills in which young people are taught how to be self-aware and strong, how to resist all that today presents a challenge in today's world and life. Thus, such young people have proved to be much more challenging to challenges such as alcohol, such as drugs, such as smoking, etc. It's very hard to get an answer from this report to the question of what we're doing with young experimentators? What are we doing on the early discovery of addicts? How much do we spend on these activities? Are there programmes at national level in this regard? What local projects or county support do we have? Are we satisfied with the work of the County Centers for Combating Addictions that passed five years ago into the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Health? Do we intend to establish a state commune? So today we have situations where parents raise mortgages to get their children to rehab in a foreign community or here where they also cost money. So we have to deal with this problem differently as a society. What are we doing in resociation or rehabilitation and resociation? What programs do we implement in this regard? And were those programs successful in 2009? If they're not, let's change them because they're meant for people. If they don't use our citizens, they don't make any sense. So, the numerical data that this report is filled with is of course necessary, but let's not lead them to absurdity and let's not end up misusing it. They need us to be aware of how much a problem the problem is, we have to use numbers to try to express it. But he serves us to monitor the effects of what we do. So the numerical data tells us or should tell us how successful we are in the programs, in the projects that are being implemented, how successful we are in prevention. So, to say that the data is stable for me is not to understand the essence of things. I think we all know very well together at what levels we have to act to bring this problem down to the smallest possible measure in the future. And I think that all of us here as long as we know it's prevention and that's the primary prevention that involves action and action at a time when the problem of addiction still doesn't exist in a young person. So this prevention allows young people to be objectively informed about drugs and their health effects, long before it comes into a situation whether drugs give or do drugs. So there's one study recently done in Osijek that shows that young people at age 12 start with inhalers and marijuana, when they're 15, they've already tried heavy drugs. But research shows that 90% of 15-year-olds believe that the environment needs to be better informed about drug toxicity and that they want to get that information in their schools. In other words, to conclude that they don't get them in their schools. And here I stand by the claim that school prevention programs are not implemented in all schools. They don't go through for different reasons, but that's something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62073	Thank you very much. We have a report of a replica. Dear colleague Shime Luchin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62074	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it's not just the problem that this report is the way it is. It doesn't matter if they're numerical indicators or whether they're statistical. But I'm more concerned with the interpretation. Let's face it, the Secretary of State has made an effort to convince the public that it's not 71% of all criminal charges for possession. Air-conditioning secretary general that he's not. I'll read it. "According to the State's Attorney's Office's data, the movement of the number of persons reported for the criminal offence referred to in Article 173 shall take place. In the last three years, the penal code has seen a decline in numbers reported by all age groups. In total drug crime, the crime of drug possession referred to in Article 173 is 71.7%." Two paragraphs lower "youngers are a little over 76.7%". Now I don't understand why we're trying to show something different than it is. Obviously something in this story is wrong and that's what I just want to show and show. I'll remind you, a year and a half ago from the government's Office of Drug Control also came an initiative to decriminalize easy drugs. It ended in such a way that professional people from the office who are doing this job got by the fingertips and then reset. Now I don't know, I still hope that something when you say in government that actually shows that you're thinking seriously and you're going to do something. It is not for this and for our journey to the EU, and so on, because it is for most European countries, but for our own sakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62075	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62076	Thank you very much. I couldn't agree more with you, colleague Lucin. I'm going to use this replica to tell you about an absurd thing you might have read about yourself. And he speaks very clearly of how some times the system really doesn't work. And it doesn't work on behalf of those and for those for whom it should work. Imagine the absurdity of a drug dealer who fell because he tried to sell 15 thousand euros worth of heroin to an undercover cop. And you know what the decision was in that court, he says, "The dealer asked the county judge to cover the cost of getting heroin she accepted, and the Supreme Court confirmed it as a good decision." So what we can figure out is, he really got paid for the investment. So it makes you wonder who's crazy here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62077	Thank you. We also have a report for two corrections. Dear colleague Gyurjica Sumrak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would correct the inaccuracies of my colleague in the part where he says that there is no idea how much the Croatian state is devoting to the prevention of drug protection. Well, that's exactly what Mr. Secretary of State said, in the Republic of Croatia to implement the programme, so that's part of the campaign, the programme, which is very important, prevention and prevention of abuse, 87 million and 437 kuna were spent in 2009, which means an increase of 4% compared to 2008 and the total of counties and states invested in such programmes and projects 99 million. What's important is the same thing as what's incorrect, and you said there's no one in the lowest means of levels, so from children, from children, from kindergarten and schools there is. It is we, I think, who voted in this House on 4 June 2010 the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth in the Educational System and children and young people in the social care system for the period until 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62079	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62080	I personally know, excuse me just a second, that a lot of campaigns are working on it, stop drugs, not drugs, which is very important. Estrous singers are included, artists who were meant to be in this hell, and they were treated and it is very important and positive. And I really agree that there are no easy and heavy, but they're just drugs and drinking, and whoever didn't get to know that problem can really advocate decriminalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62081	Thank you, colleague. Your time is up. And the application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Jerkovic said that numerical data is being misused and that the essence of things is unknown. Well, it's absolutely incorrect, who would normally abuse such data. The other thing, that you don't know the essence of things is that you fight for every life because the mortality in that population is far greater than in the same age. And you mentioned, of course, the implementation of the Action Plan and the Strategy. And the other thing you mentioned was prevention, of course and prevention as such at all levels, so from schools, education, of course the Ministry of the Interior and the Department of Public Health, etc., absolutely prevention, but not in the way of legalising easy drugs as advocated on your part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62083	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62084	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I have to express my personal satisfaction that I was first in line after clubs and this single debate in which most colleagues and colleagues here on behalf of clubs and in an individual debate expressed negatively about the report delivered. So I'm gonna start by saying I'm gonna support this report and I'm gonna commend it, and I'm gonna say why. The 2009 report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, which the Government delivered to the Parliament for discussion and adoption, confirms the seriousness of the approach and the high professional work of all Croatian state institutions in charge of combating this monster of the modern world, headed by the Committee for the Prevention of Drug Abuse to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. And for that, I will also show my regret that today he is not also the head of the Government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, not diminishing the importance and role played by the Secretary of State. The data provided by this 10th edition of the report by the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and the National Coordinator in charge of encouraging and directing all relevant authorities to combat drug abuse, both at national and local level, shows the achievement of two main objectives: the reduction of supply and drug demand, which can be satisfied with the extent to which reports which are comprehensive, transparent and quality both in the formal and content parts. I initially said that we accept this report and that I am satisfied with it because it is an indicator that only coordinated work can be achieved by all state authorities in charge of combating drugs so that national and local authorities can achieve these results, and the results are stability in the system. So the report is not the same, I know that it is difficult for some colleagues and colleagues to read 178 pages of this report, but the report is not the same, the report is critical enough in the fight against drug abuse, giving measures and indications even though it deals with all that the state has done in this area over the past year, giving initiatives, indicating the problems it needs to solve. And on the other hand, this report is a confirmation not only of coordinated work but also of things not changing overnight. I said in the introduction that this is the 10th time this is a concise report with indicators that we can be satisfied with to a certain extent. I can't agree with those who said we didn't make it because there's no increase in the treatment. I think the secretary of state in his reply well said that every new treatment that entered the system, and those in the last year were less, was the extraction of those individuals from the gray zone, and each one treated in the system registered more is the extension of life to those who are addicted to drugs, and for which the system or state is concerned in a certain way. I am very sorry that my colleagues did not notice that in the past year, the year of the economic crisis and recession in which Croatia was found, the means to combat drug abuse have not been reduced, however, have been increased. They increased as much as at the state level, so from the state budget by 4%, they were increased equally from the county budget, so the total increase in funding was 6.8%, so around 90.5 million kuna was spent last year from the county and state budget. What I want to say and point out is that the number of increases is 34% of the increase in the fight-out, the programmes in the fight against drug abuse at the county level is certainly the result of the implementation of both the National Strategy and the action plan in which the county's commissions play an important role. But I am clearly stressing here again on coordinated work. When we look at the number of people treated according to certain provinces of addicts, then we know that 258.9 are therefore reduced to 259 people per 100,000 residents aged 15 to 64 is the average at Croatia level. Seven counties have a higher average. So when we look at the increase in separation, how much the local community is interested in and how much it helps and helps to fight these monsters, that's not what we're talking about. So those who have the highest number of treated addicts are not equal in all these 7 counties, or not equal. And the separation range is really from 20 county budgets from 22,000 to 3 million, more than 3 million kuna, as far as I can see from the Primorje-Gorski County. I think we can also be satisfied with the reduction in the number of deaths in the past year from 116 in 2008. That number was held at 89 in 2009. I won't repeat that every lost life is equally worth it, or that it's a shame. But I think this is also an indicator of the success that is being seen in the prevention system and everything else shows this coordinated and comprehensive work by all the institutions of the system. We said that in last year, or 2009 that it was in Croatia, so the organizations and the therapeutic communities acted alongside these institutions. In Croatia, there were 8 treatment communities with 32 therapeutic houses. I ask the Secretary of State and those who worked this report to repair the data on page 49, so that instead of the tables there is 24 which gives the county distribution of therapeutic houses, that instead of 12, there is written 11 county and the city of Zagreb on which the therapeutic communities and the therapeutic houses are spread, in place of the community meeting is corrected and that the Brod-Posavina County is normally the therapeutic community meeting, i.e. the Ivanovac therapeutic house in the municipality of Occupied to attribute it to that county in whose area it is located, which is Brod-Posavina County, which thus contributes to the implementation of the National Programme, National Strategy and Action Programme for the fight against drug abuse. I'll support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62085	Thank you, colleague. We've reported several replicas. First of all, dear colleague Kundić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62086	Dear colleagues Susana Bilić Vardic. Here it is, offered by this extraordinary debate of yours, which is a very good picture of our situation. I am also referring to your opinion that this is an extremely high-quality report because we are not in a study of literature, but we are unfortunately at an analysis of the situation that is very difficult and very problematic when we talk about drug addiction. Of course, a numerical representation of this situation is necessary, because that way we can combine the difference between years, so between last year, this year and the shifts that are being achieved, and they're dared to say phenomenal. I'll point out just a few more colleagues to what you didn't say to supplement you, so you don't stay in the air, and that's this. This year, meaning June 4th, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth in the Educational System of Social Care for the period 2010-2014. No matter how dry it sounds, I'll keep going. This is the first document that combines preventive strategies aimed at curbing, preventing the emergence of all forms of addiction among children and young people, and the risky behaviour of children and young people related to experimenting with means of addiction, which includes prevention of drug addiction, alcohol, smoking, the Internet, betting and other types of child addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62087	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Bilić Vardić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62088	Dear Kundić, thank you for reminding me of the part I didn't talk about even though there was talk about. I will also use this opportunity to commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption and this document, which I am sure has been made part of the Report provided by the Government Office for Drugs Control. Because there are days of conditions, there is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports giving its Reports on the measures implemented, on the programmes implemented in schools. And to wish for a clear success in the implementation of this document of government, although I am sure that so far in schools and in the education system in the Republic of Croatia there have been a number of preventive programmes which, as some have said, have not been implemented in all schools, here is now this document that will oblige all schools, so that all students in the prevention system not only in the fight against drugs but also other addictions are available and that their full success.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62089	Thank you very much. A prominent colleague, Romana Jerkovic, also appeared after the replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62090	Dear colleagues, I must say that I agree with your first sentence from all of your presentation, which is when you said you would support this report. And I'm going to support it, but everything else you said is really very, very hard for me to accept. And that's why I've replicated it to you, because it seems to me that maybe you've even been confused and you're about to get right in your replica now. You said that the death toll, that with the death toll, we could be satisfied. I'd get a little chilly from the number of dead colleagues, because the truth is that in 2009, there were a certain percentage of less deaths than in 2008, but in 2009, over 80 young people died, 80 and some lives, so that's in school grade 3 and a half, 4 classes. It's awful to me. To me, I can't possibly be satisfied with that information. You said this was about the government's success, the success of the program. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think that's exactly what we're saying, how unsuccessful we are, how not good it is, it's not a good way to work, and we have to change things. So the number of deaths is practically increasing from year to year. The number of people who are on amphetamines is increasing. From the first drug use to treatment, it's been 6 to 7 years. Well, that's a terrible piece of information. So this stability that you're talking about and the stability that you're satisfied with, it's completely discouraging for me, and it shows that we need a whole new approach to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62091	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of counterpart Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62092	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerkovic, I understand that you cannot, that you cannot be satisfied with this report, but nice of you to support it. And thank you for warning me, if that's what I sounded like, and now I repeat that in the fight for every life saved and extended, and I said that when I said that the number of deaths in the last year shows the success of the implementation of all the measures for which, national strategies and action plans, because fellow dear I understand very well what every life means, I come from a city where a class of students died during the Homeland War, when you're already comparing these with the class, 27 children in Slavonski Brod died in the Homeland War. Therefore, I know very well what a preserved life is, how valuable it is, not only for the family but also for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62093	Thank you. An esteemed colleague, Lesar, applied for the replica. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62094	Dear colleague Bilić Vardić, you started your discussion by finding satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the report, and indeed most of the debate was on whether someone was satisfied, dissatisfied, or less satisfied with the report, but it was not exactly a good approach for me when we discussed this topic. It is not the essence of whether one of us is satisfied with the text of the report, but whether we are satisfied with the results of implementation and plan and action, whether we are satisfied with the results. It'll be a useful discussion, not paper. I'm partially satisfied with the report, I'll say why not, but when you read it, it says everyone did everything. Okay. Is that maximum? Is there anything to change, to improve, to organize, to secure more money? Was there at least one leak somewhere that might be even better? That's what I resent the report. I understand the authors of the report that they point out positive things, but in such reports I always go first to look for what they propose to Parliament and make it even better. And finally, Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for being here, but I believe that the drug addiction problem is not only a public-health problem, I resent your colleagues from the police, the judiciary, the state's attorney's office, and the education that you're not here, because this is a united report of the activities of all these state bodies, and I just can't believe that the Ministry of Education doesn't care what we think, that it doesn't interest anyone in the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the State's Attorney, and I'm particularly surprised that there's no one in the Government's office in charge of these matters. I think it's rude to treat us, because if anyone here is supposed to be sitting with you, if everyone else has no interest in hearing us, then the head man of the government's office is supposed to be here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62095	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62096	Comrade Lesar, I will repeat that, otherwise I thank you for the replica, but I will repeat that 180 pages of the report should be sat down and read and studied, and then, then, there would be no objections to your standing in this report, not to point to problems, not to indicate shortcomings, as well as not to give initiatives and suggestions for future solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62097	Thank you. A distinguished colleague colleague, Nevenka Marinovic, also reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62098	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Susan, I'll agree with you with most of your exposure. I will use this replica to look back on the media-exposed topic, here from Zadar County in the past 15 days, namely Hope Association, it is a parent-treated drug group, which requires that methadone be taken under surveillance, means even substitution therapy, but also the opening of a detox unit in Zadar. Here's the thing is that there's a large number of treated addicts right in Zadar County. But that's what I have here opposed to a kind of opinion, so with this replica I want to somehow open these questions, or try to hear other opinions. I wonder if it's true that some addicts, but doctors also say they're harder off methadone than off heroin. And the second question, is there a... medicines given on a prescription and among them is this methadone. [[You don't understand.]] Is that why here I read in the media recently, in the U.S. that more people consume methadone than they're all consumed by heroin and cocaine together. And here today there has been a lot of debate about somehow consequences and so, and it seems to me that prevention always fails and that much more should be done in the family, perhaps taking care of that that the limit of growing up is much lower, and that parents are most often unprepared that their child has grown up already at age 11, 12, to have difficulty dealing with exactly that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62099	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished colleague Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62100	Thank you. I agree with you that the prevention that the best fight against drug abuse is just a prevention that should not go to school alone, i.e. in preschool, it should start from the family. I hope you did not expect and commend, I commend your interest in this problem by presenting the problem that arises in your county, in Zadar County and Zadar from which you come with a large number of addicts and with questions that family, or mothers of addicts ask. But, Mr. Secretary of State, I am sure that the question of whether methadone is a drug abuse should be answered by the profession, and fellow Marinović to you is an honor that you are doing in this way to solve the problem that bothers your county in this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62101	Thank you very much. We are continuing the debate, and it is up to the distinguished colleague Shime Lucin. Here's your colleague, Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62102	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with those who think the Parliament is no place to discuss whether or not methadone therapy. There are even experts who disagree, but if we are talking about it then we must have that social dimension not only medically. However, what I would like to emphasise, and what I didn't have time to say on behalf of the club, so let's say this - suppose that the harmonisation of the Penal Code, Article 173, is a condition for the closure of Chapter 23 on the judiciary and imagine that within a month we find ourselves in a situation where we have to adopt one of the possible variations of amendments to the Penal Code of Article 173. I don't believe that's a condition, but I guess so. My question to you, especially to you, who, even after your minister's statement of decriminalization, re-equates decriminalization and legalization. Well, imagine that. So, if we're already talking about the fact that there are no easy and heavy drugs. So, that may be the crown argument that I would argue on and on which I would dare argue that this is a space and an example where politics, so this Parliament, and then if you want, the government won't listen to the profession. I would also like the state's attorney, head of criminal police, head of the office, several major doctors who deal with addiction in Croatia, so experts, let's say even the minister of justice. I assure you that all those who know this problem well enough know what to do. After all, it wouldn't be our invention to admit that we have light and heavy drugs. So to deny that there are easy and heavy drugs that look about like this – like to say that aspirin and some kind of antibiotic are the same medicines, to be used for the same purposes, etc., etc. I don't know if there's any need for me to list to you all the countries have legalized easy drugs that you don't think exist for therapeutic purposes? Everywhere in the world is a crime of heavy drugs, everywhere in the world, but easy not. Now, we in Croatia don't talk about it in the Croatian Parliament, we're talking about decriminalisation. Now, why don't I know you won't agree to that? I don't understand. Here, so read from a few years ago you have reports from the state's attorney, so you have some views expressed in various public appearances of people from the crime police dealing with this business. They are simply stifled with the fight against addicts, or those who own drugs. And they have no space or material resources left to fight organized crime because they have to deal with addicts. And that all comes from us not admitting that there are easy and heavy drugs and we're not going to admit that there's a difference between those who deal and those who are patients, who are addicts, who need to be treated, and not closed to get statistics. Because statistics were those and numerical indicators don't really mean anything. And one life, let alone 90 lives, is too much to be lost at year level because of drug abuse. So, I'm pleading again, but I'm actually going to suggest something. Why this Parliament, we avoid often, here we go through some committee, why don't we actually hold on to a professional debate, here we go. We're all here talking about this topic from different points of view which are mostly ideological or secular as you like, why don't we just call it, like I said, professional people who deal with this problem to explain to us what drugs are, what are the differences, whether it's different or not, like you say, whether it's better to decriminalize, whether it's better to legalize etc. You see, while we're still here, I don't know how many years or eight years after, so since the last attempt to change the KZ, not the last, one of the last 2003s, we're trying to figure out if there's any light and heavy drugs, whether we should decriminalize or not, we have a bigger and bigger problem. I don't know, maybe someone like this is satisfying the kind of report where it's nice to count, so you can see how much money we've allocated for that fight, etc. However, there are no more serious shifts, no more serious shifts. And until there's more serious movement I can't agree to settle with reports like this. I'm not really interested in the report. I'm interested in the problem. I don't know why the government office or the government itself has made no conclusions based on this report, written proposals, opinions that should be done to make it better. Or maybe the government and it pleases you on that side too, as it says in this report, but it doesn't satisfy me. It doesn't please me. And it won't satisfy me until the moment I see that serious steps have been made. So we can deal with as much as we want with whether or not this is done, whether it's right or it's right, whether it's easy, whether it's difficult, whether it's legalisation, whether it's decriminalisation, but while we're having this problem expressed, and until we understand that we have to radically approach, radically in a different way to solve this problem, nothing will happen. I actually had an idea when I spoke on behalf of the club to read my discussion from a year ago. And then I actually realized that it doesn't make sense even though it's in one part of the same discussion as that, but I didn't want to use the same words. But I'm sure all of you who've discussed it so far are about your discussions the same way you did a year ago. Now why do we repeat as parrots every year the same thing? I don't get it. I don't think that's what taxpayers pay us for. Tax bonds pay us to try to open up some space to solve some problem. But obviously she hasn't matured yet. Finally, I must tell you that I hope for the Minister of Justice and his statement and that this problem, regardless of the different views and views, will actually be resolved, i.e. that at least a slight shift or step will be better said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62103	Thank you, colleague Lucin. A distinguished colleague colleague, Bagaric, appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lucine, our differences in the attitude of drugs, heavy, easy and decriminalism, I don't use the wrong term and I don't mean legalization, but decriminalization is simply the difference in attitude. So, I'll always stay in the belief that decriminalizing something is actually a shame with greater consequences. If I believe that, then I'll certainly be against it all the time. It is known that drugs start in a way that someone tends to get drunk, smoke, try some psychoactive substance for the first time, and then eventually they grow into what they grow up to be. It's also known that I don't know from the first time I've taken a substance like that until I get to the hospital for ten years. It is also known that since this year in Croatia and kindergartens, they will be working on prevention when it comes to taking and giving lessons in terms of the harmfulness of taking psychoactive substances and identifying children who may be exposed to this phenomenon the next day. So, it's not that the problem is he's the problem but he's an irrelevant problem to me that there's not even the judiciary or I don't know who's stuck with this and that, but it's a much bigger problem that actually those who are taking now easy drugs tomorrow will almost certainly be largely or most of them recruited for the heavy and heavy and with the big and the big consequences. And that's actually a question that we need to talk about, and none of us here in a certain way is asking each other traps of a guy, which means what's in a country, how they have other countries, whether they've introduced this or that rule, etc. the system's efficiency should be considered. So if we've noticed that this system is yet we've noticed still with all the problems effective. Effective in terms of dealing with this problem, let's say that we have in statistics that I don't know how to reduce and when looking at the number of patients being treated and newly discovered patients etc. So the system controls the situation and needs to be welcomed in that sense. My support for this report and for all those who deal with this issue in this regard. And final. The most important thing is never to start, so the most important thing is that no one will ever take drugs unless they've ever taken the first pie. So that first time should be prevented. And the contribution to not taking a substance for the first time is certainly not to decriminalize easy drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62105	Thank you. The answer to my colleague Lucin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62106	My colleague Bagariæ the difference between me and you is next. Which I'm trying to suggest because I don't think this is a good situation. I'm not satisfied with this stable situation. No, no. I don't know. I'm not sure. Look, I made a suggestion. I didn't suggest that I pulled it out of my finger, but because I was reading literature, which I had specifically met with that problem, and I learned something about it. And I'm actually suggesting it, and you don't accept it. So don't make the worst of it if we're satisfied with this status quo. They're no traps, no pranks. You see, you're starting again from one thesis that the problem is if someone set a joint on fire that's the way to addiction. That's true, let me tell you two years ago, research done or three in Croatia has shown that 30% of high school students tried drugs. By that logic, you actually know how many addicts I'd have? And you know the story of testing the Italian Parliament. Well, then we'd all be junkies if your thesis were correct. That addiction and addiction are the same, it's not true. That everyone who smokes and drinks goes to drugs. This would mean that 300 thousand alcoholics he has registered in Croatia are actually junkies today. That's not true. It's not my invention, it's not my story, it's a matter of profession. Actually, that's what I'm talking about. Don't listen to the other side that's against you politically. Let's make a deal, let's organize a round table and call. You call the experts, I said from these spheres. So imagine what they'll tell you ask the head of the government's office. He said that in public two years ago. Ask what the Chief of CRIME Police will tell you, etc. So, okay, if that doesn't satisfy you, make a counterproposal, I can't be satisfied that next year there are 85 dead and that we find it a success because this year 89 doesn't satisfy me. That's where we differ.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62107	Thank you. Let's just calm down a little bit longer. A prominent colleague, Romana Jerkovic, appeared in the replica. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62108	You have the right to colleague Lucin when you say that this report is full of absurdities and data that I really don't know what Parliamentarians mean to us today when we're discussing not the naked figures, we're discussing the National Strategy today. Today we are discussing whether she is good or not, and whether everything she implies has come to life or not. I found an absurd on page 113 talking about drug addicts, so they're divided by sex, so prisoners, prisoners, if they're on methadone, whether they're on Saturday. I mean, really absurd. And as if we will not admit that drugs are today a huge danger to the development of younger generations and that it is high time for professionals, for continuous and well-organised activities and programmes that are consistent with needs and reality. This debate seems to indicate that we are indisputable optimists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62109	There's no need to answer that. 13.30 passed. I'm taking a break and we'll continue at 3:00 with an individual discussion. The first one is a colleague of Goran Heffer's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62110	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to discuss the 2009 report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62111	Thank you very much, Your Honor. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62112	You've been called what I can do. ... Well, I've called you well... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, look at the time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've called you nicely... Well, I know, so you haven't heard from me. What can I do for you now? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll see what happens to your case later. Here you go, Mr. Kunst. ... Ask forgiveness and repentance, perhaps the Parliament feels sorry for you so consider what Mr. Bauk would say to his colleague, restitute ad integrum, a return and do not throw up in your previous state. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But we'll figure it out when Mr. Kunst says it. ... We'll assume that you've been in an indelible delusion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62113	Thank you very much. As for this report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse, it's okay and I don't think there's any reason not to accept it. However, there is no satisfaction in the area of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, there are still not enough effective measures in Croatia to prevent and stop the number of drug dealers and drug addicts in the Republic of Croatia. In my view, unfortunately, the police are still not effective enough in that area, and especially in that part of the neighborhood, police officers have not passed the exam successfully and have fulfilled their purpose. Unfortunately, they often bypass the dealing and gathering venues, and I also pointed out that when we had our first debate about this, that is, when we had a discussion last year about this report. Data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health only identify those who opt for treatment of addiction and there is a positive registered slight growth in 2009 compared to 2008. But I think these data are far from the Croatian set made up of unregistered addicts and drug dealers. I believe that it is insufficient to take and act in the field of public propaganda on drug toxicity and the necessity of treatment. It also seems insufficient to prevent dependence on pupils from primary and secondary education. I also believe that the police still do not take the problem of drug dealing and drug consumption seriously enough in this country and do not experience it because the public does not even know about some major actions in which the police broke the drug lord as it was a year ago, I think, published somewhere as police in Serbia did. So we don't have any major actions, arrests of these drug dealers, drug dealers, and the crackdown of that junkie. As far as the driver is concerned, they don't actually get tested for drugs anymore, possibly in case of accidents, then the police check it out. The problem of workers who are addicted to knowing almost nothing, and I talked about it last year when the 2008 report was and then I pointed out, and now again I'm going to have to propose programmes to help employees who are addicted to drugs and who are under the influence of intoxicating drugs in the workplace, and unfortunately there are more and more people in Croatia who are saddened by it. All in all, in the Republic of Croatia, all institutions and associations should be far more aggressively involved in the fight for the prevention of dealing and addiction and prevention of this social disaster that I call social non-socials. That's it, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62114	Thank you. Mr. Representative, what shall we do with you? Like in the Roman arena after the gladiator was shot down, so Emperor Augustus or Nero was showing off with his thumb what to do with the Parliament in this case should we do this one way or the other? Most of the thumbs are facing up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to have to practice the speed of running into the future because a pretty short number of seconds went from calling to running. All right. Since I have said in the previous replica that I am partially satisfied with the report, I have expressed my dissatisfaction that there are not representatives of other bodies here, which I believe should be, which even for the implementation of the entire programme and by the content are far more busy than health care itself. In my debate, I'd like to warn you of the following. The report shows that in 2009 for all forms of prevention, counselling, withdrawal and treatment local, regional self-government and state authority spent just over 99 million kuna Mr. Secretary of State if I am right, 99 and a half of this figure is spinning somewhere. It's a little bit more than a year before 4.8% or 4.3. It is a significant money and is a great money that, unfortunately, all countries must invest in their own ways, their anti-dependence programmes. For example, if we could spend that money on the prevention of some other diseases, we would probably all agree that they would be smarter and more meaningful. But we fight with 99 million and fight for a market of about a billion kuna. I asked for it in the report, but I couldn't find it. I may have overlooked several pages given these 7700 registered addicts. That's addict's data. There are no consumables included, 7735. If the people of the police were here, they would agree with me that the right numbers would come up and come up by one standard in Europe accepted that the number of registered numbers is multiplied by five. This means that in Croatia, we could speak of about 40,000 addicts of consumers, occasional users, weekend users, which means that annual consumption or the amount of money that revolves on the drug market goes up to a billion kuna. I'll repeat that data to a billion kuna. Of course, the untaxable, of course later washed, washed in different ways, and there lies the answer to the question why the drug machine is so well organized, why it cares terribly about infiltrating and the institutions of the system, especially the repressive apparatus to have as much free market as possible. If, therefore, we go from having a huge amount of money and that they do not exceed either the use and use of and other crimes in achieving their objectives of liquidation, murder, threats, mutual accounting, but also the frequent disqualification, planting and accounting of those who are on the other side of the investigation, we have witnessed a number of examples that were falsely foretold and accused of investigating or accused agents to disqualify them and remove them from the job. And just in that fact of huge capital that's being read, I believe that so far invested money in that part of prevention or demand reduction measures could be called satisfactory. But is enough money invested in those prevention measures that should stop the offer? First of all, I mean customs, intelligence, and police. In 2006, I first asked how many drug testers the traffic police had. She didn't have any in 2006. I think the Secretary of State or the Ministry of the Interior announced somewhere in 2008 that the Croatian police have 23 drug testers used in traffic for regular control or possibly for easier traffic accidents while the laboratory analysis method is being used more difficult. To the same extent that alcohol is dangerous in transport, drugs are also special in transport, with them missing in the statistics of earlier years because there was simply no way or condition for such control. I mentioned these traffic saws as one of the examples where we didn't provide enough money to the police to have enough equipment, so practically every police department is supplied with as many testers as there are traffic patrols. As far as the education and education sector is concerned, although there is no one here I will say that they have done the least so far and that in this sector the government is the most opportunistic and that all education prevention programmes are only a secondary activity for enthusiasts, teachers and professors, if they are provided with specific ways of education and training. In the course plan and programme of any education sector in Croatia, you have nothing to do with the lecture on prevention. Everything that has been done has been done beyond the curricula and the programme, has been done often and more with parents than children, and I cannot simply believe that 5 years consecutively no minister, nor current Fuchs, nor the one before him, have considered it necessary to answer the question in the Croatian Parliament why this part does not enter the regular curricula and programme, as children in the course of the curricula and the program learn first aid and traffic behaviour, I believe that the final moment is for that part to enter the regular system of education and education of our young people, and children who are in this system. I have also tried to appeal to the educational authority through parliamentary questions, unfortunately there is no one in that ministry who reads it. So I'm finishing my debate over saving time. Mr. Secretary of State, can you be the one to re-enhancing the power to stimulate and encourage this topic to finally become a serious one? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62116	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I don't know if we can be satisfied with any report, speaking about drugs, because it's illusory to expect that the results will be that way no matter what the report says, whether the report is well done or not, because the results are such that we have to fight with drugs all the time and that this fight will continue and it is completely uncertain of its outcome. Namely, the Croatian case is no different from any case in the world, and if there were any sense then that mind would be applied elsewhere, so it would be applied to us to experience abroad, if there was a will, and there was a will in us as I believe there is everywhere in the world, so that same problem would not be solved, if there were forms or if there were forces that could stand up to absolutely agreeing to organised crime that deals with drugs, then it would probably be in our wake either on the chain or on the road of drugs like the silk road and we could expect some positive results. So the issue of drug treatment, or the fight against drugs, can also be a political issue, but first of all, it is a social issue, which is very much to be taken into account, social because the problems of drug consumption are reflected on those who have nothing to do with drugs and in general the situation in one society. If it's organized crime, it means that there's a big business in it, and then it's expected, then it's logical to expect that it's also well organized, and that the fight against organised crime is not dependent on any single individual, no group, no country, because it's a crime that has no limitations within the borders of a country. Of course, in this I don't think we should make peace with that state, with that condition we should fight, and each of us should give one of our own contributions to that fight, help that if it doesn't stop completely, but that the dimensions of that problem are as small as possible. In this report, the most interesting detail is that it is spoken of by a state secretary who is not a lawyer, a state secretary who is not in the Ministry of Justice, and that the category that we are talking about today in the debate is actually more judicial, than what is a medical character, but in some case a resolution, the distribution of issues has come into the task of the secretary of state, doctor by calling, health by formation, because we are actually talking about a report on the implementation of a national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse, and it is quite clear that everything that this strategy says is not just the domain of one ministry, one resistor, but society as a whole. For this reason, such a report could have been submitted... Anyone from any government resort, because we're dealing with it everywhere. [[You don't understand.]] What I am particularly interested in, in the discussion of the problem of drug consumption, and which is why I actually volunteered for the debate, only at the moment when the debate started and when some colleagues expressed their views, is two moments important. One is treatment, legal treatment in terms of drug abuse or the crime of drug consumption, and drug distribution, in which I agree, where I agree that the issue of drug consumption registration, regardless of its physical weight, is easy, is as difficult, as collokiously says, I really don't think it's good that some, that some children would say for life are marked by something that may have happened, what they were caught, what they had been seduced, etc., and that this pedagogue dimension should be kept in good account, and that many categories of calling and occupations should be included, how to register it, but yes, that is how to control it, and that child doesn't remain trauma for life, that it doesn't mark it, and possibly even points to other ways. I think it is necessary to discuss this, but not a way to decriminalise it, or I don't know how much it's a legally correct formulation of a crime issue, whether it's a crime or a crime, which is a category of problems, where it's recorded, whether it should be recorded, but in any case it needs to be sanctioned in a certain way to teach future life. However, if this trip were to lead to the issue of sanctioning drug consumption, that the drugs found in someone’s own use are at a much higher risk because I don’t think car shops would be if people didn’t buy cars. Also, drug trafficking would be much smaller if there were no market for trade. So, if decriminalization, and I'm saying conditional decriminalization, and I agree with it that we shouldn't have such a criminal dimension for young people, and that's what happened once or happened, but if that's how we support the market, then we also support this business, if we support this business, then we maintain those criminal organizations that we're fighting. Therefore, my proposal for orientation should still go towards reducing the market, i.e. disabling the market, but not in the way of the old '30s America and alcohol and that it was substituted in another way. But that doesn't mean if there's something that's illegally working that if we legalize it to become legal it won't be anymore. Because it's a simple trick. I think a sentence from our Father is also very important here, if I'm allowed to say a sentence without some religious lessons, but as a thought that is very important. That prayer of prayers says, "And lead me not into temptation." I think as long as there's a market, while there's what Dalmatia would say tentacjun -- there's also the possibility of attacking that attack going down. Therefore, market reductions should also reduce these attacks, regardless of what they are and how they should be realised. I am sorry that such a strong topic, an important topic for this society, for society as a whole, for a human being today's debate in the Assembly is not as rich as I thought discussions that had a completely marginal theme, but they were politically interesting. But I don't think there are any more politically interesting topics than the topic of solving a drug problem in a society because depending on it, the state of the spirit in that society is better or worse. If the state of mind in society is better then politics could probably be better. One ignoring of a subject like this, I dare say to all my colleagues who have not been here and I think that some of the political current topics that are happening today are not as important as this. At the very least, since I've been in this assembly, this is the fourth or fifth time we've talked about the drug problem that we haven't gotten away with, but the relationship with this subject shows how much we're all aware of and how much Phariseeism there is in our speech when we're trying to fight drugs, and we're not able to be able to at least hear if we don't have what to say. I'm very different from drug possession, drug consumption and drug trafficking, but if there wasn't any consumption, there wouldn't be any trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62118	Thank you. Madam representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62119	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I must react to the Secretary of State's finding that the situation regarding dependence in Croats, as you said, is stable. I think it would be far more correct to say that the situation is stablely bad because it would be far more motivated to make additional efforts to make things better. Because we really don't have reason to satisfy even with the basis of this data from the report, and especially not if it is known that they are not complete, that they show no real extent of the problem of dependence on the ground. In 2009, Croatia was registered with a report of 6.2% more people treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs than it was in 2008. In doing so, it is interesting that the addictive population in Croatia is getting older. In the last 5 years, the average age of treated subjects has increased by 2.8 years. In women she is 30.5 years old, and in men she is 31.2 years old. I think actually that this data makes the addiction problem more serious because it is evident that the addiction problem is not primarily related to the younger population it is a growing problem older than 30 years. This is one more piece of information in hand. The number of overdose deaths was reduced from 116 in 2008 to 89 in 2009, so 23%. However, it is indicative that the average age of deaths due to drug abuse is increasing. For example, in 2000 it was 27.8 years, and in 2009 it was 33.6 years. All this forward data I'm going to try to put into the current social and economic context. In fact, an important factor in drug addiction is certainly working status. It is clear that this galloping unemployment which we have witnessed as a cumulative consequence of negative trends in the Croatian economy has a direct impact on the increase in the number of addicts, and this can be documented with the following data from this report: the percentage of people treated for drug abuse, which was 31% in 2008 in order to increase even to 39% in 2009. On the contrary, the percentage of those being treated for drug abuse and having a regular job was reduced from 37.6 in 2008 to 31% in 2009. Therefore, one link is evident between the proportion of drug addiction and the economic situation in the country that determines the material and social status of each individual. The increasing unemployment and consequently exacerbated material status will result in an even more massive escape from such a reality into an imaginary drug world. How difficult we are to deal with the burden of the recent economic crisis are also confirmed by data from the Croatian Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, which says that the total consumption of medicines in Croatia last year increased by 15% of the comparisons to the consumption of medicines in Europe at an annual level between 6 and 8%. Last year, Croats spent most of their calming pills and high-pressure and fat medicines in their blood. And finally, I'd like to say a few words about where the Međimurje County is at. So, Međimurje County belongs to a group of counties where the number of addicts per 100,000 inhabitants is lower than the Croatian average, so we have 155 addicts according to 259 as many as the average in Croatia. And in 2009 she allocated more funds for the implementation of the county programmes than in 2008. So these funds are constantly growing, so over 103,000 kunas have been allocated. What is characteristic of the County of Međimurje is the implementation of a large number of preventive programmes. But what should be said is that these programs are mostly focused on prevention, so I will say traditional addictions, so drinking alcohol and smoking cigarettes, and less on drug prevention, which should certainly be changed for reasons despite the low number of addicts in Međimurje compared to the Croatian average. However, part of preventive activities should focus on preventing drug abuse among young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62120	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Gyurjka Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, the Jelacian, but you're standing up for yourself right now. I just wanted to correct you in this part when you said it was a negligible number of juvenile drug users that it was simply negligible compared to the adult population. In fact, the thing is that these programmes and campaigns run into the investment of these 99 million just now and this National Programme of Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth contributes to young generations of primary school getting acquainted with drug problems and so maybe if God dearly does and has a less addict in the population for 10 years I don't know the adult. But in the end you still do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62122	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since I'm the last person to talk about this subject that we're talking about and because of what we're told, I'm going to be very brief in my presentation. So drugs are, in the fullest sense, a public health problem of public proportion and it is to be dealt with and to expect certain problems in this handling, and no one can say that there is no problem. On the other hand, it is clear in this report that the results made by the institutions of this country are good, I would say for now and in the time in which we are and given the enormous supply of the drug market are acceptable. Anyway, anything can get better, and it can always get better. And here was the question when we were talking on this side about how we could be satisfied with this report how it was interpreted as if we were going to say it couldn't be better. That's not true. Be better can always be and work better. And I therefore welcome this announcement that, in fact, when it comes to prevention and better means, there will be no enthusiasm and it will be better achieved, that this prevention will also be introduced in those lowest groups of children's kindergartens. According to some reports in average classes, 5 boys and 2 girls are the ones who take or are in contact with any of the psychoactive substances. And it is therefore a very important place of school not only from an educational point of view and preventive in this regard, but also from institutions that will respond in time and in time report such phenomena. According to statistics, however, schools are at least reporting such cases. That's mostly what families do. I think it's about 40% and the police. And I agree with my colleague Kunst, who was talking here about the role and the police that he simply can't tolerate eye-to-eye, obviously dealing, and actually all those people who do this work. I remain in my confidence and conviction by this group of HDZ deputies who say everything needs to be done to make the drugs available as little as possible, and in any case, that includes the failure to decriminalise drugs. It's my belief, simply for a very simple practically life-saving reason. Every alcoholic, every smoker started with one cup or one cigarette, etc. Same thing happens when it comes to drugs. People who start never started taking drugs from some hard drugs, etc. rather than starting from that level and then recruiting from these groups and it is therefore very important to conduct education in a way that a young person never actually comes into first contact. And to create such patterns by which such behavior is considered unacceptable ultimately very harmful and simply to be a reason why a young person never enters that world. I think that therefore prevention and investment in prevention is crucial in dealing with this repeated public health evil which, unfortunately, is national scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62124	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62125	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank you at the end of today's discussion for this whole discussion. I'm sure we'll all agree together that today's discussion is only about our concern for one such topic as drug abuse, drug abuse and all kinds of drugs in the Republic, the emergence of new drugs on the market and everything else that would be related. I have to get to know you because sometimes some things need to be clearly repeated, the Government of the Republic of Croatia except that it has formed and that it has the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse whose main task has been to connect institutions dealing with these issues and that we consider that cooperation today may be at the best level since all this has been launched, to the fact that there is a commission dealing with the fact that the representatives of all institutions dealing in one place can make one good inter-resorial cooperation. So it's illusory to say whether today was supposed to be another secretary of state this one or that one, because the task of all of us who are members of this committee is to actively lead not only in our portfolio but also in other resolutions where our cooperation could be strengthened. For this reason, I only wanted to show at the end of today’s debate something that led to a certain little discussion when said, or debate when it was said that in some ways we could give conditional satisfaction with this year’s report, that there was a certain stability, and then it caused a variety of things. Namely, I may not be technically able, but I might be enough of these because a 10-year follow-up of the number of treated addicts is very visible. It shows us a curve in a 10-year follow-up that we in the last four years have a certain constant. Also, when we talk about newly discovered ones, we see that we have a certain reduction. Well, that's exactly what's being said today that the older age is on average because it's getting smaller into the part. Clearly, the number of 29 thousand is not the number that would satisfy us, as well as this number that I might be able to do as another because there are a lot of graphs in this statistical data or data as I said can be made even the right statistics. But then you have to show that the number of deaths, although one man dies, we need to discuss it in this House of Commons, and I agree with all of you on your discussion. However, when we say that we are on the move, that in 10 years we have had one dot, and that we are now practically at 2002 level, then we can say that there are obviously results of a national programme, or a national strategy to fight drugs and also an action plan. And that was the basis for such a single statement, so we express our satisfaction that our institutions have extraordinary cooperation between ourselves, that we fight against this monster. It is certain that next year, as we did last year and in the 2010 report, we will have a similar discussion and I believe in the name of the promoter that this discussion is always considered constructive in a way that we try to keep at least within these frameworks as we have been talking here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62126	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 11th report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2009. The bearer is the Government. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposed report is adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 73 votes, one abstention and 28 against the proposed report, a conclusion has been reached that accepts the proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62129	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the Annual Report of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2009 containing a number of statistical and other data from which you can learn much about the importance of our work as well as the way we do it. Before delivering the main features of the report, allow a few words about the State Commission itself to control the procurement procedures. The State Commission is the second-degree body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement, concessions and public-private partnerships. Since February 2010, when the new Law on the State Commission entered into force, the State Commission has received new jurisdiction, which is to file indictments for infringements prescribed by public procurement legislation. In order to understand the way in which the State Commission works, it should be pointed out that the State Commission cannot, by official duty, control public procurement procedures but does so exclusively in the complaints of the complainant. This solution is in line with the requirements of relevant sources of European law in legal protection in public procurement procedures. As far as the report itself is concerned, in 2009, the State Commission received 1422 appeal cases representing an increase of as much as 39.41% compared to the year 2008 when there were 1020 complaints. If 2009 compares to 2007 when there were 637 complaints, we see that the number of cases in 2009 increased by more than 100% compared to 2007. Trends of significant increase in the number of complaints began in 2008 and continued in 2009, and the reason for a significant increase in the number of complaints in 2008 could be found in amendments to the public procurement legislation which extended the circle of applicants who could complain about public procurement procedures and also the number of stages in which complaints could be filed. However, in 2009, there were no such changes in the legislative section and it is to be assumed that the reasons for the increase in the number of appeals cases are found in raising the level of knowledge among complainants in their rights in public procurement legal proceedings. Then we can also say that one reason is that the situation is marked by the crisis of the economy. It is to be assumed that the private sector is simply taking all available measures at times of difficulties to get a job, and this includes making complaints in public procurement procedures. In addition, the impact on the constant increase in the number of complaints can be said that it certainly has a great impact and reputation of the State Commission, and we can say that it is about the confidence of the parties in the work of the state commission. What certainly contributes to the reputation of the State Commission is a high level of transparency of work. Accordingly, according to the positive regulations, all decisions made by the State Commission are made publicly available on the State Commission's website in full, therefore not anonymous form. In addition, on our site there is a public register of administrative cases which can monitor the data on all items of procurement to which the complaint has been made, including information on the contracting authorities, the complainant, the subject-matter and the value of the procurement. In this way enables the widest circle of subjects to inform about all items on the work of the State Commission. The effects of high levels of work transparency are double, which is the education of entities, as well as the fight against corruption. Similar to 2008 and 2009 it is marked by business in difficult conditions. Despite the increase in the volume of work, there was no adequate increase in the number of workers. On 31 December 2009, the State Commission had a total of 24 workers, and 32 people were required for optimal work. However, all employees have made great efforts to maintain the functionality and settlement of the subject within the deadlines, and only thanks to these great efforts, the quality of work has been maintained. It should be noted that the 2010 budget provides funds for further employment, as well as for the relocation of workers into a larger business space where existing and new workers can be qualityd. In fact, further employment and moving into the new space are measures put in charge of the State Commission's revised action plan to combat corruption by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, resulting in the recognition of the large role played by this state body and in the field of combating corruption. This measure is also fulfilled. Since the volume of work or the number of items continues to increase with today, this number is 1604 items. The possibility of further needs to strengthen the administrative capacity of this national body should not be excluded. As already stated, in 2009, the State Commission received 1422 appeals cases of 5.95% compared to the total number of posts in an electronic advert in 2009. In addition, in 2009, the State Commission decided in 112 appeal cases which were transferred from 2008, which resulted in a total of 1534 cases which were resolved in 2009 of 1374 or 89.6%, representing an increase of 41.94% of cases resolved compared to the year 2008 in which 968 cases were resolved. All appeal cases received in one year cannot be resolved in that same year because they are accepted and at the very end of the year means 31.12.200, so they cannot be completed and are necessarily transferred within the following year. According to complaints received in 2009, the State Commission controlled 609 different contracting entities, i.e. the obligor of the application of the Public Procurement Act. And the total value of controlled procedures in 2009 before the State Commission amounted to 7 billion 389 million 925 thousand kuna. In the complaint cases, the State Commission assessed in 47.23% of the cases the complaint was established, resulting in a decision to annul the procurement and cancellation of the selection decision either in whole or in part as well as the annulment of the negotiated procurement procedure. The complaint was dropped due to a lack of procedural assumptions in 10.12% of cases. The appeal procedure was suspended in 10.92% of cases while the complaint was rejected in 7.72% of cases. As we know, the State Commission is not initiating appeal proceedings under official duty, but in appeal by the complainants. However, once the appeal procedure has already been initiated, the State Commission shall also monitor the legality of the procurement procedure according to its official duties in relation to the essential infringements of the law referred to in Article 140. Public procurement laws. Of the proceedings in which the complaint was adopted in 56.7% of the cases, the illegality established by official duty was and 69.18% of the cases concerning the founding of the complaint. As can be seen from these data, the complaint states and significant injuries may also be consistent. The report sets out the most common reasons why procurement procedures and selection decisions are repealed. It should be pointed out that the complainants are obliged to pay compensation for the conduct of proceedings before the State Commission in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act when initiating the appeal procedure. This fee is the revenue of the state budget, and depending on the value of the procurement procedure, it is 2000, 5000 and 7,500 kuna respectively. On the basis of the 2009 compensation, 5 million 845 thousand 527 kuna were paid to the state budget, and the approved budget of the State Commission for 2009 was 6 million 321 thousand 183 kuna. According to these data, the State Commission has cost the Republic of Croatia under quotes less than 500,000 kuna. Furthermore, according to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act against decisions of the State Commission, it is possible to declare an administrative action to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. The parties to the State Commission's proceedings were brought against decisions by the State Commission in 2009 to all 74 administrative lawsuits, representing a percentage of 5.39%. A small number of lawsuits may indicate the fact that the parties in approximately 95% of cases are satisfied with the State Commission's decision. Always an interesting part of the Report of the State Commission which contains a list of contracting entities which have a number of procedures before the State Commission which have found a breach of the legal provision in the procurement procedure. This information shall be published by the State Commission, which shall result in the publication of the data referred to in Article 19. The State Commission Act. However, this should certainly be taken into account that the State Commission can only provide this information in relation to the procurement procedures which have been the subject of the appeal procedure, and so much of this data should be observed in this context. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Law on the State Commission must also include an assessment of the situation in legal protection and in public procurement in general. The State Commission can only give an assessment based on practice as a sample. Public procurement legislation since January 2008 has contributed significantly to the development of a public procurement system, and the same rules have long been in place long enough that areas that can be further improved have already been observed. For example. The Public Procurement Act knows certain institutes which are undernourished or not clearly normised. It is necessary to further standardise the matter of the framework agreement, since this institute allows one bidder to be selected for a period of four years and with certain conditions and for a longer period. Then, in practice, it is necessary to create a basis for the conduct of electronic auctions, through which significant savings can be achieved, as well as to encourage the submission of tenders in electronic form, as the Public Procurement Act allows and foresees this. Furthermore, in the area of legal protection, it is certainly necessary to consider the possibility of a correction of the amount to be paid for the conduct of the appeal procedure, in order to demotiate the malignancies, but to ensure that the legal protection system is not compromised. The overall legislative framework must monitor the development of the acquis, given the status of the Republic of Croatia in the accession negotiations. Furthermore, public procurement legislation is often linked to specific rules relating to party status, public procurement procedures, or to a specific subject of procurement, so as to affect different branches of law, administrative law, criminal law, compulsory law, company law, regulations governing the areas of insurance, medical products, financial markets, area of construction, etc. It is therefore necessary to pay attention to the compliance of these rules with the rules governing the area of public procurement. During the entire legal protection system, efforts should be made further to raise the level of knowledge of the participants in the proceedings. Continuing education also has an anti-corruption effect. As has been said, strong anti-corruption effects in the work of the state commission are achieved by publishing all decisions in full form on the state commission's website. The anti-corruption effect is also achieved by the very fact that the state commission is established and functioning, as an independent and independent state body, which provides legal protection and thus ensures the strengthening of the rule of law and sanctioning illegal public procurement practices. The exercise of the powers of the State Commission is an instrument of combating corruption, since this state body repeals public procurement procedures, which determine the conditions for repealing illegality, thus preventing the conclusion of harmful contracts financed from the state budget, the budget of units of local or regional self-government, or the funds of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. There is a brief summary of the 2009 report on the work of the state commission, and what should ultimately be pointed out is the fact that the state commission has maintained the quality of its work despite a large increase in the scope of the work, and the stagnation of the number of employees. As I have already cited all state commission employees doing their job extremely successfully, I reiterate that it is a small number of people, and a very important and sensitive job, so I am using this opportunity to thank all the employees of the state commission for their successful work in 2009, on all the efforts made, in fulfilling work tasks and extremely high-quality work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62130	Thank you. The Economic Committee? Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62131	Dear Presidents of the State Commission, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, right at the beginning, I'd say on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club that we're going to vote for the adoption of this report. At first, however, it is not the state commission's fault that it has no tools to counter public procurement abuses. The position of the state commission is to conduct a legal assessment procedure in the public procurement process. In its own duty, neither the ex-legislator nor the ex-offo cannot control public procurement procedures that have not come to it in a demarcation or jurisdiction. That's why her actions are limited and very limited. And if this is added that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has compromised both the Commission and the procurement of FIMA Media with its action and procurement, then it would be useful to consider the position of the Commission in the public procurement process and the position of the state administration that controls public procurement. The Commission is independent of both the government and the administration, but its reach is limited. And that is why we have complaints from the European Union that the procedure and the public procurement are wrong, so public procurement is more about the state's attorney, the courts and the police, but the state administration, and the public procurement control commission. One more should add to that assessment, and I often speak from this pay phone, the responsibility of parliamentarians is very large. I could say anything that comes from the Government without control and supervision or at least due control and supervision as provided by the Constitution. If we were more critical of the government, we wouldn't have half the problems we have today and in public procurement. Why does it matter? Here's an example. If we had a body that cares about the general interest in public procurement, which is independent of the Government, and of the Parliament, as we have the case body which is the Ombudsman, there are more bodies, and that, according to its own initiative ex offo and by law, it can run and check the public procurement process I am convinced that today we would have at the Croatian Assembly a verified result of the sale or purchase of the "Sun-Hvar" privatisation. You all know that Sunny Hvar was privatized without the Public Private Partnership Act being passed, that it was not privatized under the Privatisation Act and that no funds were obtained in public procurement. No one on this case, you could say by official duty, can say anything. I could say one more time without the guilt and responsibility of the commission, the surgery has worked, but the patient is out. The Commission has indeed properly explained and opened a report on its business, on the success of business, the procedure and how much it costs to society and the state. But was that what we wanted? We didn't want the state to cost a commission, but we wanted the State Commission and the State Administration to be able to control the public procurement process in any case, whether the law is fair and whether it is harmful in such proceedings, whether it is in the general interest implemented or not. So I wouldn't be long. There is something that, which should be commended in this law, that, when I say so, the subject comes before the commission is not limited by appeal or request. The Commission then controls the overall procedure and its legality. But if we still had a body to safeguard the general interest by official duty and by law, then we would probably have much less damage, less objections, and perhaps the reason for the refusal to complete the negotiations in Chapter 23 with the EU would be well removed. We at the SDP club have already talked several times about public procurement and the protection of general interests and have so far proposed to change the position and commission, especially the State Administration for the control of public procurement procedures. Not to be too long, we will accept the report, but, of course, for God's sake, we are not satisfied with how public procurement is taking place and how many doubts there are, therefore, in the public procurement process, which not only materially, but also in political and state terms damages the position of the Republic of Croatia. Let's take care of it. Let's not stop. The Government proposes to protect the procedure because the government is responsible for the work of the State Administration to control the procurement process. And we need to get the government to at least give us a report on that body's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62132	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62133	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected presidents with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the 2009 Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. We estimate that it has been done well, that professionally presented matter and explained the problem of the report and also well systemised according to thematic aspects. The relevant benchmarks are presented. In the end, a state of legal protection assessment is given in public procurement. Let us briefly remind ourselves that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is an independent and independent state body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures, giving concessions and selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects. It therefore decides on the course of public procurement procedures prior to the signing of the Treaty on the conclusion of transactions which prevents it from acting in its jurisdiction. We must in particular underline that the State Commission decides in the appeal procedure on the legality of the procedures of the actions, the failure of actions and decisions as individual acts taken in public procurement procedures. The State Commission does not therefore act when a certain damage has occurred but rather before the conclusion of harmful contracts, i.e. it actually prevents us from the creation of a potential corrupt activity of parties in the public procurement process. It also looks at its most powerful anti-corruption activity, which again has multiple beneficial effects. In this context, it should be pointed out in particular that the State Commission has fully succeeded in taking measures to combat corruption adopted by the Croatian Parliament and the Action Plan, with the Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What should certainly be pointed out about the work of the State Commission that its transparency and the public is at an extremely high level. Namely, any decision it makes in the appeal procedure shall be published in full form on the official website. In the same place, a register of administrative proceedings with data on all complaints lodged and information on the contracting authority, the complainant, the purchase values and items as well as the type of decision taken in the specific procedure is visible. Data on these pages are updated daily, which is very important and means that they are always current, and this should continue to be pursued. As part of the general assessment of the work of the State Commission, we must also say something about the new law on public procurement and on negotiations in the Chapter – Public procurement in connection with EU harmonisation. The new public procurement legislation has also contributed significantly to the development of the public procurement system. Since January 2009, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on concessions has been applied, and several sublaws, 10 regulations and one regulation governing the area of public procurement have been adopted during the year. As regards the EU procurement negotiations, they were formally opened on 19 December 2008, common positions and criteria for closing chapters relating to the adaptation of the national legislative framework with the acquis have been established. In this direction, procedures have been laid down to achieve full functionality of the competent authorities at all levels, both national and regional and local, and to ensure the proper application and implementation of the necessary activities to meet the established criteria and procedures. And it should be said that in June of this year, Chapter 5. - Public procurement and temporarily closed. We are aware of the fact that public procurement legislation is extremely complex and that it is strictly standardized appeal procedure and that it takes time and education of all entities to learn about the rules of public procurement procedures. It is evident that over the past year, a lot of seminars and education of participants were held and a lot of efforts were made to raise the level of professionalism in public procurement. In particular, a number of forms of education of the administration for the public procurement system of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship should be highlighted, especially for the employees of the State Commission. Certainly, the results of raising the level of knowledge among the complainants thanks to these educations have led to the knowledge of their rights and the possibilities of legal protection. This was reflected in us and the number of cases received in the appeal procedure which increased by 39.41% in 2009 compared to the previous year. The increase in the number of cases did not have a negative impact on the case resolution which confirms almost 90% of the cases solved compared to the number of cases received. It also inevitably suggests a rise in the confidence that the parties have in the work of the state commission. In the HDZ Representatives Club, we also support the recommendations proposed by the state commission to develop and improve the public procurement system. We have no objections to the annual report and we will support the annual report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62134	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS and HSU club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62135	Thank you very much. Madam President of the State Commission with associates, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning of the HNS and HSU club will support this report, as only the report is really high-quality and core and should be particularly highlighted in its recommendations mostly almost the same as the previous report when we talked about the 2008 report. In key elements almost the same. When I talk about key elements, I am talking about exactly what recommendations we have in the Croatian Parliament of our colleagues and colleagues from the State Commission have said their position on the basis of experience, which should be changed, which is not good what problems are and how to improve efficiency. In the meantime, nothing happened. Almost nothing. They said very clearly there's not enough of us, we need to increase the number of employees, we're under established systems, but still nothing happens. Who is proposing members of this committee? Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why did the Government of the Republic of Croatia not propose why the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not initiate the procedure in proposing or better put forward the training of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures according to the recommendations and conclusions made when adopting the previous report. Obviously, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reason not to. I repeat, it says the same thing again. I'm just reading the area of public procurement from a public procurement assessment. "The area of public procurement is extremely important for the whole society and is a set of procedures by which goods, works and services are supplied necessary for the smooth functioning of the state at central and local level in the broadest sense, as well as companies owned or otherwise related to the state. The end-users of each case supply directly and indirectly must be citizens." And when we talk about public procurement, which was about 40 billion kuna in 2009. What exact knowledge do I have? The one we read from the daily press. I think it's like we commented this morning, that it's a fig leaf. Identifying full public procurement with this report is a clean fig leaf. Because this report speaks of 7.8 billion controlled public procurement, with those 7.8 not necessarily meant... That amount is far lower. [[- Talk away from the microphone, you can't hear.]] How far we don't know. And the total public procurement is about 40 billion. Therefore, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in the frameworks that were allowed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia not by the Croatian Parliament, but by the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done its job with great quality and full responsibility. And in this report and the previous report, she gave a state-of-the-art summary and made recommendations. What, though, of these recommendations did we adopt? Or what happened? Is something going on? Did something move except I repeat what I read from the daily press thanks above all to investigative journalism and one strong activity of the institutions of the states as popular recently called. Furthermore, the Commission for the control of public procurement works exclusively on the basis of complaints. There is no possibility of self-involvement in the control of public procurement procedures, no. We at the HNS and HSU club think it's a serious flaw. Is he aware that it's hard for me to say, because we have proposed on behalf of the club just to amend the Public Procurement Act that the powers of the Commission to control public procurement that at any time can, based on some plan, do not matter, but based on some plan, on information, on the basis of suspicion, on the basis of the application, enter into the control of public procurement procedures. However, we have been told this is not the commission's task, it is for that of the institutions of the state whose task it is. And our proposal didn't go through. And now our question to both the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Audit not for full public procurement, just for this segment controlled by the commission. I repeat, it's only 5.5% of total public procurement. Is there any procedure in place, if so, which one? Do we in the Croatian Parliament have that information, does the public have that information? I repeat, both by the State Audit and by the State's Attorney's Office. Secondly, the applicant has the right to appeal to the Administrative Court for a decision by the State Commission on the appeal. How does this system work at all, at what time does the Administrative Court make decisions? To what extent does the Administrative Court improve the entire flow of public procurement with its efficiency? Because normally, at the moment of the final resolution of the appeal, the whole procurement process is blocked. Knowing from some other examples of where and personal experience I have, I think the Administrative Court is one of the serious brakes at the speed of efficiency of the entire system. On this, however, we may be at the Croatian People's Party club - the Croatian party of pensioners and we are mistaken, but reading this report, I think that in this sense and the day is one indication by the Commission, in terms of slowing down the entire system because of the second-degree authority in the process of public procurement control. And finally, what is the role of the Department of Public Procurement at the Ministry of Economy. This report does not show that. Did we ever get any information about this administration in the Croatian Parliament? How and how do they overlap, do we get somewhere, do we have dualism? When we discussed the 2008 report, my question was precisely that administration how many indictments were filed by the competent court because it was in its jurisdiction, as the Commission for the control of public procurement informs of its findings and that administration. Did something happen or is something happening? So very clearly and loudly, this report is high-quality, progress is visible, the fact is that 50% of all who filed complaints had reasons to appeal, that's a fact. The need and fear for the intolerance of the appeal for known reasons, not to repeat them, is known to all of us, very likely because of the overall crisis and... But what is the efficiency of public procurement, did we create in the state a system for controlling total public procurement, did we create a system that takes care of taxpayers' funds and what role it is and what position we all have in this Croatian Parliament when we talk about this segment, I don't think it's small. [[You don't understand.]] And do we have the strength to finally talk about it and find a common position of how and how to solve that cancer wound, that metastasy in the total corruption segment that is present and why we all have problems. During the 2008 report debate, an example from one county where an additional item was installed following the cancellation of the tender, a tender by the non-committee contracting authorities was cancelled, and this is proof of the insolvency of a minimum of 5 million profits in the previous year. The fact is that the tender was opened by a public company, the fact is that after all these slaloms, a company that proved its insolvency of 5 million profits in the previous year, the company and the owner of that company and the secretary of a political party were by chance. And a year ago, I said, I'm willing to give my name and company and case, but in those years, no one asked me anything. Dal's gonna ask me, I'm ready to say it. But I am speaking as an example of our public procurement and I am speaking as an example of something that we all know, we are also known in this general segment on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Support to members of the State Commission who are working under difficult conditions. Whether it's an accident or not, about that then, but I don't think it's an accident. And let's clear up with this public procurement and not settle for a single report that is very correct, which is very high-quality, but I repeat that which is just a fig leaf on the total indispensions that are called public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62136	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. My colleagues and colleagues. As with the past, last year's report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures can be said to be more than perfect. In addition to the data of a statistical nature, other indicators are relevant for the creation of a picture of the State Commission's work to control public procurement procedures, including the need for particularly highlighted information on the anti-corruption action of the State Commission, and an assessment of the state of the public procurement, indicating that the State Commission not only solves complaints in the field of public procurement but also detects any problems, and also gives recommendations on how to solve these problems. The report noted that there was a continuation in the trend of increasing the number of appeals cases compared to the previous year in 2009. We've heard in this report itself and the oral part that it's over 100 percent. Obviously, there are several reasons that have led to an increase in the number of complaints made on public procurement procedures, and most important of them are the adoption of a new Public Procurement Act that extends active legitimacy and enables more complaints to be made during the procurement process. These are reasons to explain the increase in the number of cases in 2008. In 2009, there was neither the adoption nor the entry into force of new rules affecting the extension of active legislation or the number of stages at which the appeal could be made. To assume that the reasons for the continued increase in the number of complaints are in raising the level of knowledge among the complainants, on their rights in the legal protection procedures in public procurement, but the possible reason for further increase in the number of complaints can also be found in the immediate state of the marked crisis in the economy, since we are aware that we are also of the opinion that the private sector is simply taking absolutely all available measures for obtaining a specific job, and this includes, among other things, the statement of complaints in public procurement procedures for which the complainants consider that they have not been properly implemented. The same constant increase in the number of complaints certainly points to the trust that the parties to the proceedings have in the work of this State Commission. We consider it useful to point out the most common reasons for the adoption of complaints in proceedings before the State Commission. I'll only bring a few here. For example, incorrect application of the right laid down by law and documentation for competition, prohibition of submission of joint tenders, or restrictions on the right to submit common offers, favouring of a specific bidder or producer through a description of the procurement or conditions in question, etc. I don't want to pick up everything else. The State Commission further points out in its Report that in its practice it sees certain problematic areas, i.e. areas requiring additional legislative procedures. According to the Public Procurement Act, certain institutes are undernourished and insufficiently clearly normised. For example, there is a need to further standardise the matter of the framework agreement since the same Institute in the Public Procurement Act is regulated by all three provisions, and it is a way of obtaining which is possible to select one bidder for a period of up to four years and subject to certain conditions and for a longer period. In practice, it is also necessary to create a basis for the conduct of electronic auctions with which significant savings can be achieved, as well as to encourage the submission of tenders in electronic form, as the Public Procurement Act provides for the same. The overall legislative framework is certainly accompanied by the development of legal gain in view of the Statute of the Republic of Croatia in the accession negotiations. Public procurement legislation is often linked to specific rules relating to party status in public procurement procedures or to a specific subject of procurement and so on. The rules governing the area of public procurement are also linked to the rules governing administrative proceedings in the area of company law, compulsory law, criminal law, etc. It is therefore necessary to pay attention to the compliance of the same rules with the rules governing the area of public procurement. Furthermore, the number of complaints lodged to the State Commission since the ongoing increase in the public procurement control procedure in the jurisdiction of the State Commission is only being activated on the initiative, and this is what we have heard today from the complainant himself. However, in order to minimise the possibility of malignancy complaints, consideration should be given to the possibility of changing the amount of compensation for the conduct of the appeal procedure. In this report, we also received a financial report, i.e. the revenue of the state budget. It is also necessary to consider the possibility that for the sake of flexibility, the fees should be paid to the offices of the regulation, not by law. It is also necessary to further regulate the rules of the appeal procedure in the area of awarding concessions and selecting a private partner in a public-private partnership since these areas have their specificities in relation to classical public procurement, and the current solutions are unique for all three areas. This Report also highlights the need to pay attention to the area of enforcement of the Public Procurement Treaty, since it is an area that needs to be regulated, made transparent and available control within the public procurement system, and all in accordance with relevant sources of European law. Public procurement legislation is extremely complex, but it also has a direct link with other legal areas. In this regard, public procurement legislation is linked to administrative, mandatory, infringement law, company law and other rights branches. It is therefore necessary to work systematically to comply with the rules, since the conflict of those rules has the effect of difficulties in practice, legal gaps, and legal uncertainty. And before I say that, and the Club of Representatives of the HSS will support this report precisely because of practice and because of those who work in units of local and regional self-government, and there are six-sixths of them in the Republic of Croatia in this Report we see that it is on average almost 43 days to resolve certain complaints. In my opinion, or our knowledge, some complaints have been resolved for up to three months, and we think it is inadmissible for so long to resolve complaints no matter what amount. But also not to be interpreted as a pressure on the State Commission, because I think it is in everyone's interest that there is no corruption, but believe me, the mayors and the mayors are very much in the interest that their complaints are positive or negative as soon as possible. All those working in local self-government units know what the month, two or three of budgeting, public procurement, complaints and at the end of the spending of the funds to be made in that same financial year. Whether a new number of people we've seen in this report are needed to do so is that the systemization itself is not filled. Whether certain funds are needed, but with the support of this report, an application for deadlines to be as short as possible, I repeat without any pressure on the state commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62138	Thank you very much, colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. And the first enlisted was the esteemed colleague of Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on this report will begin with the findings of the previous report, the previous point, what I did not find there, and in this report is practically at the very end, and what I am glad that the state commission has finished its report and with certain findings that some improvements in the public procurement system should also be carried out by the Parliament. Therefore, it was found that the Public Procurement Act did not sufficiently elaborate on the matter of the framework agreement, all three provisions suggest by sublaw or by supplementing the law, and this is more clearly regulated, it is a public procurement process when it can be negotiated for four years, and especially for a longer period than four years. And it's good to warn you, and I want to believe that someone in the government has read this report and understood your warning of the need for further normation of such an important segment, if you've noticed that something in the law so far is not good, especially because of the seriousness of the situation, because when something is negotiated on four or not given God for years, of course we can always suspect that it's a clean job, or be convinced of that, but also to suspect that it's possible corruption, because every public procurement process is a point of corruption risk, just being carried out by angels. In the report, though, when you explain the number of complaints, complaints, you mildly claim that not all corruption is necessary, that there may also be ignorance, errors in the process, so you are forced to accept the appeal and, or cancel the procedure, by your decision to intervene. Now what if the government doesn't respond to this warning within 4, 5, 6 months? Do we have to write that bill, or extend, or legal provisions? This would be good if the future responsible people in the government were more seriously reading these reports, because the government's opinion of this report I did not find a sentence we have read what the Commission is proposing and we are taking the obligation that the government will, by supplementing the law or by sublaw, resolve it by Christmas this year. If such a sentence were written about the government's opinion, I shouldn't be saying this. But since I've already stuck to this framework agreement, as possible... corruption risk, I'm going to give you two examples where there's obviously a breach of the entire public procurement and corruption system, and you're going to be helpless. [[You don't understand.]] One state-owned company launched a public tender for laying is 67km of optical cable, but the condition in the competition was that the performer must have 55km of copper cable, which is the oldest and oldest technology and no one is using at all. And strangely, only one bidder in Croatia had 55km of copper cable, which he bought from the warehouse of the company that opened the competition, because it was already written off, dumped, no longer needed, and stood on the lager, and only he had the conditions to get a job laying down that optic cable. No one else could buy it anywhere, because there is no more market. And the competition went legally. The fact that this company bought back that copper cable she sold to him before, that's another thing now. He's still standing in the warehouse, and he's never gonna need him, and they don't dare sell him in old copper, to junkyards, because I guess it would be what it's all about. This same firm has opened a tender for large quantities of fans, technical specifications, all great, but one condition was that the bidder accepts a deadline of 300 days and a payment of 40 days from the day of the invoice. And only one bidder made such an offer, no one else could accept it, of course, since the price was not the only criterion, the most expensive fans were purchased, of all the offers they were. I don't think anyone in Croatia's history bought such expensive fans. But it was consistent with the competition... Only one bidder accepted 300 days of non-functioning. [[You don't understand.]] What about such manipulations? This company is a state property, in great losses, difficulties, in front of failure, everything and everything. And a yearly state in that company is hitting me, it seems to me that a billion 800 is the last piece of information. That's all six months old I've told you now. A thousand 422 complaint cases worth 7 billion 300 million if I read your report well. Significant money. I didn't find any information on the total public procurement in Croatia in 2009, 54, this is about 15%? It's not? About 15%. When the legislative solution was in the House, I insisted that you always state in your report what you gave, a list of those who ran the public procurement process, and in which you had a number of complaints, and which were accepted. And now you've given here a list of those where there were four or more complaints, which is very good that you gave us, but there's no matter what, so you've given the number of cases and the number of complaints adopted, which is one indicator, but what is the value of public procurement in a particular entity? It may occur that someone has 70% of the complaints received from you or the annulment of the proceedings, but that the total value of this purchase is one million kuna. And on the other hand, someone may have three complaints that you've adopted and returned to the beginning, but it's worth a billion kuna. If you understand what I'm asking. So I would kindly ask this information is accurate, useful, but if... and the value of the case in which the complaints were adopted we will not be able to see and assess whether it is ignorance or corruption. And I end up with the next one, if anyone knows in this room or in this country, what fate is in charge of the State Department for Protection and Rescue where out of 4 complaints 4 have been adopted, 100%. Ignorance? What is the fate of those responsible at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Zagreb where 60% of complaints are adopted? What is the fate of the employees and responsible in HEP operator of the distribution system 60%? Public Health Institute Andrija Stampar 63%, HEP operator Split 63%, Ministry of Agriculture 63% and now I'm not counting, 63%, yes, not counting. Is it possible that someone is convinced that in all these cases there was no doubt of corruption at all but of the clear ignorance where the State Commission annuls, or accepts such a large number of complaints? I can now again argue that this is a serious problem because I do not know the value of these public procurements where complaints have been adopted. How is it that in the government everyone says that zero tolerance is corruption, you deliver a report, and these companies that I've read now and some of them when I read them for five years are consecutively in the report from the State Commission? Five years! There's some new ones, I saw, the lumens. No one has ever asked anyone there well, so don't you really have anyone to conduct the public procurement procedure in accordance with the law? Come on a year, two, but five years can't respect the law. Or that's where Karamark's men should go. That's what I always insist on for as long as your report won't be used for such things. It would be good next year just write one sentence – the commission exists, the commission works and we're alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62140	First we have one replica. Dear colleague Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Lesar, here's a very detailed description of these manipulations in some state-owned company about copper wire meters, as it went. They're really nasty manipulations, probably when you've described the company's name in such detail, you know. So I'm just asking you if you might have filed a criminal report because I see from your description and a description of the beings of several crimes that would have gone out of it, and I'm asking if you might have filed a criminal report when you have any knowledge because there would be the right place to study it, or maybe you reported it to UsKOK on this case?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62142	Thank you, colleague Lovrin. Replication response. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62143	Dear colleague Lovrin, I didn't have time to file a criminal report because I got that information last night around 7:30, and I'm not as skilled as you are to write criminal charges in such short time. I did a lot of criminal charges written to our state's attorney's office, so they brought them back to my work, should finish law school to write a criminal application to be enough to be used. But I want to believe that this is someone who heard what I was saying, that from the body of persecution and investigation we're going to ask someone, so I'm happy to answer them where it was. Let's not waste paper, orderly fees, and then call you in, call for a hearing. Here, somebody ask me, I'll be happy to tell him. Hello, can anyone hear you? Here, I'm ready to say where it is, if anyone asks me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62144	Thank you. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62145	Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62146	Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62147	Dear Vice President, President of the State Commission, colleagues and colleagues. Public procurement is an area where huge money is turned. In 2009, €39.5 billion was spent through the public procurement system. In 2008. 40 billion. It is because of this very fact that public procurement is a highly fertile ground for illegal treatment and for corruption. The state commission reviewed public procurement procedures worth 7.4 billion kuna, so practically every fifth kuna engaged in public procurement procedures during 2009 was subject to control by the State Commission. The question arises whether each of those fifth kunas was potentially corrupt? The Commission's report shows that during 2009, the number of complaints lodged on public procurement procedures was increased by as much as 39% compared to 2008 with a single real explosion in the number of complaints from over 62% compared to the base, therefore compared to 2007. In one word, the number received over the last two years has doubled. It is certain that one of the reasons for the high rise in the number of complaints is the ever-increasing knowledge of the Public Procurement Act, i.e. the complainants are increasingly familiar with the legal protection procedures in public procurement. That's what the report that's in front of us is about. In 2009, only 10% of complaints were rejected against 15% of how much was rejected a year earlier while the number of complaints received was increased from 36% in 2008 to as much as 47% in 2009. However, it is also certain that the increase in the number of complaints indicates all the complexity of the situation in which economic operators operate. He shows how convulsive entrepreneurs are fighting for work, I would say literally for their share of the cake, for their prey on the market where jobs are getting smaller and smaller. Unfortunately, due to this large flow of new cases in 2009, certain personnel problems in the commission have also culminated. As a result of the heavy burden, professional people are breaking up the contract with the State Commission, new people are coming in who need a certain period of adjustment until they reach full functionality, increase and talk about it. Of course, all of this had a negative impact on the efficiency of the state commission to confirm the data contained in this report. Out of the total of 534 items that the Commission had in the control process in 2009, 160 virtually every 10 remained unsolved. It's true, a number of them, and because the objects weren't complete. In addition, complainers on the ground have noticed more and more recently that the commission is no longer in line with the 15-day law, so despite the maximum pawnage of all its people, it is no longer simply able to comply with that deadline. The solutions are now waiting for several months and if this trend continues to extend the period in which the cases are to be resolved, the purpose of the appeal procedure before the Commission will be raised, given the nature of the procurement procedures. This problem has been recognised by the European Commission's lack of expert advisors and listed in its 2009 progress report. Therefore, it is good to grant additional resources in the national budget for 2010 for the employment of 6 new experts and two people in charge of administrative work, and also for the provision of larger business space. We don't know if any of this is real. As I am already talking about the resources the Commission has in doing its job, it should be said that the approved budget of the 2009 commission amounted to 6.3 million kuna, while at the same time through the cash compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure, the Commission has set aside a state budget of 5.8 million kuna + 100,000 kuna from the administrative fees paid. Obviously, therefore, over 90% of the budget is practically provided by the Commission alone. And it's from the aspect of the state budget acceptable and good. The Commission is considering we have heard, even about the increase in compensation that would primarily aim at detimulating unfounded or malignancies. However, if this story is viewed from the point of view of the complainants, the situation is completely contrary. The objectors from the field complain that the fees are already too high and that their height is one of the main reasons for their intolerance. In addition to height, the complainants also complain that the Commission will not take the complaint into consideration unless it has been paid a fee. If we compare this behaviour by the state commission, for example, with the handling of courts, then we can see that the courts really do not condition their treatment by paying the advances. I'm asking you a question about the amount of compensation. Therefore, they could not be reduced at least temporarily as an anti-recession measure that would also help entrepreneurs, as well as legal protection against corruption, make both cheaper and more accessible. A few more words about the complaints of the complainant from the field. The complainants, therefore, note that the state commission's solutions are not sufficiently justified, that the same ground of appeal is assessed differently in a different context. In one word, the Commission's solutions do not create good practice through which the complainants could learn what they can complain about and what they can't. Finally, the complainants in the field highlight the need to amend the Public Procurement Act, as certain law institutes are undernourished or insufficiently clearly normised and create a lot of problems in practice. Public procurement legislation is certainly going to agree on the one hand extremely complex, on the other hand it does not have a longer tradition and it is really difficult to draw up good documentation for competition under the current Public Procurement Act. It can be concluded from the report that the experience of the state commission itself is in the wake of the need to amend the law in the light of its compliance with the rules of administrative, mandatory, criminal law and the rights of commercial companies, since the existing conflict among these regulations has been a consequence and difficulties in applying and legal uncertainty and, of course, opens up additional space for corruption. Finally, I would refer to the state commission's remarks that the legal deadline for submitting the annual report to the Croatian Parliament is too short. It's about the date of March 31st. I would agree with that remark especially in the context of the fact that the state commission has to make it by the end of March, and that we are discussing it here at the beginning of November, so with 7 months late.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62148	Thank you very much. Next, an esteemed colleague named Danesh Shaw signed up for discussion. Here's my colleague Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored presidents, colleagues and colleagues. I want to get involved in this debate with several findings, although the largest part of those findings that I wanted to say was just a moment ago, so I'm going to cut it short. If we look at this data, it is evident that in 2009 almost 100% of the number of cases was increased compared to 2007. At the same time, this data shows that the planned structure of the employed 32, and the actual filling is 24 or even more quality indicator is that the average of those who consult the more complex part of the work worked is 9 and is planned on 19th, therefore, if we see that the average is 43 days from the date of reception, then it can be satisfactory. I also mentioned yesterday this data we keep mentioning that in the state authorities in the judiciary in the state administration it was estimated somewhere from 2.3 to 6.7 and more thousands employed to put it that way. There must be one third or at least 20% of lawyers among these people, and again and again I appeal to do something about this commission's work to gain efficiency and especially for one part of the judiciary, and above all I think of the High Court of Commerce where the cases are waiting 2.5 to 3 years. It is certainly particularly important that the colleague pointed out that the practical work of this commission cost the state budget about 500 thousand kuna or perhaps a little more, and when we bear in mind the effect and content of this work then it is indeed symbolic. Furthermore, I noticed another interesting piece of information, I don't know from this Slavonian-Baranja region if anyone noticed it in this statement of appeal. For those who have complained more than 4 times than 85 or 86 cases, or cases or companies, all two are from the Osijek area. Now I'm thinking about whether everyone in that region is so perfectly educated that they know everything, they work by law or they're fair, so there's no need or there's something else that's simply less investment in this area. I get the feeling that this is the last thing, but this is the only way I'm stressing that it sounds a little louder. Furthermore, it would be interesting, I think that Lesar mentioned the same thing, if we could get it, but it is very difficult, one piece of information about what is the fate of those who simply do not respect the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the overall process, because I think a good part of the investment is out of reach, or it is about not respecting the Public Procurement Act. And from this data one can still understand one fact that practically almost if you look at these data over 50% of complaints is unfounded, and we know that the situation now on the ground is such that the construction operation, more or less this is about big investment construction jobs, is a big competition, and I personally know a few cases where complaints are being filed just to get time so that competition is complicated that it can't start with work. And it's a very important moment, there would be a good thing if in that case the commission could act so effectively that within 7 or 15 days at the latest, of course it's very difficult for complex objects, but I think the 40-day deadline is too long, which means if it's the average that there are really those who may be two, three months waiting, and that's already a long period to realize a more significant project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62150	Thanks, buddy. And for the debate the last reported by a respected colleague representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear President, Secretary of State. I mean, I didn't mean to pick up, but I'm listening to a lot of it here and I'm seeing if something's coming up to this committee, it's not coming up, and it's really going to have to come from the fact that we've assigned everything to the commission, what kind of jobs we've given her, and then when we talk a little bit to the members of the commission, we see that actually these jobs are definitely too much, not just for this number of employees, because somehow we all feel like we're just actually talking about some big business, construction, investment, etc. And in fact here are all concessions, here you will easily hear that here are the concessions for smoking, for doctors, practically for every doctor, the general practice office, and similar that the concessions of local self-government and clearly that we have actually choked the commission with all possible jobs and that it remains too little time for what we consider priorities. And that's why a lot of objections I think we should be a little lighter because with this number of people doing this job, I think it's just a miracle. But it should be said that if we talk a little bit about complaints about what's going on with the complainants. They're not as poor in a lot of cases as we think they are, we've got more professional complainants who file a complaint at the same time to the firm that got the job, call in neatly and say, "If we get a piece of that job, we'll withdraw the complaint or I don't know, there's even any blackmail." But everyone tells you in private, but they won't publicly confirm it because clearly, you never know who they're going to be on the market with, and I think it's bad all over the story because there's actually a lot of time going on, and we know investments aren't good, investments are waiting because a series of what needs to be done is necessary. Of course it's not true that everything is dead and stopped, because then how come this huge number of complaints, means that a lot is being built and done, and even though it wants to be shown differently, but that's already a matter of politicization. Do you give the commission to review all public procurement so I think it's absurd. We had similar requests and committees to decide on a conflict of interest where they said it would be good for the commission to verify every card, every property card. Which would mean that you don't actually trust anyone but go check everyone's field. Well, I guess then overlapping all possible tax administrations and the State's Attorney's office and everything. According to this let the commission do this job, let's try to relieve it by some change of law of what is less important, let someone else do it anyway, and then we'll have certainly far more efficiency in the whole story where deadlines can be respected because they're actually going to build a little faster and more, and we know that this also depends on whether we have a good or bad image with foreign investors because they're all being said, so we can't invest for this and that, and it's hard to get into investment if you know that someone's always going to complain about it however absolutely clean. Because I'm saying again that in most cases it's all very clean, that public opening offers, so there's no reason to appeal and then you get a complaint really from someone, there's a complaint from someone who really doesn't, who's either too expensive or no paperwork, so just to complain. Well, I think we should consider that, too. So let's be consistent, if we're saying that the state needs to cut its costs, that we need to reduce the number of employees then let's not say that every institution we have a grudge that we should double, triple the number of employees because again the same people who object in the first case will again object in the second case. The state has promised to cut the number of employees, I don't know the state administration, and in fact the number's growing again. There may be a little bit of a specific case here because maybe we should support that here's the payment needed for some complainer to increase, because this is almost self-financing, so let's see how much that can go. Maybe that's one way to really increase the number of employees here relatively quickly. But that's what we need to discuss here again. And I really suggest that here, that you go into some necessary changes because that's actually the most important thing in increasing efficiency. Otherwise this is all I've heard from, so not from politicians, but from the people who are here were in the process, etc. I've heard mostly only words of praise, so I congratulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62152	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Finally, in front of the motion of the President of the State Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62153	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, I'd like to answer some questions from some respected MPs. As regards the legality of the public procurement procedure, I would point out that the right to appeal has both the State Attorney's Office and the Administration for the Public Procurement System of the Ministry of Economy and that it is an active legitimacy wider than that prescribed by the Directive. As regards the election of members of the State Commission, they shall be selected on the basis of a public tender as prescribed in Article 9. Law on the State Commission and appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and expert advisors are chosen by the basis of the competition as well. I must say that since the 2008 report, there have been some changes. As mentioned in this Report in the 2010 Budget, resources for additional employment and new space are provided for work. It was a measure put by the government in charge of the State Commission in a revised action plan to fight corruption, as it has been fulfilled. However, as I said, since the scope of the work, i.e. the number of cases, continues to increase today with a number of 1604 cases, further needs should be taken into account to strengthen the administrative capacity of the State Commission. Furthermore, as regards the Report of the above-mentioned controlled amount of 7 billion 389 million kuna, I must say that the State Commission does not in all cases have data on the values, the value of the purchase, such as in cases where the decision is taken in accordance with the provisions of Article 153. Public procurement law or in cases suspended because of the withdrawal of the appeal, i.e. the appeal was rejected as well as in cases relating to concessions in which the value is not determined as in public procurement proceedings. Therefore, the exact amount of the controlled case cannot be given, and it is assumed to be greater than that, therefore greater than seven billion and more. I must say that the jurisdiction of the State Commission does not match the authority of the Public Procurement System Administration. Namely, the question has been asked why there is no information on the total amount of the public procurement contract in our Report. Because we don't even have the information until the Public Procurement System Administration publishes it, and our deadline for submitting the Report is shorter than the deadlines that the Board has and should consider extending the deadline for the State Commission's report. As noted, the procedure lasts longer than in 2008. Of course it's not good, of course it implies additional employment. In addition to employment, however, work should be done in part to create an effective internal structure in the State Commission, which is the issue of the Statute of the State Commission. And we also need to find a solution to the detimulation of potentially malignancies. As regards the payment of compensation for the conduct of the procedure of the new Law on the State Commission which entered into force on 23.2. this year, it is prescribed that the payment of the compensation is a procedural assumption for the conduct of the procedure. There would be a few answers to your questions in short, and I would like to thank you in the end for the debate and for the praises you have made and for the remarks that should be taken into account in any case. There you go again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62154	I thank the president. I'm closing the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62155	And a 12-year report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2009. Proposer of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly parent body, I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposed annual report shall be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 97 votes for, 4 abstentions, a conclusion has been reached that accepts the proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62156	Now we move to 13th, so I suggest we combine 13th and 14th because it's the same matter, it's the same proposal, so let's bring the debate together, and it's the final draft law on the confirmation of the RACVIAC Treaty - the Centre for Security Cooperation, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 628 - Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on the termination of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of a regional aid centre for the verification of the implementation and control of weapons (RACVIAC), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 630. Do we agree? The promoter agrees. If he agrees, then just let me repeat that we received the materials, that the first and second reading was united, that the amendments could be made by the end of the debate, that two committees – the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee – had conducted the debate at this point. Reports from the board's session have been received. Proposer representative is State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Andrej Plenkovic. Mr. Secretary, here's your opening call.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62157	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies representatives, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to present to you the Act confirming the Treaty of Termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of a regional centre for assistance in verification, the implementation of arms control, etc. RACVIAC. The proposal for the establishment of RACVIAC was launched in 1990 by the Federal Republic of Germany and proposed it as a joint project for the Republic of Croatia under the then Stability Pact in Southeast Europe, and in particular by the third working table dealing with security issues. The agreement, which was concluded on 8 March 2001, was designed to form, general organisational issues, and tasks of RACVIAC when, and its headquarters as you know it in Rakitje near Zagreb. The agreement was subsequently joined by the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Turkey. By shutting down the Stability Pact, by strengthening the so-called the regional ownership and changes in RACVIAC policies and activities, the participating countries of the cooperation process in Southeast Europe, which took part in RACVIAC's work as associated members within the framework of the multinational advisory group, the RACVIAC managing body, have decided to launch new intensive negotiations on the reorganisation and re-organisation of this regional body, on the new legal basis and in order to meet future security challenges successfully. In this respect, the activities of RACVIAC so far are modernised and changed to the Centre for Security Co-operation, Independent and Non-Secretary International Organisation, a regional character whose members, through dialogue and cooperation in security issues in Southeast Europe, form the basis for reforming the security sector, control of arms, and other measures to build security and trust, such as assistance and procedures in disasters, monitoring and management of borders, combating terrorism, preventing human trafficking and other similar topics. The new RACVIAC structure and tasks were organised by the RACVIAC contract at the Centre for Security Co-operation, signed in Budva on 14 April by Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Greece, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey. Given the regional character and its new task, Germany and Italy cease to be full members of RACVIAC, which is why Croatia, Turkey, Germany and Italy agreed that the issue of the termination of the existing RACVIAC agreement is regulated by the conclusion of a special contract, which is one of today's legislative proposals, and that all assets, rights and obligations of RACVIAC are transferred to the future Centre for Security Cooperation. In order to ensure the continuity and operation of RACVIAC, it will cease to apply, so only when a new RACVIAC contract enters into force. By signing this new treaty, it is moving to a much stronger aspect of regional ownership, and the tasks of this international organisation will be achieved through dialogue and cooperation in security issues, in particular by organising different conferences, workshops and seminars to promote European and transatlantic values. In addition to the already existing contents of military-safety, especially in the security sector reform, in arms control, in security and trust building measures, civil aspects of cooperation will become increasingly relevant, in aspects of border control and management, dialogue with civil society, academic community, and in particular public opinion makers. Global threats to peace and security, terrorism and organised crime, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have been recognised at regional level as risks and challenges to be faced. Following the adoption of the Law confirming the RACVIAC Treaty, the Centre for Security Cooperation, will join the conclusion of the RACVIAC headquarters agreement between the Republic of Croatia and RACVIAC, which will discuss the issue of the benefits and immunities of RACVIAC, as an international organisation based in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that Croatia has a significant interest in full and active support for RACVIAC, given that its headquarters has been in Zagreb for many years, i.e. Rakitju. In this respect, Croatia has also provided adequate rooms, and the RACVIAC area is one of the Croatian foreign policy priorities, both in the context of Croatia as members of NATO, and in particular in the context of the approximation of the European Union, from the aspect of the European Union's security defence and foreign policy. I would only say that the recent marking of the 10th anniversary of RACVIAC at its headquarters on October 20th confirmed its success and above all its usefulness in the previous decade, and that all the participants and actors who participated in it supported its action on the basis of a reformed new contract signed in Budva. Confirmation of this international treaty creates a prerequisite for Croatia to become a full member and leader of RACVIAC in its role against all Southeast European countries, and to engage as a host in creating a precondition for a new centre that will be one of our most important aspects in the field of security cooperation, given that Croatia and the country are hosting this international organisation is certainly an important political signal to be among the first to ratify this international treaty. The Proposer agrees that this united debate is being held this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62158	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for the introduction. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Club of HSS Representatives, distinguished colleague Stanko Grčić. Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62159	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party supports the text in question of the draft laws and contracts, because they are in line with the security policy developed under the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which supports the objectives of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia to achieve security cooperation and cooperation on countries in the region and beyond. We see the Treaty itself as an important basis for establishing and intensifying security cooperation in our region. The adoption of the laws mentioned, i.e. by confirming the treaty, with other countries in the nearer environment and in this case with the interested countries of Southeast Europe, wants to clearly formulate the state's determination to improve the overall security area, i.e. make a strong contribution to the overall relations of the countries in the region to strengthen security itself. The fact is that in the last period RACVIAC has started a kind of transformation from the Regional Aid Centre in the verification and implementation of arms control at the Centre for Security Co-operation and is the new task of RACVIAC is to foster dialogue and cooperation in security issues in Southeast Europe through partnership with parties and their international partners. In fact, the situation in Southeast Europe has been constantly improving for the last 10 years, and most of the countries in the region are on their way into Euro-Atlantic integration. Some of the countries are, some are at the beginning, and some are already included, such as Croatia and Albania in the NATO alliance. In this regard, following the above mentioned and RACVIAC adapted and developed capacity for other areas, such as security reform and international and regional co-operation. In other words, RACVIAC has been established at the Centre for Security Co-operation, retaining a recognizable name since 2001, according to our knowledge of RACVIAC's work, around 30 countries are participating today, of which a large number from the region. However, it should be mentioned in all of this that the recession is still its own and that some countries may reduce their contribution by the number of representatives involved and by sponsoring the activities themselves. We are convinced that RACVIAC has a perspective and because it is designed for the specific needs of a region that is going through dynamic security changes and is able to react quickly and find new areas and forms of cooperation in the common interest of the countries of Southeast Europe. The fact is that activities related to dialogue and cooperation on security issues have become an important factor in improving common assistance between countries and that future competent institutions will more than this has ever been the case of more significant participation in the implementation of these and other tasks than we are in the common interest. In the area of security cooperation in the region and the formal legal framework, we believe that it is good for cooperation and other interested countries of the region to develop and accept concrete plans and cooperation programmes and to coordinate different interests. Following the above, we hope that the adoption of the laws and contracts in question relating to RACVIAC, which supports the head office in the Republic of Croatia, will confirm that our country is a leader in improving security in the region, which is not a negligible fact for our country. From all of this stated club, the HSS will support the proposals of this law, i.e. the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62160	Thank you, fellow MP. On behalf of the HDZ representative club, distinguished counterpart Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62161	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here's a brief comment we've already heard. On 8 March 2001, an agreement was concluded between the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of a Regional Aid Centre to verify the implementation of arms control with a view to improving arms control and promotion of trust and security measures, as well as the expansion of cooperation in Southeast Europe. According to this, the RACVIAC headquarters is set to be in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the provisions of the 2001 agreement, the Italian Republic joined that agreement on 21 August 2002, and on 15 September 2004, the Republic of Croatia did. All in all, given RACVIAC's contribution in the past period to verify the implementation of arms control, strengthening regional trust and cooperation, we can say that it was an institution that made a significant contribution to regional cooperation and strengthening trust. However, as circumstances change, priorities are also changed, tasks and it was natural for the RACVIAC-led body to consider new priorities and a new policy so that RACVIAC would also play an appropriate regional role in the future. In accordance with all of this, within the framework of the MAG, so-called the RACVIAC management body has become aware of the need to review the role of the RACVIAC so far, its objectives as well as its organisational structures in a way that responds as best and more successfully to the new security challenges as possible. In this respect, the MAG has taken a number of decisions and consideration of the future legal status and new RACVIAC strategy, taking into account the need to establish close regional cooperation in those areas which are more significant and more priority at the moment. It was said, border control, migration, the fight against terrorism, illegal trade, etc. So it's very simple. The MAG's decisions joined the reorganisation and modernisation of RACVIAC, which included the establishment of a new and termination of the legal framework so far through the conclusion of the RACVIAC Agreement with the head office of the Republic of Croatia. The Agreement establishing RACVIAC from 2001 would cease, by way of effect, the RACVIAC Treaty of the Regional Security Co-operation Centre or more specifically the Centre for Security Cooperation, as set out in the special Treaty on the termination of the agreement in question on 26 May 2010. All clean and simple and clear and for this reason, the HDZ Club will support the validation of the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62162	Thank you very much. Opinions and opinions on behalf of HNS-HSU's Club of Representatives will be given by a respected colleague, Miljenko Doric. Here's your colleague, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62163	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Very, very short. The HNS-HSU club will support the proposal of both laws. It seems absolutely logical to us that, after the end of the Stability Pact, there is a reorganisation and restructuring of a series of bodies, and finally the Regional Arms Control Headquarters. We find it much more meaningful, more logical that RACVIAC and the experience gained in working with it now turn into something really useful at regional level, and the establishment of the Centre for Security Cooperation is certainly one such step and we support it. It is encouraging that, at this initial stage, the agreement has already been signed as the secretary of state has said from eight countries in this area, and it seems to be a good start. What is also good is not going from zero, but we are using the experience gained so far of RACIVAC or Regional Armed Control Centre, which includes this multinational advisory body or group and secretariat as executive authority with that group. What also seems good to us is that in fact this is not a closed body for accession and other countries. There is, of course, an opportunity to approve the accession of other countries from this wider area, which is also good. What we also notice in the text and certainly should underline that decisions will be made by consensus, therefore there will be no overvote. It seems to me very important at this stage to say. The separation of individual countries also seems to be not too great. Our share for this year is about 200 and a few thousand something over little 200 thousand kuna, which would certainly be acceptable to us for the functioning of the Centre for Security Cooperation. The secretary of state explained to us what we couldn't read from the material itself, and I don't think we should add much more. What I might personally only want to underline is that Article 14 of the Agreement is related to human policy, that it will be in line with the principle of merit and respect for the requirements of justice, transparency, diversity and representation of all members. That's good, that's important. But we would very much like that to apply to Article 22 when the auxiliary staff is hired locally, and it should be as transparent as possible that what happens in us most often, it should then be a clear set of friends or party or tribal members. That's not good. Here we really need to choose the people who will be able, who will really contribute to establishing cooperation at the level of this centre, what kind of imaginary, security cooperation is, and that will be a major shift for us in this area. And I repeat, the HNS and HSU club will support this whole agreement that we've been offered here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62164	Thank you very much. We don't have any more club applications. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first application was by counterpart Niko Rebic. Here's your colleague, Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of this proposal for a law confirming a contract for the Centre for Security Co-operation will stop the agreement establishing a regional centre for the implementation of the control of weapons from 2001. The proposal for the establishment of a regional centre was launched by Germany and proposed it as a joint project within the Stability Pact in the Republic of Croatia. The regional centre has started to act as a multinational, regional centre for assistance in implementing the arms control agreement in the countries of Southeast Europe. Italy and Turkey joined the agreement afterwards. The 2001 agreement regulates the structure of a regional centre that overlooks the existence of a multinational advisory group acting as a supervisory and control body and makes decisions on the policy and activities of the centre. Given that Germany and Italy are now withdrawing from participation in the work of the regional centre, and in order to ensure legal continuity and legal traceability, the existence and functioning of a regional centre whose headquarters remains in the Republic of Croatia, this new contract on the Centre for Security Co-operation should be adopted. Eight countries participating in the South East European cooperation process through a mutual partnership, taking into account the continued development and change in the security environment, propose a reorganisation and modernisation of the centre, which includes the establishment of a new and termination of the current legal framework. The conclusion of a security co-operation centre contract based in Croatia is signed in April of this year by 8 interested countries participating in the Southeastern Europe co-operation process. For now, Romania has announced its intention to join the Security Co-operation Centre. The entry into force of the contract of the Centre for Security Cooperation is beginning to act as an international organisation of an independent and regional character. The task of this organisation is to cultivate dialogue, co-operation of security issues, in particular by Member States, and how, among other things, it affects security sector reform in this area. The Centre shall act through its bodies of a multinational advisory group authorised to make measurement decisions and shall consist of a representative of each member. This Treaty also addresses the issue of privileges and immunities for individual categories of staff living and working in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as host countries. The objectives are to strengthen stability and security in the region, transfer of knowledge and experience, and achieve Euro-Atlantic standards in the application of security mechanisms. During the 10 years of successful operation, the centre has been confirmed. Confirmation of this international contract creates a prerequisite for the Republic of Croatia as a host country in which the headquarters of this international organisation is located, to be the first State to sign this contract which has actually confirmed the contract in question. For all these reasons, I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62166	Thanks a lot, buddy. And he also applied for the debate, distinguished colleague Mato Biljic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary. So here's just a few more words about the contribution to signing this. To date, RACVIAC has organised over 230 different seminar activities in the area of security in the region with more than 700 thousand participants, primarily from Southeast Europe, meaning from the existence of 8 March 2001 which will certainly be able to apply, means experience to new members such as Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Greece, Croatia, Macedonia and Serbia and the old members of Turkey, as well as the announcements of Romania themselves to join it. So their task is to provide dialogue and cooperation on security issues of Southeast Europe through the organisation of seminars and workshops, particularly participating countries, and thus to encourage security reforms. What is most important is the control of arms as well as other measures to build security, trust, assistance in disaster procedures, surveillance, border management, the fight against terrorism, and the promotion of close cooperation with organisations and institutions such as NATO, the European Union, the OSCE and dialogue with civil society, the academic community and what is very important to public opinion makers. From all the above and what my colleagues have said, I will certainly support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62168	Thank you, fellow representative. Proposer? There's no need. Therefore, I am also concluding the 13th and 14th points of the agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62169	13. Final proposal of the Law confirming the RACVIAC Treaty, Centre for Security Cooperation. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimously with 98 votes in favour, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62184	And we're moving on. Point 15, no conditions, no parent committee held a session. And we'll continue with the 16th agenda. It is - Final draft law on humanitarian aid, second reading, P.Z. No. 525 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The amendments shall be submitted by the end of the debate. It has been implemented so far by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. We've received reports from the board. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care. On behalf of the promoter here is State Secretary Dr Ante Zvonimir Golem. Secretary, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Here is the final proposal for a humanitarian aid law. Since he passed the debate, allow us to look a little more today at what was accepted from the previous debate or not. Therefore, according to the discussion conducted in the first reading, the provisions of Articles 2 and 4 have been complemented by the provisions of Articles 2 and 4 which provide all humanitarian aid on the basis of the debate of several MPs and have also increased the penalties for offenders in articles where penalties are mentioned, to the request, or to the hearing of several MPs. The proposal was also adopted and was included in article 16 of the proposal by the representative Bagaric to include provisions on the award of the State Prize for humanitarian work. In the section also proposed by more legislators during the parliamentary debate, Article 15 provides for tax and customs reliefs that humanitarian aid providers achieve. They are not accepted because the subject of tax and customs reliefs are clearly stated in the tax or customs regulations, and in practice it would not be good to do particular work, especially now, of the specificity of the specialis under this law. In today's debate here, we can answer further questions. The Committee on Health has also prepared an amendment, and I can immediately say that given the better regulation of Articles 5 and 7 and, as regards the request for a certificate of possible criminal record, we accept the interpretation and amendments of the Committee on Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62186	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, dear colleague Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Health Committee has discussed the proposal as a parent working body and the report will point out that the adoption of this law defines an organisation primarily involved in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, various forms of humanitarian aid and target groups in line with the existing needs of society in the field of collection and provision of humanitarian aid. Provisions on the organisation of humanitarian actions are further introduced and, instead of the notion of humanitarian organisations, the notion of legal persons who have obtained a solution for the collection and provision of humanitarian aid is introduced. The legislative proposal allowed the collection and provision of humanitarian assistance to registered domestic and foreign non-profit legal persons, i.e. legal persons enrolled in the relevant register in the Republic of Croatia. As a recognition for exceptional achievements and a contribution to the development and promotion of humanitarian work in the Republic of Croatia, the State Prize for humanitarian work awarded by the Republic of Croatia as a reward for life, as well as an annual prize, as well as conditions and method of award, shall be established. It also supported the proposal to increase penalties for violations committed by violations of the provisions of this law. After extensive discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of the Final Proposal for a Law on humanitarian aid with the following amendments. Amendment 1. In Article 3(4) beyond the words "non-profit" the words are added: "legal persons to whom the collection of humanitarian aid is not an activity". I'm not going to read the explanations, you're all going to get it in writing, I'm just going to read the text of the amendment. Amendment 2. In Article 5(2), paragraph 4 is amended and reads: "Convincing, not more than three months old, that no criminal proceedings are being conducted against the responsible person in the legal person." In Article 5(4), paragraph 5 is added, which reads as follows: "The competent office shall, by official duty, obtain proof that the person responsible, the applicant, has not been given a security measure to prohibit the performance of the call, activity or duty." Amendment 3. In Article 7(4), the wording behind the word "convincation" is deleted and a new text is added, which reads: "not more than three months of age, that a person responsible or responsible in a legal person is not subject to criminal proceedings." On the basis of these amendments, subject to their acceptance by the proposings, we believe that another reading of this law should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62188	Thank you very much, Doctor. We're going to a club debate right now. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62189	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. So humanitarian aid has been working on our premises since 1878, as part of the work of the Croatian Red Cross, which is within the Red Cross of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Since 1991, the Croatian Red Cross has been acting as an independent national society in which direct delivery of humanitarian aid is granted, and since '91. until '98. In the year Croatian Red Cross acts as the largest humanitarian organization to help hundreds of thousands of victims of war from exiles, refugees to other victims of war casualties. The humanitarian aid law was first adopted in 2003 and it arranged for the collection and distribution of humanitarian aid in the Republic of Croatia. Today, we have before us a new draft humanitarian aid law that is partly aligned with the gains that are worth in the European Union. To point out that the European Union is one of the largest humanitarian aid suppliers to a large number of countries in Europe and the world. Each year, the European Commission provides assistance worth more than 7 billion euros. The proposed Law on humanitarian aid regulates in a more quality way the concept of humanitarian aid itself. They better define organisations that are primarily involved in the collection and distribution of humanitarian aid. In the application of the applicable law, there were a large number of non-profit legal entities to provide humanitarian aid, while collecting and providing humanitarian aid was not their primary activity. The applicable law no longer meets the purpose of collecting and providing humanitarian aid, as non-profit legal persons are not obliged to obtain consent from the competent ministry but are often supplied for the purpose of achieving tax and customs relief. The area of collection and distribution of humanitarian aid is a particularly sensitive area and must therefore be precisely governed by the law and the necessary regulations. Profit and injustice, especially when it comes from this area where human suffering must be eliminated and punished with the most severe punishment. Profitating in the most difficult human moments is the lowest form of profit, it's just a crime that needs to be made public and severely punished and not to go into obsolescence. Unfortunately, there are plenty of examples, in times of these very human disasters and sufferings, individuals rich and benefit themselves, so that there are various forms of profit from wartime to humanitarian. And that is why rules as well as the judicial system are important in the ruthless punishment of such persons. The proposed law has been decentralised with regard to the adoption of a solution approving the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, which would be issued in the future by the competent administration offices in the counties. So far, those who have been collecting humanitarian aid have addressed the Ministry of Health and Social Care and have received tax relief or been exempt from value added tax, and from now on will be the competent offices of the state administration in the counties, which will also carry out inspection checks on legal persons’ headquarters while the ministry will exercise administrative supervision. The registration of legal persons in the country and will be managed by the Ministry of Health and Social Care as the competent offices keep records of the solutions issued. Instead of the idea of humanitarian organisations, the concept of legal persons who have obtained a solution to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid is introduced. The collection and provision of humanitarian aid would allow registered domestic and foreign non-profit legal entities registered in the register of the register of the Republic of Croatia. I would only mention that humanitarian organisations deal with the common good while collecting and providing humanitarian aid is only part of this humanitarian work. The general provisions of the law also contain a new provision on anti-discrimination that emphasises that humanitarian aid is provided to all victims of socially sensitive groups regardless of race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, age, disability and other characteristics. The humanitarian aid provided to socially sensitive groups could be extremely collected and distributed by natural persons, as well as by a profitable legal person through the organisation of humanitarian actions. But they have to notify the County Office of State Administration first. Finally, I will stress that for all types of humanitarian aid, humanitarian actions are prescribed mandatory records and reports that are available to the public to ensure transparency and encourage public support, and that the best award for humanitarian work will also be awarded to those who are in it. The Croatian Democratic Community club supported the adoption of this new bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62190	Thank you very much, counsel. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished colleague, Danica Hursa. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Under the proposal of this Act, the humanitarian aid law adopted in this House in 2003 is being upgraded and improved. The proposal for this law says humanitarian aid can be collected and provided by both domestic and non-profit legal entities registered in the corresponding register in the Republic of Croatia. The humanitarian aid involved in the victims of natural disasters and the human-induced crises can also be provided by the authorities of the state administration in accordance with special regulations, and exceptional humanitarian aid in the form of the organisation of humanitarian actions can be collected and provided by natural persons and by profitable legal persons. This legislative proposal puts the local community in charge of keeping the prescribed records, as well as conducting controls on the provision and collection of humanitarian aid, which will certainly contribute to greater transparency. Procedures relating to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid will be carried out by the Office of State Administration’s social activities in the county responsible for the seat of the legal person, and this is one of the newspapers in relation to the applicable law. State administrations would also supervise the work of legal and natural persons, who collect and provide humanitarian assistance, or organise humanitarian actions, and administrative oversight of the implementation of this law would remain in the power of the ministry responsible for social care affairs. The Ministry of Social Affairs would continue to keep records of legal persons who have been granted a solution granting authorisation for the collection and provision of humanitarian aid for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, while the competent offices would keep those records in the area of their local jurisdiction. The general provisions of the legislative proposal also contain a provision on anti-discrimination, which provides humanitarian assistance to all victims, and socially sensitive groups regardless of race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, age, disability, or other characteristics. For all types of humanitarian aid, and for humanitarian actions mandatory records and reports are prescribed, subject to public availability to ensure transparency and to encourage public support. By a new legislative proposal, all humanitarian aid providers in the supply or import of the goods needed for one of the purposes shall make the concessions prescribed by customs and tax regulations. This legislative proposal introduces a state award for humanitarian work and criminal provisions, which has not been prescribed by the applicable law. We have also heard the amendments of the Committee on Health and Social Care, which will further specify Articles 3, 5 and 7. We think it's a good thing, so we'll support those amendments and the final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62192	Thank you, colleague. And on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives, distinguished colleague Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support the adoption of the Law on humanitarian aid, as these amendments aim to better define the rules when it comes to such noble activity. I will remind everyone here that Croatia received humanitarian aid during the Homeland War, which was very valuable to us at these difficult times. Unfortunately, there were also those who, instead of delivering this humanitarian aid to those in need, used it for their own gain. While one night they were left without their homes, and with a bag they were looking for where to spend the night, some others had shoes or you know intended for them sold in thighs, oil and flour on stands, and the money that came to buy the children a sandwich they put on their bills. Of course, there were more of those organizations that gave absolutely everything they had, but also whose members as good Samaritans gave theirs. Many have survived their most difficult days thanks to these very humanitarian organizations, and this humanitarian aid has survived. Nothing in life is black white, and of course, after all, everything always comes down to just one man. However, such sensitive questions regarding human suffering and distress should not be left to our moral habitat alone, but they need to be regulated in detail by law. In the Republic of Croatia, the Law on humanitarian aid, which was adopted in 2003, regulates the way humanitarian aid is collected and distributed, and the law, in our opinion, has certain shortcomings, so it is necessary to improve it and we think that this new law offers these improvements, with a view to stressing that we will also support the amendments that the Committee on Health and Social Care has made to the proposer on behalf of the HSS Club. It is therefore important to improve this law from the aspect of a number of humanitarian actions that are also being organised and for which we believe in the club HSS that they have one uniquely noble goal of helping people in need. But, of course, there are hunters in the blurry, there are abuses happening, so help does not reach the right place, and some humanitarian actions unfortunately end with a minus, so it seems to us that we still need to strengthen inspection and control, and study who is doing these jobs well. The new legislative proposal precisely distinguishes the collected material and financial resources, psychosocial assistance and humanitarian activities, in order to protect and rescue victims of natural disasters, and victims of human-induced crises, from the collected material and financial goods provided to socially sensitive groups in order to meet the basic needs of life. The new legislative proposal, in our opinion, defines in a clearer way the types of humanitarian aid, aid providers and target groups. In particular, psychosocial assistance to socially sensitive groups is provided through project co-financing as a kind of social service, while humanitarian aid involves only psychosocial assistance to victims of natural disasters and victims of crises caused by human activity. In addition to the provisions on the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, provisions on occasional collection and provision of humanitarian aid are introduced, and the organisation of humanitarian actions. The legislative proposal regulates that humanitarian aid can be collected and provided by domestic and non-profit legal persons registered or registered in an appropriate register in the Republic of Croatia, whose activities are the collection and provision of humanitarian aid. Furthermore, humanitarian aid related to victims of natural disasters and crises caused by human activity can be provided by the authorities of the state administration, competent under special regulations and extremely humanitarian aid in the form of humanitarian actions can be collected and provided by both natural persons and profitable legal persons. This legislative proposal shall continue the process of binding to the local community and with regard to the conduct of the proceedings in connection with the collection and provision of humanitarian aid and the keeping of the prescribed records and the conduct of controls which will make the aid specified more accessible to whoever is intended and in the best possible way to achieve the purpose of collecting and providing humanitarian aid and the transparency of the procedure itself. As already mentioned in the general provisions of the legislative proposal, the anti-discrimination provision is also contained. For all types of humanitarian aid as well as for humanitarian actions reports have been prescribed, subject to public availability, to ensure transparency and to encourage public support, which we in the HSS club particularly support. By a new legislative proposal, all humanitarian aid providers in the supply or import of the goods needed for one of the purposes shall make the concessions prescribed by customs and tax regulations. It is our opinion that better solutions should be found in this segment than existing ones because, for example, the state charges VAT to the Association for the Transport of Persons with Disabilities, which was obtained as a donation, and then happens that the bus is unfortunately standing, is not in operation because it cannot be put into service because the association does not have enough money to pay the VAT. These are exactly the kind of cases that warn us of certain illogicalities that occur in practice, which are the consequence of the laws that we here in the Croatian Parliament are making. Finally, I would like to praise the activities of all humanitarian organisations, and especially the Croatian Caritas whose volunteers witness daily love for their neighbor and those who are in need, and I believe that this year and a large number of citizens, but also you MPs and MPs, will be included in the action of the Croatian Caritas "For a thousand joys" in which only last year assistance for 2 thousand families is provided in need, and over these seven years more than 26 million kunas have been collected. So here I invite you to help with your contribution to keep this action going this year and that each one of us really turns on someone else's light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62194	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Stjepan Kundić first checked in. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62195	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here it is, as we have heard, because the applicable law of 3 June 2003 has become incompetent to say to the medical dictionary, so it does not satisfy the purpose of collecting and providing humanitarian aid because non-profit legal persons who collect and provide humanitarian aid are not obliged to obtain consent from the competent ministry, but are most often supplied for the purpose of achieving tax and customs relief, there is a need to improve this law and a new proposal under P.Z. No. 525. In addition, existing records of the Ministry of Health and Social Care relating to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid primarily relate to the number of humanitarian organisations and aid programmes, not to the total collection and provision of humanitarian aid in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the new legislative proposal precisely distinguishes the collected material and financial goods, psychosocial assistance and humanitarian activities in order to protect and rescue victims of natural disasters and victims of crises caused by human activity from the collected material and financial goods provided to socially sensitive groups in order to meet the basic needs of life. Given the emergence of new forms of humanitarian aid and the interest of the wider humanitarian aid community, this is what I said, the need to establish a new legal framework that has important objectives. First, regulation means new forms of humanitarian aid, second profiling of non-profit legal persons whose activity, collection and provision of humanitarian aid, third extension of the humanitarian aid provider network, fourth higher availability of users, fifth no less important assurance of transparency in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, and lastly, it would list the complete records of collected and provided humanitarian aid in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Provisions on the occasional collection and provision of humanitarian aid and the organisation of humanitarian actions are also introduced. Instead of the idea of humanitarian organisations, the concept of legal persons who have obtained a solution to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid is introduced. Procedures relating to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid in accordance with this legislative proposal will be carried out by the Office of State Administration’s social activities in the county responsible for the seat of the legal person, not by the city’s health and social care offices in the ministry responsible for social care matters as prescribed so far. As regards inspection supervision of the work of legal and natural persons who collect and provide humanitarian assistance, or organise humanitarian actions would be carried out by those offices of the state administration. Administrative oversight of the implementation of this law would remain in the power of the ministry responsible for social care affairs. The Ministry of Social Affairs would continue to record legal persons who have been granted a solution granting authorisation for the collection and provision of humanitarian aid for the Republic of Croatia. While the competent offices would keep those records in the area of their local jurisdiction. And as I said, three are the basic goals to conclude your debate. So, the first was an anti-discrimination provision that provides humanitarian aid to all victims and socially sensitive groups regardless of race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, age, disability and other traits. Secondly, it is introduced a state-run award which was covered by humanitarian work which can be awarded as a recognition for exceptional achievements and contributes to the development and promotion of humanitarian work in the Republic of Croatia. The third, no less important, because of the very control of the entire criminal provision process, which was not prescribed by the applicable law. I thank you, and I will support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62196	Thank you very much, counsel. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62197	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that there is no doubt that the new humanitarian aid law is definitely necessary, given that this law, which is currently in force in 2003, is definitely a bit outdated. However, I am not entirely sure that this bill that we are discussing today in the second reading solves all the problems that needed to be solved by the new draft Law on humanitarian aid. I would first of all refer to that unresolved question about so-called. the tax relief remains the principle so far where the first humanitarian action is organised and after that organisational action can apply to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or to the competent authorities to actually reject this amount of VAT, i.e. to recover that amount. I think it was nevertheless necessary to regulate this issue in some way in this bill, especially when it comes to major humanitarian actions that concern some kind of disaster and the like, where I really don't see any possibility why it couldn't have happened before such funds started to be collected, immediately agree that these funds don't have to be charged, and VAT on that. I would refer to a few other things that seem rather vague to me, or I may not understand them enough in this bill, which primarily refers to Article 4 where paragraph 4 says that "a natural person within the meaning of this law cannot be an organizer of a humanitarian action aimed at collecting assistance for the personal needs or needs of family members, nor does he use his own account or family account to organise humanitarian action." Since so far in Croatian history, since independence in the 1990s, we have had a whole series of different humanitarian actions that have been organised by the very people who, in some medical sense, really needed help, so I will remind this meaning of the case of Ana Rukavina, which eventually grew into a trust, it was about initiatives or those sick persons themselves, or of their relatives, and where it was actually meant to act at the hot bar. It seems to me that this bill actually makes such initiatives impossible, and I'm not sure if that's the best solution. It also states in Article 5(4) that the legal persons referred to in Article 4(1) of this Act are obliged to obtain. And it is now said that "The need for the competent court's conviction is not more than three months old that the responsible person in the legal person is not convicted of a criminal offence against life and the body, against the freedom and rights of man and citizen against the Republic of Croatia, against sexual freedom and sexual disorder, whatever that means, against marriage, family and youth, against public order or against official duty, and that those crimes against that person are not subject to criminal proceedings". Since all humanitarian actions are mainly about collecting some material goods, i.e. most often money is not clear to me why some parts such as economic crime have not been found in this item. This also applies to Article 7(4), where no economic crime or any such action is mentioned either by word or I think it is also absolutely unacceptable for legal or natural persons involved in such activities to have in some way the possibility of being under such a doubt at all. I would also refer to the paragraph 3 of Article 7 of this proposal of the law which states that the legal and natural persons referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article are "required to apply for prior consent to the competent office at least 30 days before the planned start of the activity". However, what if it is an urgent goal? It seems to me that such a bureaucratic obstacle can make it very difficult for very valuable humanitarian actions, so I'm not sure that's the way it should be. In view of these indiscretions, or at least to me, it is not clear how the proposer really meant to solve these problems, I am not sure that I can support such a bill as was given to us in this second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62198	Thank you. A distinguished colleague colleague, Ljubica Lukačić, also applied for the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62199	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In previous exhibitions, we have heard a lot about why a new Law on humanitarian aid is needed. And here I am at the beginning to say that I fully support the adoption of this law. We have heard what it is and how it regulated the current law that is no longer so good and therefore we are bringing new ones that regulates new forms of humanitarian aid in this final proposal, profiling non-profit legal persons whose activities are the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, the expansion of the humanitarian aid network, greater availability of users, ensuring transparency in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, and complete records of collected and provided humanitarian aid in the area of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to these provisions on the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, this proposal also introduces provisions on the occasional collection and provision of humanitarian aid and on the organisation of humanitarian actions. Instead of the idea of humanitarian organisations that we have so far under the applicable law, the concept of legal persons who have obtained a solution to the collection and provision of humanitarian aid is introduced. Furthermore, this new law provides for a more precise distinction between collected material and financial goods, psychosocial assistance and humanitarian activities in order to protect and rescue victims of natural disasters, victims of crises caused by human activity. And what I think is important is to say that psychosocial assistance to socially sensitive groups is provided through project financing as a kind of social service. While humanitarian aid involves only that psychosocial aid to victims of natural disasters and victims of human-induced crises. I'd like to look back here briefly on these articles 5 and 7. I must certainly say that I support these amendments to the Health Committee and I think that if the Proposer accepts them, and I believe there is no reason not to, that they will, in any case, improve the quality of this law. And just one sentence about what my colleague Holly just said, why there are no other crimes in those articles. In fact, these amendments, proposed by the Health Committee, I am not going to tell this law, but this law will not be against the Penal Code because, according to the Penal Code, no one has the right to ask for such conviction about the judgment of someone or the indemnity of someone. And exactly as the board suggested it should be. So here, I support this. I would especially like to point out that it is a good thing that, on the proposal of certain representatives in the first reading, we have been strengthened and sanctioned since we have had many cases so far to organise humanitarian actions. I've got to say, unfortunately, it was, for some I know, and I'm not going to mention them here right now, it was among the organizations of people with disabilities, to collect a certain cash supply aid, for example. orthopaedic aids, etc., without that aid ever reaching the end users, unfortunately. In order for this to stop happening, it is good that the law has provided for such criminal provisions. I would also like to point out as a good provision, an anti-discrimination provision in this law, and here I am particularly pleased that the promoter also accepted the proposal from his colleague Bagaric, who pointed out in his first reading that it would be good to introduce the State Prize, so here I commend this acceptance of his proposal. In any case, I think this is a good bill and that it will achieve what is most important, control in the collection and provision of humanitarian aid, and that this humanitarian aid eventually reaches those most needed and collected. Once again, here I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62200	Thank you, colleague. And the latest so far is the individual application of distinguished colleague Romana Jerkovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So the collection of humanitarian aid should be encouraged and a quality legislative framework certainly contributes. I believe that this law is in some way a quality step in relation to what we had, in relation to the law that was inadequate in terms of time and events, and in the first reading, we agreed that this bill would introduce order into this area. There are more detailed ways to organise humanitarian aid and humanitarian actions and what is very good, and many infringements have been introduced, which will certainly contribute to its kind of control. It is extremely important to create all the preconditions to collect and distribute humanitarian aid, organise humanitarian actions in a very transparent way, to prevent abuses. The abuse was, we know, and the damage is great, and in that sense, it's good to have a quality legislative framework. I must express my regret that somewhere along the lines of what my colleague Holly said, which was not appreciated by the remarks of several of my colleagues who spoke about the payment or obligation to pay VAT on humanitarian aid. Therefore, Article 15 of the Law, which defined that donors or humanitarian aid collectors are entitled to tax and customs relief in accordance with customs and tax laws, is disputed. It's a pity we couldn't arrange for the first VAT not to be charged, but if we didn't do it then we could more precisely state in the law who it was freed from VAT, of course not in the way that it was governed by tax law, but at least we could do it in principle. So it doesn't take too much sense to conclude that there's no logic and that it's a little absurd for citizens, so socially social awareness to collect money for example. Some kind of medical device to eventually realize that through VAT that they had to give to the state they could buy another such instrument. The Ministry of Finance and the Government can give up VAT if they want to, but in a number of cases I know they don't. Of course, Mr. Secretary of State can deny me here, and he'll probably say that the ministry returns VAT if whoever organizes the humanitarian action asks for it. I know a lot of cases in which the ministry was both deaf and blind for memos addressed, most often not worthy or sent a negative answer. So, I think if VAT were not paid to make a lot more donations, neither companies nor individuals were stimulated to donations. I think it's a shame that the state is so relieved of these funds, the more we know that in a number of countries, the state encourages donations through tax reliefs. There's another example that goes in favor of what I'm talking about. There is not long to launch a truly commendable action involving both Caritas and food-donating trade chains that are nearing the end of the duration. Therefore, trade chains want to donate this to a humanitarian organisation dealing with the distribution of such a type of aid, but they are obliged to pay VAT on that donation. It is clear, then, that everyone without exception, choosing between paying taxes on goods and destroying, i.e. throwing goods, will choose this last. And it is a pity, indeed, that today with so many poor and needy, we are no longer hearing or changing the laws in this regard to the better for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62202	Thank you very much, colleague. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. In conclusion, Secretary of State Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62203	Dear Mr. Vice President, allow me instead of the closing words to give perhaps just a few arguments because it seems to me that in today's debate perhaps something was not clear. So it's about the next one. I'll start by reading the article they were listed so it was a question these 30 days before planning the start of the activity. Article 5 and Article 7 of this Act differs from that in Article 5 concerning that part of the law to which the basic activity is humanitarian work, and Article 7 is legal, domestic, by non-profit legal persons as stated by the provision of humanitarian aid is not a basic activity. In the event of a disaster or anything else that we were aware of internationally, and not domestic. So the spot response we think should be regulated and some indicators will work and will certainly be qualityd through those humanitarian legal entities in the Republic of Croatia that have this as a basic activity. On the other hand, for many praises of valuable humanitarian actions that are being prepared and prepared for more than 30 days, we have also checked this, because in the draft law we have used experience in the last five years of the implementation of humanitarian actions it is evident that this deadline is not a problem, and it will give enough time for the humanitarian action to be safely implemented. And I would also say that based on certain events, and based on certain indicators, we have said that we have divided humanitarian actions into three parts. One part is just organising humanitarian action, but we have a constant collection and provision of humanitarian aid, occasional collection as a category and category of humanitarian action organisation. In Article 4, which is stated here, we have made it clear that humanitarian in paragraph 3 can provide both a natural person and a profitable and non-profit legal person, and Article 4 should only prevent those things that you read about daily in some way and in the media, which is something that our citizens who opt for one humanitarian action and who decide to assist such humanitarian action are certain that this humanitarian action is indeed for that purpose and done. Unfortunately, if everything were the way everyone wanted it to be and that humanitarian work was just what humanitarian work is, it wouldn't be very likely. Since this framework is legal, we simply want to ensure that citizens continue to have their own safety and that all praises of valuable actions that we have checked from the action are here for the "Ane Rukavina" Foundations and to RTL helps children and any other actions that might be listed today. Therefore, the adoption of such a law will only strengthen these commendable actions and give security to the citizens that they are in this direction and arranged. Those observations which have been and have been subject to the amendment. So, in the amendment, I'm going to do it here now, which I said immediately at the beginning to accept, and I'm going to do it again, so on behalf of the promoter, the amendment is being accepted and it's said that it means, it's mandatory to get first, the competent office, and secondly, that no security measure has been imposed against the exercise of activity or duty. So we got a better formula, which then includes the story of economic crime and everything else. So it wasn't intention but simply finding a better statement and that statement we got here today in the form of an amendment committee. So I believe that accepting it may not be something when it's legally written completely lay clear, but we believe that this law will give its purpose, which is that humanitarian and humanitarian aid continue to develop in Croatia and prevent possible manipulations. As far as tax and customs regulations are concerned, here I have said what is said in the opening statement, we are still standing by that it may be better arranged, but for now the tax and customs regulations determine it and would not include it in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62204	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the full conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62205	Final proposal of the Law on humanitarian aid, second reading. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on humanitarian aid. Please let us vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour and 1 abstention, the humanitarian aid law was passed along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62206	And now we move on to the 17th point of the agenda, which is - The final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of defence, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 624. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When setting up the agenda, we agreed and agreed to an emergency procedure and conduct the debate in accordance with the procedure for emergency procedure prescribed. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and the Defence Committee. Reports from the board's session have been received. The proposer's representative here is State Secretary at the defence ministry Pierre Simunovic wants to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62207	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am honored to present to you the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on defence cooperation with the final draft law. It's an emergency procedure, a united first and second reading. In view of the nature of the procedure, the confirmation of international contracts with which the state and formally express its willingness to be bound by such an international contract as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is generally impossible to amend or supplement the text of the international contract, this draft law is proposed to be discussed by an urgent procedure as I have said. In addition to the draft law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also delivers the preliminary opinion of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. The Republic of Croatia will fulfil the internal and legal conditions for the application of the provisions of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on defence cooperation, thus creating a legal framework for the establishment and intensive implementation of the defence cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia in the areas listed in the Agreement. The relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia in the area of defence makes a strong contribution to the overall relations between the two states, the continued progress and co-operation of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces in the context of their tasks to strengthen security and peace in the region. Definitely this Agreement comes on the trail of similar other agreements between the two countries, comes to the chase of the general process of normalisation and development of good neighbourhood and, in turn, makes a significant contribution to further strengthening such a form of cooperation, which is one of the essential interests of the Republic of Croatia and political and security. And what is particularly important, here is what I can pass on right now to this House of Commons is the fact that the agreement played a strong role in strengthening the position of the Republic of Croatia in the international community primarily within NATO, within the European Union where it was welcomed as a special expression of maturity and ability to self-initiately two states with a special position of the Republic of Croatia, means as members of NATO, as a country that is at the door of the European Union, of course by the Republic of Serbia, as an active partner in this Agreement, to contribute in one mature way to their mutual relations that are important for the stabilisation and good neighbourship and general regional stability in this part of Europe. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Branko Vukelic, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Dragan Sutanovac, signed during a visit to Minister Sutanovac Zagreb in June this year, which was in itself a significant event, which was the first such visit, the first one a bilateral meeting and a conversation between the defence ministers of the two countries. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of defence shall be governed by defence cooperation through exchange of experiences and expertise through working meetings, conferences and seminars, training and education programmes, participation in military exercises, and other ways in which the parties agree. The agreement is a continuation, the agreement does not launch such cooperation as the agreement talks about, but simply gives it a stronger formal framework, rises to a higher political level... the internal legal framework for the application of a series of new cooperation instruments, however, cooperation has been established very well over these years, and very constructive, on the mutual interest and political and defence and military both of the countries, in a number of areas, exchange of experiences, meetings, consultations, participation of our experts in some special forms of training and education in the Republic of Serbia, the reputation of their Centre for Chemical Biological Defence in Kruševec. [[You don't understand.]] The participation of their experts in our Croatian-military university, cooperation on education and training is particularly highlighted in this agreement. Other areas are security policy and defence planning, meaning transparency in the design of plans of one and the other country, close cooperation as a measure of strengthening trust between the two countries, military-science cooperation, military education as I said, military medicine, military police cooperation and special peace support operations, which is one area where the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have highlighted themselves as a significant factor in international stability. For its part, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Serbia and their Ministry of Defence also have everything, an increasingly strong interest in participation in such operations, which opens up a significant new area of cooperation from the point of view, with the aim of contributing to regional stability, with the aim of strengthening the defence capabilities of both countries and with the aim of strengthening our international position. The implementation of this law, ladies and gentlemen, does not require additional funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, since cooperation will take place through the activities of the Ministry of Defence, and the funds from the state budget intended for the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces will be used, meaning in the context of the general action of the Ministry of Defence, this agreement will be applied. Here. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We're moving on to, club reporters, actually committees? There isn't. Clubs, then. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished colleague Mato Biljic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of defence, with the final proposal for a law. Given the need to contribute to strengthening peace, stability and the development of relations between countries in Europe and the world, in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations, assessing the positive process and integration in Europe, stressing the need for comprehensive co-operation through strengthening the confidence and security measures of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia concluded in Zagreb on 8 June 2010 an Agreement on Defence Cooperation. The relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia in the area of defence makes a strong contribution to the overall relationship between the two countries, continued progress and co-operation of the Ministry of Defence in the context of their tasks to strengthen security in the region. The established relations between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence require an extension of co-operation and an increase in its scope, as the largest number of activities so far have been achieved by bilateral meetings, visits by the Armed Forces delegation. The Republic of Croatia will meet the internal legal requirements for the application of the provisions of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of defence, as soon as a legal framework is established to establish and intensify defence cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia in the areas governed by the Agreement. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of defence shall be governed by defence cooperation through exchange of experiences, expertise through working meetings, seminars, conferences, training programmes, training, participation in exercises, and other ways agreed. Cooperation will take place in the field of security policy from defence planning, military-science cooperation, military education, military medicine, military police cooperation, peace support operations, nuclear-biological protection cooperation, military-technical cooperation, and other areas of common interest. The Agreement shall be applied provisionally from the date of signature concluded at a specified time, and each of the parties may by letter notify the other Party by diplomatic means of that resignation to enter into force 6 months after receiving... Since it is an agreement on military nature, according to our Constitution, the conclusion and execution of international contracts is subject to confirmation before the Croatian Parliament. [[You don't understand.]] The HDZ Club supports the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62210	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club, distinguished colleague Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62211	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party supports the text in question of the draft laws and agreements, because they are in line with the security policy developed under the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is developed by the Ministry of Defence, which actually supports the objectives of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia to achieve security cooperation with neighbouring countries. We see the agreement as an important basis for establishing and intensifying the international defence cooperation of the Republic of Croatia in the region, especially with countries with which we haven't had much of an idyllic relationship since the time of the Homeland War, but perhaps a little here for the sake of symbolism perhaps from today these relations start to move in a positive direction. Therefore, the adoption of this law, i.e. by confirming an agreement with the Republic of Serbia, wants to clearly formulate the state's determination to improve the overall area of security, i.e. a strong contribution is made to the overall relations between the two countries, continued progress and co-operation of the Ministry of Defence in the context of their tasks to strengthen security throughout the region. The fact is that the activities of the delirious defence have become an important factor in improving joint assistance between the countries and that future competent institutions will more than this has ever been a case of major participation in the implementation of these and other tasks of common interest to us. Let's just remember that the Republic of Serbia has recently reached an agreement with neighbouring countries, which has created conditions for safe havens in a closer environment for criminals or other similar problems. The subject defence agreement was written with an emphasis on professional and operational cooperation, and we also consider it a formal legal framework for cooperation between Croatia and Serbia on the basis of which concrete plans and programmes of professional and operational cooperation will be developed and adopted, bringing interests into line through working meetings, seminars and conferences, training and education programmes, participation in exercises and other arrangements agreed between the parties. Cooperation will also be achieved in areas of security policy and defence planning, military-science cooperation and military education. Also through the cooperation of the Military Police, through operations in support of peace, and clearly through military-technical cooperation and other areas of common interest to us. Following this, we hope that the adoption of this law will facilitate the work of our competent institutions, and in particular we are referring to the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, that with partners from the Signatory State of the Agreement, including those relating to the treatment of classified data on the resolution of some financial issues, then medical protection and compensation for damages. We believe that all these problems will be resolved more easily in the future. And from everything here on out, this club of HSS will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of HNS-HSU Representatives, distinguished colleague Miljenko Doric. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62213	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to shorten as much as we can and don't repeat ourselves because my colleagues before me said what I should actually say, I'd maybe just two more sentences about something we missed out on. In fact, we all agreed an hour ago to ratify the Treaty on the formation of the RACVIAC Centre for Security Cooperation, so a multilateral agreement. Now we're going towards making bilateral agreements with our neighbours, which is good, which all together will only contribute to the security situation and that objection of course we can't have. What is still important here is that Croatia will be, I would call it in a geographical sense, a border state between the EU and the countries that will wait for some more time to join the EU will also be a state at the border between NATO and countries that will either wait for some more time to join NATO or have no claim at all to join NATO, and Serbia seems to be one of such countries. For this reason, our position is important in this security sense because we will be the ones who provide it, let us call it a good neighbourly policy, which the EU and NATO want at their borders to be stable areas and Croatia will certainly make it easier for such multilateral and bilateral agreements to play this very important role both for the EU and for NATO. My colleagues told me before which areas we regulate with this agreement. We believe that all articles of this agreement are properly drawn up. It's a little unusual that he's only in art. 12. stated that disputes will be settled through consultation and negotiations but we believe that this will be the case, and often in some particularly financial situations disputes cannot be resolved simply as easily, but we agree that in this case we should try to solve possible disputed areas. Therefore, the HNS-HSU club will absolutely support this proposal of the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, so we will clearly vote and raise our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62214	Thank you very much, fellow representative. And on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club, counterpart Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62215	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and MPs. The HDSSB club will not support this bill for any number of reasons. And at the beginning, I would like the time at which this agenda point is discussed in front of the half-empty assembly at the end of the working day to speak only for itself about what kind of reaction the Croatian public is expecting from the proposer of this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the original foundations of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution in paragraph 1 of subparagraph 9 of the historical right of the Croatian people to full state sovereignty, it is said that this right was also manifested in the quote: "the decisions of the Croatian Parliament on 29 October 1918 on the termination of Croatia's state-law relations with Austria-Ugarland and the simultaneous accession of an independent Croatia with the invitation to the historical and natural national law of the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs declared in the former territory of the Habsburg monarchy." 7 days ago it was October 29, 92 years after the historic decision of the Croatian Parliament on the accession of Slovenians, Croats and Serbs. Today, 92 years later, we have before us a proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on defence co-operation. These days we read and listen to announcements about the joint protection of the airspace of Croatia and Slovenia. What's going on? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Defence of the Republic of Croatia states: "The defence of the Republic of Croatia can also be implemented in cooperation with international defence organisations which have been accessed or accessed by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Constitution, laws and international contracts. The Republic of Croatia joined NATO on 1 April 2009. Accordingly, the Republic of Serbia can defend itself in co-operation with NATO, but the basis of which articles of the Constitution or of one of the laws of the Republic of Serbia can and should be led by defence, or there is something that neither we in the Croatian Parliament nor the Croatian public know yet. Do we approach any new alliance that has been established or yet to be established? Is this an announcement of a new state of SHS or some new form of a different name? Do you really happen to match today's agenda point in the Croatian Parliament with the recent 92th anniversary of the accession of the Croatian state of SHS, as well as today's informal visit by the president of the Republic of Serbia. They say and it's true that you can't and can't live in the past. But we live in a present that is still very much related to the recent past. And that past was tragic in Croatia, and this tragedy was caused by Serbia. 13 thousand 233 dead, 33 thousand 43 wounded, a thousand 859 missing, 183 thousand 526 damaged and destroyed residential buildings. In late 1991, 550,000 exiled and 150 thousand refugees abroad. These are data on the consequences that the Croatian side suffered in the Homeland War in the war in which Serbia committed aggression against the Republic of Croatia. We still do not know the fate of a thousand 859 missing Croats, and today we are offered the adoption of a Law confirming the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So what's going on with Rh? After we have located and identified and arrested and transferred Croatian generals, after some of them condemned Croatian courts in politically mounted processes, after these same Croatian courts in these shameful verdicts established terrible findings. About the absence of the Croatian state during Serbia-Montenegro's aggression in Croatia in '91. year, about the illegality of the existence of the regular Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in '91. years of treatment of ZNG and HV paramilitary formations, realizing that then the only legal armed forces were units so-called. JNA and negating the defensive character of Homeland work, defining it by civil war, and what it all says in the ruling to Croatian General Branimir Glavas. After the Croatian judicial authority has violated the constitutional legal foundations of the modern Croatian state in the harshest way since the Croatian Parliament's unruly and constitutional decision on the independence and sovereignty of Croatia as well as the declaration of independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia was made on 25 June 1991. After the binding provisions on the Homeland Labour Declaration for all state bodies and institutions adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 13 October 2000 have been severely violated since no competent authority or even the Government of the Republic of Croatia had responded to such findings, which they had to react to. Today, as cream on cake, we are offered this agreement with Serbia. Whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers us in the Croatian Parliament, but also a vast majority of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, or whether this is all just an incessant pearl in a series of such pearls where ministers themselves admit to making decisions without even reading what it says in the materials. Whether it is mocked by Croatian defenders and disabled people of the Homeland War, children, widows and families of the deceased defenders, families of the missing Croatian defenders and civilians from the Homeland War. Co-operation in the field of defence with Serbia with a country whose president and the entire state summit of the triumphant magnificent Croatian Liberation Action, Bljesak and Storm still call genocide and criminal enterprise with a state that will not and does not want to give families of the missing Croatian defenders and civilians at least so much peace to learn the truth about the fate of their loved ones and enable them to forgive them in a dignified way. And what kind of defence co-operation with Serbia should Croatia be put in place and that we have not entered NATO. Who's going to defend who and who from? What enemies are in sight? Is it true that in the government of the Republic of Croatia there are people who think that great Serbian ambitions are buried and that dreams of a great Serbia have disappeared? If such suckers do sit, let them keep their naiveties to themselves. But we at the HDSSB do not allow anyone to be the Prime Minister and Prime Minister or the President of the Republic of Croatia to make fun of all citizens, Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, and we do not allow anyone to mock our common sense and to put salt on more fresh wounds. Co-operation in economic, cultural, tourism and other less sensitive areas that and not to the harm of the Republic of Croatia, good neighbourly relations that but co-operation in the area of defence, so this is really amazing. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia concerning the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the protection of its sovereignty and independence in paragraph 2 reads: "RH aid in the protection of sovereignty and independence, and the defence of territorial integrity can also be provided by states of allies in accordance with the international agreements concluded". And Article 3 reads "The armed forces of the states of allies may cross the border and enter the Republic of Croatia or act within its borders in accordance with the international agreements concluded on the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia". And today, we have before us a proposal for an agreement between the two countries, so a document of international character. Serbia's ally of Croatia and we will allow it in the future to cross the border with its armed forces and enter the Republic of Croatia and operate within our borders. Is this agreement perhaps a gift to the president of the Republic of Serbia to Mr. Bors Tadic for his arrival in Croatia today? A nicer and more valuable gift could hardly have imagined. Today, he came alone unofficially as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, not as its president. He came to offer his regrets and apologies for Croatian victims who were killed by a large-scale Serbian army, and that was the least he had to do. And not only as a citizen, but also as president of the state who committed aggression on the Republic of Croatia 19 years ago. Even if it's never going to be enough. But does this agreement mean that next time in Vukovar Bors Tadic or another president of the Republic of Serbia will be able to come with the Serb army and tanks, then without fearing the Trpinjska road, and I do not believe that they will stop and light a candle at the monument of the Hero of Homeland War to Croatian General Blagi Zadar. 2.5 thousand Croatian soldiers died in the 87-day battle for Vukovar. A thousand civilians among them 86 children of whom were the youngest six months old. 2.5 thousand people were wounded, 570 of whom remained permanently disabled. 7,000 Croatian defenders and civilians ended up in Serbian concentration camps without one or both parents left 858 children. What would all these Croatian victims say to this agreement? What would the werewolf mother of courage say, Kata Šoljic and her sons, Mijo, Mato, Ivo and Niko, died. Not to believe it. In the event of a war threat from enemies to their grenades, planes and tanks to help defend Vukovar or Dubrovnik will threaten Serbia, as if we forgot which direction Serbian grenades fly. Well, they were automatically led to the killing of Croats. And we will co-operate with Serbia in the area of defence. Gentlemen of the government, you survived last week's vote of confidence, so there was this improbable play that took place for Croatian citizens by breaking up in their direct TV transmission and such thin nerves. You don't have to challenge your own people because everything has its limits. Who so misses Serbia and the alliance with it can go to Dedinje or what is already called the Serbian government headquarters. Good luck to him, and let him leave us alone. And the Serbs didn't know how to defend themselves, so how to defend us. Let them rest, but let them leave us alone once and for all, lest history ever happen to us again. She was bloodied to wish for our children. And I will finish with the verses of the well-known poetess Anna Adrey's Ahmat, not under a man's sky, nor under the protection of other men's wings; I was with my people, when there was an accident with him. For those who so need this agreement with Serbia, the verses can be read: we do not need the Serbian celestial arch or the protection of its eagle wings, we were with our people when the accident was with him. For this reason, the HDSSB club will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62216	Here I am not here... We finished this part. [[You don't understand.]] State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62217	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just a very short few observations. First of all, on behalf of the promoter, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for supporting this proposal for a law confirming the agreement. Several observations on the final opinion of the respected HDSSB representative. In the context of what the respected representative said, the agreement was talked about in a way, representing an agreement, in fact, which he did not. I would not repeat myself from the opening statement on the nature of the agreement which was spoken of and a series of MPs where it is very clear that this agreement is not about any state-owned ties between the two countries, it is not about any implementation of the defence with the Republic of Serbia, and at least I see that there should be a need... The conflict, one historic conflict in modern Croatian history, in which we, by all accounts, won victory. [[You don't understand.]] In some aspects of Croatian-Serbian relations, here is what the Prime Minister and Prime Minister discussed today, the unequivocal complexity of relations and the best perspective of its future was very clear. And also some of the questions that have remained unresolved and which from our point of view will be constantly on the agenda of relations with the Republic of Serbia, and here by name speaks of the protection of all our interests, mainly those concerning the fates of the missing from the Homeland War. So I remind you, this agreement does not go into any sphere beyond what it is intended for and within the frameworks that are fully in line with all the best interests of the Republic of Croatia, both national and international. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62218	Thank you very much, Secretary. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. I'm closing the point. We'll vote when the conditions are met, and we believe that the conditions will be tomorrow at 12, so I announce the vote at 12 o'clock. Continuing work at 9.30 and point 20 as the first, Report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2009. Thank you very much, and I'm finishing today's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-04-0.u62219	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in cooperation in the field of defence. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please let us vote. The result? I find that with 96 votes for, 3 abstentions, proposed, 3 against, 3 against, yes, passed the proposed law. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session - Report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2009 Carrier: The Advocate General is the Advocate General who filed this Report on the basis of Article 12(2). The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Public defender Jurica Malcic will further explain the proposal.
