ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65065	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the work of the 20th session and move on to the agenda point - Report on the work of the 2009 Presentation and Appeals Committee The applicant is the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. The Board of Representatives and Appeals submitted a report on the basis of Article 23. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for an act was sent to you by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Representative for the Proposal Mr Igor Dragovan Chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65066	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In 2009, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament received and processed 394 written statements, and the Committee also accepted the talks of all citizens who asked to take their problems orally and subsequently referred them to the submission of a written presentation to the Committee or to the competent authority. What we can briefly say is that, in this report as well as in the 2009 period, both committee meetings and expert committee services show in particular the performances, i.e. complaints in the areas of pension relations and social care, the length of judicial and administrative procedures, property-legal affairs, and problems with illegal construction. These are, to put it this way, the basic areas where we can sort out the performances that came into this committee. What I would like to say at the very beginning is, and this is the last time I submitted the report to this committee, that there is little reduction in the arrival of performances and complaints in the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament because one part of the citizens' presentation ends in the other working bodies of the Parliament, or committees. First of all, in the Committee on Human Rights, the Committee on National Security and Home Policy, as well as a good part of these plays, comes to the cabinet of the President of the Parliament. Of course, one part is solved there, and the other part, unfortunately, perhaps with a certain delay in time, comes to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, perhaps because of that, in a time when citizens would expect our answer and not get it in time. Just for a little while, in this report, we listed all the areas, and we also cited specific cases that you can see what is actually going on and what work we do as members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. I can express the satisfaction of working together within the committee. That all the decisions we made unanimously because we are leading to solving problems, citizens' life problems, and we are trying to help them fight against the bodies of the state government. And I would say here and still show my dissatisfaction in terms of the problems our citizens face and express my dissatisfaction with the urgency of resolving the demands of citizens in the bodies of the state government. And that's what we meet daily on the board as difficult, more complicated and complex cases are dealt with at the committee's sittings. In living-communal relations, we have dealt with 55 complaints, and the problems in this area are mostly eviction from apartments, rebuilding war-torn houses, distractions in the peaceful use of the apartment. Then in property-legal relations we processed 61 plays, then in the socio-health theme there were 106 performances, and this mainly refers to violations of pension and health insurance rights and social care. There were 95 performances on the work of courts and local self-government, and 77 performances were held in labour and labour disputes. What I would like to say in the end is that we have not taken a step forward again to reduce the arrival of presentations on the board by citizens. This means that our work also confirms the report that we had related to the attorney general that the problems exist. These problems are not political, are not politically colored, these are the problems of our citizens that we need to live with daily. And what we are doing here in the Committee on Presentations and Appeals I believe that this is how it should be done in the bodies of the state government because the relationship with citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, those who are either appointed or elected to certain duties, is their primary responsibility in this way to think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65067	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65068	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Board of Appeals and Presentations, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament submitted this Report on its work in 2009 in which the opening notes provide an indicative part of the Committee's work. The number of sessions held, as well as data on total received and processed performances, were presented, 394 of them. For 89 performances less than in 2008, indicating that the number of performances continues to decrease compared to earlier years. All the statements addressed to the Committee have also been examined on the basis of the content sent to the competent authorities for an indication of what the submissions have also been informed. During the reporting period, the Committee held 5 working sessions. It is also said that the committee has received talks from all citizens who have requested to bring their problems orally, but it is not specified which issue has been presented in these talks as well as whether the team has made new complaints about the work of the competent authorities in terms of human rights violations of citizens. In particular, the report points to statements, i.e. complaints in the field of pension relations and social care, the long-term length of judicial and administrative proceedings, property and legal affairs and problems in connection with illegal construction. So it's about being free to say in a lot of cases what we can call everyday problems that our fellow citizens are talking to us about. In fact, what I can say as a member of this committee is that we can certainly conclude, and because of that this commission exists, that our citizens have certain problems in different areas of life and that when they cannot resolve their problem in any other way they address this body of Parliament. Of course, expecting help from him, and this body can only do one thing for me, and that is to determine whether human rights have been violated in a particular case and suggest to the institutions that they might have hurt. In 2009, housing-communal businesses received 55 complaints and mainly related to illegal construction, operation and lack of urban plans. As regards property-legal affairs, 61 premises mostly on the issue of return of property, the problem of the inability to use its own apartment or household rights. However, it is important to point out that the number of concepts relating to the violation of the right to reconstruction is significantly reduced. On the subject of social and health issues, we have received 106 performances related to violation of pension and health insurance rights, and social care. 95 performances were received at the work of courts and local self-government. Since the Croatian Parliament cannot interfere with the work of the judicial bodies, the Committee has only sent haste and has not discussed the validity or speed of decision-making. In this area, it is also important to establish a list of the places of competent offices, which, in their actions, delay the recognition and exercise of rights. The report also does not specify the claim requirements as well as the areas covered by the work of local administrations to which citizens refer. The non-execution of the rulings of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia by the competent ministries has been highlighted, but they are not listed as the reasons for the execution of cited judgments. And the last chapter we've worked on is work and work relations. 77 performances from this area were received during the reporting period. The highest number of performances refers to the termination of the labour relationship of the infringement committed in the tender procedure, the non-payment of personal incomes, the short payment of severance fees and post-scillation. What I can finally say and conclude through this reduced number of cases is that citizens are more satisfied than the previous period, although there are many more who have problems with achieving their rights, which is why we must continue to seek to change the situation. And to conclude, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65069	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNSU Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65070	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Board of Appeals and Presentations, colleagues and colleagues. We have received this report from the Committee on Presentations and Appeals in which only the framework work of the Committee is given in the opening notes. The number of sessions held, as well as the data on the overall performances and complaints, is mentioned, the 394, that is, compared to what the president said at the previous year, 89 performances and complaints less. I was wondering what that was about, whether our state bodies had started to work better, or maybe it was people's trust in the judiciary, or maybe even this Committee, but I accept the argument given by the president. It has been pointed out that the Committee is receiving a call for citizens but it is not specified which issue has been presented in these talks, as well as whether any new complaints have arisen about the work of the competent authorities in the context of human rights violations of citizens. In its Report, the Committee points to the long-term length of judicial and administrative proceedings, but it does not show which courts or their departments are delaying the proceedings and in which cases. Furthermore, it has not been established whether it is possible for citizens who address the committee and who are party to the proceedings as a result of the long-term court dispute to pay compensation from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and in which the amount and whether such requests have been lodged. The following report shall be submitted through residential, or municipal relations. In this respect, the Committee provided information on the total number of submissions received and processed, 55 of which were in play, but the Report did not specify the number of submissions in matters of settlement of the housing issue as well as the area of jurisdiction of operations and in which areas the same was implemented. The following area is the area of property relations, the committee presented data on the total number of received and processed submissions, 61 total. He stressed the specificity of this issue but lacks a review in which procedures are being conducted. Any measures taken by the Committee in order to level the criteria in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the area of social and health issues has been processed, the Committee has provided information on the total number of submissions received and processed, 106 but no specific infringements of the rights and local competences of the competent authorities. In this regard, the data provided would be a good basis for warning to the competent ministry as well as for the possible taking of measures against civil servants who are unfounded to delay the proceedings. Furthermore, the number of these performances points to the fact that further efforts need to be made in the investigation into the basis of the complaints in order to speed up the proceedings before the competent authorities in this sensitive area of action in order to ensure that citizens have obtained rights, the right to health care and the right to social care. In this area, it is also important to establish a list of local competent offices which, in their actions, delay the recognition or exercise of rights. The non-execution of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's rulings by the competent ministries has also been highlighted, but they are not listed as the reasons for the non-execution of the cited verdict. The fourth area you've worked on is the work of courts and local self-government. Despite the relatively large number of performances of 95, the work of courts and local self-government has been established that the Committee has not interfered with the work of the judicial authority and that it has only submitted rushes to speed up the body of the proceedings. The report does not specify the plea requirements as well as the areas covered by the work of the local administration to which citizens submit representations as well as their local competence. It is indicated that there is no enforcement of the judgments of power. The Committee further noted in the Report the long-term duration of the proceedings and the non-execution of the judgments but did not collect data on the fees paid in the name of the long-term procedure. Maybe it is, but the report doesn't contain it. Any number of proposals submitted for payment on the basis of longevity as well as the reasons why it is stalled. Furthermore, it is not known whether measures have been proposed and given to judges who delay the proceedings here. The report in part of the work of local self-government is incomplete because it is not known in which cases and for which the requirements of the local self-government unit citizens have not done their job. In my view, it is necessary to clarify the concept of interference in judicial matters, and to consider all the concepts in this area, to establish the reasons for long-term sustainability and to formulate proposals that would reduce the negative attitude of citizens towards the judicial authority and try to restore confidence in the functioning of the rule of law as a rule of law state. And the last chapter you've done is work and work relationships. This is where you received 77 performances. The Committee did not display ways of violating labour rights in which the rights are violated, which predicate the bodies in breach of the law, it is merely stated that there are miscreants and there is no date for the review of the actions taken in connection with it. And to conclude, the club of representatives of HNS and HSU and this year will accept the report, but we underline, read what we asked you last year, this year we repeated and try to install in your report the parameters and the reasons I was talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65071	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65072	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I have the impression that it's good luck for the citizens to take that committee, so last year, only 55 submissions were received. But what's interesting is what these submissions are about. So, here in the opening notes, this is about performances, complaints in the area of pension relations and social care, length of judicial administrative procedures, property legal affairs, problems in connection with illegal construction. Just yesterday, I was approached by a woman from Zadar, who actually had an apartment there, kicked out of her apartment, owned her house in the Stubici Toplice, but a certain exile moved into that house. He was said to be an exile whose state built or restored a house that he clearly did not use, possessed others and not that what was not his. On the other hand, the court has obliged Mrs. Milica Miladinovic to pay him the necessary and useful costs of approximately 300,000 kuna. And she's got nowhere to go, she's out of a place, she's out of a house, she's out of hope, and all she's got is a citizen of Serbian nationality. And I'd really like to ask Mr. President of this committee of ours for performances and complaints to take this lady in and listen to her case. How many such injustices are there? Thousands. It's enough to mention what was going on around Bjelovar, when the dynamite crashed into hundreds of buildings, and we know who crashed it. But I'm not gonna talk about it right now. What? ... It does, it does. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And a man asks himself a question, here's only one verdict due to the court's view of the damage to the purchase of this truck. Our colleagues should pay 10 million kuna. And will those who may have destroyed it also pay for what they have brought down. Here we have a case of the Rabbit family. To my insistence, the government paid for that million-and-a-half kuna. 1.5 million kuna versus three lives is nothing, it's symbolic. But that the victims in Sisak, Osijek, what I know in Umag, etc. get a statement of some gesture of respect, etc. if anything else, at least through the form of some verdict. Of course, we understand that they didn't get that gesture or these werewolve victims, and everyone was hoping that international justice would be justice, but what happened yesterday was really a shame. But let me get back to the page. 7 of this report, where you literally say let me quote "M.R. from Split, he addressed the Croatian Parliament in connection with the rights as a protected tenant" and then here is an explanation where it is said that "After considering the presentation, the Committee asked for an indication of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction" and that the outcome of the solution is indicated, so it is said, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction provided us with the following report and I am now quoting "It can be concluded from the allegations of your performance that in a specific case you used a private-owned apartment on which there was a tenant right on which you could not buy the basis of the Law on the sale of dwellings under which there is rent law of the National Journal 43/92. the consolidated text 88/2002. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the right of ownership, that is, since the constitutional principle of protection of property rights is not possible to force the owners of the apartments to sell their apartments to the users of those apartments. In your particular case, it is assumed that it is a confiscated apartment, and in this respect, we state that the Property Compensation Act during the Yugoslav Communist Government has been attributed to specific provisions which are different from the provisions for nationalised dwellings, according to which the previous owner has been granted the right to compensation, and the tenant is entitled to purchase an apartment, i.e. Article 32 of the same law, that the previous owner is given (return) into possession of the apartment taken up on the basis of the confiscation rules and decisions made on the basis of confiscation. By giving an apartment owned by the previous owner, the tenant acquires the legal position of the tenant in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the rental of dwellings of the National newspaper, the number of that person, i.e. the user of that apartment, shall receive legal protection and form of rental of the apartment for an indefinite period of time and with the right to a protected rent, etc." Only this "and with this in particular we point out that according to the provision of Article 39. The law on compensation for property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule was laid down in advance by the provision of Article 32 of the same law in advance laid down in the provision of Article 32 of the same law which return the apartment to the previous owner does not refer to cases where the previous owner is his spouse, etc., when it comes to the confiscation, etc., etc. Gentlemen, nationalization was an injustice, but what happens today with protected tenants living in such apartments is actually an injustice squared. Clearly, the injustice was when the authorities took your house, when the authorities took your apartment, when you had to leave, I was talking about communist authorities, when you had to leave the house you bought, built, inherited. Clearly, no one's house has been donated, but imagine now people who are in an apartment 50, 60, 65 years old and today 2010 have to go to the street. What is the difference between nationalization and confiscation? It would be nationalized to those who, according to communist criteria, had an apartment, two, three, no longer matter, so the comrades agreed to kidnap it and then they moved into these apartments in Tuškanc, Pantovac, etc., and confiscated those who co-operated with NDH, with fascists, with Nazis, etc. And now the first thing new power is, I mentioned the '92 People's Newspaper. For years, so she did, she started returning so-called. Confiscated property, so the daughters, such as Ante Pavelic, came to their father's property. I don't want to talk about it, but I think those protected tenants should come into a situation to buy apartments that live in for 50, 55, 60, 65 years. A man really asks himself a question and that's exactly what this report is talking about, where with them, where with those protected landlords. Well, it's not justice to throw these people out on the street today. What kind of justice is that? We're returning the kidnapping, what was taken in '45, '46, '47, '48. It doesn't matter at the time of the late '40s, it's certainly okay, but it's not right that we simply throw tenants living in those apartments on the street, and the third one is trading just like that, buying them under quotes from legal holders. This is why I started this speech with yesterday's meeting with Mrs. Miladinovic, who was kicked out of the apartment in Zadar, who had fallen into her cottage, and now she has to live in Zagreb's shelters. That exile on the other side of the country has restored the apartment, and he doesn't return her apartment. But the point in the whole case is something else. This country in this particular case to its exiles, which is absolutely fine, secures the apartment, restores the destroyed, and protected tenants I was talking about just now simply doesn't want to solve and throw on the street. And he also knows that this power that the time of these protected tenants is passing, every day they're getting smaller and they don't care about their fate. But behind them, gentlemen remain children and the question arises what will happen to these children. Right, we have laws, we have court decisions. The situation today in these protected tenants is extremely uncertain, but if we have installed a new constitution, for example. The provisions on the revision of conversion from which ultimately there will probably be nothing, and then I think it could be solved and protected tenants. It could have been, but obviously there is no political will, and it's obvious that the question on the other hand will not be resolved. When, once again, I'm going to say, at these apartments, to mention something else. Four hundred thousand workers in the Republic of Croatia have come to the opportunity to after '91. Or '90s. Or '92. Buying the social apartment where they lived, farmers got the opportunity to buy the land, we gave the tycoons the opportunity to buy factories, hotels, etc., we gave the employees shares, we gave the doctors the offices. Now it is thought that the Parliament is privatized and leased for a particular service, we have restored the defenses to the buildings, we have given apartments, absolutely fine. We gave the foreigners Croatian monopolies, Croatian banks. The only one who didn't get anything from anyone in this country, who only works, pays, singles out these little craftsmen, these are these small merchants who are owned, so in the lease of some business premises, whether they own a state, local self-government that works 20, 30, 40, 50 years that the higher security of business would want to buy out, but they're not allowed to do so. It's just not fair, I think it should be possible for them to survive, that they can survive, that they can work, not to resell those spaces later and buy them at some fair price. We will soon sell the gentlemen most likely HEP, most likely soon we will sell the Postanska Banka, Croatia Insurance, HEP, parts of HEP, let me correct myself, but business spaces to the most vital part of the society, and the greater victims are even of the workers who work with them. That's what we don't want to solve. I'll say it one more time, not to bow down, but to sell it for a fair price. All in all, it is clear that I support the work of this committee, but I am surprised that the citizens did not submit any more observations and that the Committee did not therefore have any idea how many jobs in 2009. I don't know what the situation is with 2010. Economic opportunities are getting worse, I guess they'll have more demands. And once again I call on the board president, I call on this Parliament to simply resolve the fates of those on the street of the people who have been thrown out of the street, whose property is on the other side of Croatia, as is the case with Mrs. Miladinovic, and to resolve what simply offends only human dignity, that someone is moving into your apartment, that you are left without an apartment, that you are left with no home, that you are without hope, that you live in refugee centres simply because you are Serbian nationality and that no one wants to resolve this issue in this country, and that it is about people who were absolutely loyal to the Republic of Croatia and who have done nothing wrong in the positive regulations of this country. Thank you. And this report will be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65073	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65074	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that's where my colleague Cain got his things mixed up. Those who drive themselves out of their homes are people who have moved into other people's apartments and that's normal in every democratic state that they have to leave. He didn't mention Vukovar where they came from Serbia, moved into apartments, so no one can drive them out anymore. And these days often calls are sent, people come from Drenjanin, from Somboro, from Sremska Mitrovica, phone calls for keys, get keys to apartments, drop the blinds and come back or leave someone to live there. No one in Serbia sees what they have. Our Croat is at sea some cottage you can't get an apartment because you have about 28 square meters. So let us all be equal in the Republic of Croatia because we created it and we want to have the same rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65075	On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65076	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As we can see from the report in question, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament once a year in accordance with Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submits a report on their work. In order to inform the Croatian Parliament of the observed irregularities of violations of the legal rules as well as the right of citizens to act before state bodies with public authority. During the reporting period, the Committee held five sessions to discuss the performances and complaints and warned of adverse phenomena of broader significance and proposed taking the necessary measures to eliminate them. All the statements addressed to the Committee have also been examined on the basis of the content sent to the competent authorities for the purpose of showing and the applicants for the presentation have also been informed. In 2009, the Committee received and processed a total of 394 written statements. In addition, the Committee received talks from all citizens who asked to take their problems orally, and subsequently referred them to the submission of a written presentation to the Committee or to the competent authority. All the statements were processed and directed to the competent authorities for consideration or responded directly to the applicant of the presentation. In particular, the report points out the concepts, i.e. complaints in the area of pension, social care, the long-term length of court and administrative proceedings. It points to property-legal issues and problems in connection with illegal construction. I'm not going to repeat some of the views I've already made in previous discussions about housing-communal relations and property-legal relations. But we're going to point out some social-health issues. A total of 106 submissions have been received in the past period, i.e. complaints of written content, which mainly relate to violations of pension and health insurance rights, and social care. They dominate their numbers in the total number of performances received, and they relate to the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and its central services as well as the regional services. The problems most frequently raised in the performances concern the delaying of proceedings in resolving insurance claims for the recognition of the right to pension, as well as the non-execution of the rulings of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. making new solutions in accordance with the judgments adopted. In the area of social care, a significant number of citizens have been addressed because of the inability to exercise social welfare rights. The most common complaints refer to small amounts of cash, especially one-time cash aid. Furthermore, citizens addressed the Committee for the loss of work, the inability to settle housing costs and the unresolved housing issue. Therefore, in such cases, the Committee recommended competent social care centres to examine each case closely and to establish all relevant facts and to refer citizens to the procedure for exercising their rights. As far as health care is concerned, the premises received relate to the determination of the safety status of the insurance undertaking, to the handling of the costs of hospital treatment, and to the doctor’s relationship with patients. 95 performances related to the work of the judicial authority and local self-government in 2009. As in the previous reporting period, there is a significant number of performances in which citizens complain about the length of the proceedings before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. Since the Croatian Parliament cannot interfere with the work of the judicial authorities, citizens are often dissatisfied with the response received. The Committee mainly asked through the Ministry of Justice for certain procedures to be speeded up in certain courts. In addition, in many cases, the Committee has instructed citizens to seek legal assistance from lawyers or to warn them not to miss the deadlines in which complaints or complaints are filed to competent senior court cases. A number of performances in this area were related to the lengthening of court proceedings and the failure to carry out powerful judgments. The presentations shall be addressed to the Presidents of the competent courts or the Ministry of Justice and shall take appropriate measures in accordance with their powers. The report concludes that the presentations and complaints of citizens in the field of pension insurance, health care, social care and during this reporting period constitute the most numerous group. Therefore, it draws attention to the competent authorities to try to find solutions to mitigate these problems through legal regulations. This should take into account the fact that social care users are mostly the elderly, so they can hardly provide the necessary professional assistance in the process of exercising their rights. Furthermore, the statements and complaints relating to judicial and administrative proceedings as well as in the previous reporting period may be observed to continue for a long time, indicating the need to take action from the competent ministry more effective in updating such proceedings. Citizens' submissions regarding illegal construction remain significantly present in the Croatian Parliament's address. In addition to still insufficient urban implementation plans, the problem is in an unfair intervention of the construction inspection, and therefore in the report the Committee as well as in previous reports draws attention to the intensification of building inspection activities to combat these phenomena more effectively. From all this, related to the report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for the past 2009 the Croatian Peasant Party club will give its support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65077	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, and the first is the distinguished representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the last year, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals held five sessions to discuss the performances and complaints of citizens, warned of adverse phenomena of broader importance and proposed taking the necessary measures for their... The presentations of citizens sent to the Committee shall also be considered on the basis of their content to the competent state authorities for reasons of... [[You don't understand.]] the applicants were informed of the performances, so that in the area of municipal housing relations in 2009 it was received and... [[You don't understand.]] A total of 55 submissions mainly related to emigration from dwellings, reconstruction by war-torn houses, disturbances in peaceful use of the apartment, and illegal construction, which states is still due to lack of urban plans, as well as unlawful intervention of the building inspection. [[You don't understand.]] In the area of property-legal relations in the report... 61 plays. [[You don't understand.]] It is important to note that the frequent concepts that point to the slowness of administrative and judicial authorities in the requirements of return of property, houses and apartments and previously nationalised land are. The social-health problem over the past period has been the most represented and a total of 106 concepts have been received, i.e. complaints of written content, which mainly refers to the implementation of pension and health insurance rights, and social care. In 2009, 95 concepts related to the work of the judicial authority in local self-government were received, in which citizens complain about the length of the proceedings before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, and local self-government authorities. Work and work relations include 77 performances, and mainly related to labour interruptions, injuries committed in... the procedure, the payment of personal incomes, the short payment of severance fees, and the chicanning at the workplace. [[You don't understand.]] The above shows that last year the committee received and processed a total of 394 written presentations by citizens. In addition, the Committee received talks from all citizens who requested this, and the report also mentions specific cases for certain areas. The final discussions summarised the findings and recommendations of the committee to the competent state authorities, so that citizens' problems are addressed to the Committee as soon as possible. For all the above, I will support the report... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65079	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shantek, listening to your exposure, also listening to the statements of colleagues who spoke before you, I was asked one question that I think is important. So when we talk about these things that can in a certain way be a measure, that is, a measure of the success of a country, then we normally try to make the system work, to get people to meet, to ensure their legal rights, etc., and very often we are dissatisfied with the state of Croatia and we would normally want for a reason, with the right to make this situation better. But I have a comparison, so comparison with countries in the environment. I know that Croatia is moving forward, that there is no need to turn behind, but at the same time, we must also be aware of the environment. We see what is the situation with people in the Republic of Croatia who have experienced persecution, or who have simply left Croatia on their own free will. Croatia has taken responsibility for all these people, for all of them. However, in our neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, people who have been exiled from their hearths, especially those in the territory of Republika Srpska, but generally from the Federation, who have found their haven in either the Republic of Croatia or around the world, in one very brutal but legal way have been prevented from returning and rebuilding. Among other things, there are laws there if I don't even know that this person, the person in question, has an apartment or a house somewhere, so so many years have passed since she was exiled, then she has no right to return. And just recently, I was in Jajc and with Mr. Josipovic and I became convinced there in the statements of our people who are talking about this big problem, so the problem of returning among other things is because of the laws in question. Therefore, we can show our dissatisfaction, but at the same time show satisfaction and happiness that Croatia is moving significantly forward, and that it is asking its neighbours to comply with these standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65081	Thank you. We have a further discussion individual. Dear Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I can't help but say in the opening part, that my colleague Cain missed out completely in his debate, he didn't even talk about the report, that what he was saying at all, that we didn't discuss it, or that it contained in this report for 2009. At its meetings, the Committee dealt with 394 presentations and complaints by citizens. We have to say that we have had this pleasure that we have always had one comfortable, comfortable majority, that we have had one comfortable quorum and that we have made all the decisions and we have made the conclusions unanimously, so there was no political bickering at all, but we have invited citizens and representatives of the state bodies to the committees themselves, and then we have faced one story and another story, and the debate would open, and eventually a conclusion has been reached that has always been in the interest of all these citizens. But we have to say that there are, that we have received a lot of these, when, for example, the problem of living-communal, or building permits of our Croatian flock, so they lived in harmony with the two neighbours for 30 years, then after 24 years, they filed an inspection against each other that he built a garage a little larger than he had opportunities. And together they had the same approach, they all had, even the same fence, even the same facades, and then we saw photo documentation. Also when it comes to complaints about the work of the state bodies, when it comes to the level of pensions, then you have people who were in the military, who were in the Homeland War, was a civilian cop, and his neighbor was a guard, a specialist, and he got a bigger pension, then how he could have a bigger pension than me. Or it was also that someone was one year or six months in the war so the same spits were experienced by the state institutions that handled those cases, how he got, he had started from neighbors to war, and got a smaller pension, and eventually found that this one had a higher rank, had an RV and had a command responsibility. That means he's got a bigger pension. The representatives of the state bodies at all sessions certainly showed great understanding, answered questions and again called on the same representatives, so the citizens who filed complaints, called for their offices and that certain things were resolved. Of course there are things to hurry up on. We have an example of a case on local administration where people from the continental part of the special care area were as exiles went to the sea and according to the law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on housing if the units of local self-government assigned building land to be built there then asked local administration to give them 10 or 20 meters from the beach itself, to give them, parcele and to get those who have moved from BiH, and those local people from that municipality, I will not now talk about which municipality they are working, they do not have the right to do so. You know what a circus that would be? Where they end up agreeing that they have rights, means in areas of special concern, not where they express desire or where they currently live. When we take all those applications from 2009, some of them were painful and I think they were solved, I don't think they were solved with everyone. And when we look at the environment and assume that the Republic of Croatia left the war after BiH. BiH came out of the war with Dayton, and we are peace-making means reintegration of this Podunov, then we can say that we are gold. In all that the state institutions have done much, advanced and that citizens are answering big questions in relation to our environment in Serbia, that is, in BiH in Republika Srpska and in the Federation of BiH. I can say that the president led all the meetings correctly, that, and in the end, that the people who attended those meetings meant a desire to directly tell the board their problems and to face the state bodies that they were leaving more or less satisfied. From all above, I will certainly support this proposal from the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65083	We have one replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65084	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In a certain way, I am sorry to use this instrument for the second time, but I am, so I think it is important to stress to this occasion that these achievements, just the fellow Biljic that you have shown, which is achieved by the Republic of Croatia, have a price. They have their price and that price is huge. Imagine that all these funds used as they were used that there was no aggression on the Republic of Croatia and that could be used in some other way, directed to health care, directed to education, imagine what effects Croatia would have today and where it would be. Therefore, it will never stand for how long ago the war ended and how war should not be spoken of and called upon in terms of having problems at this time. Among other things, in the context of this overall economic crisis, as well as the situation in the Republic of Croatia primarily related to economic problems. So this price is huge, not to mention victims, people, lost lives, lost families, one of the huge potentials of the most productive, powerful part of the Croatian population who unfortunately lost their lives or lost years of life because of disability, etc. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65085	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mate Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65086	My colleague Bagaric, I'm sure the war has ended as a military battlefield, but war horrors and all that ties to war won't end until all those who caused it end up where they belong. Unfortunately, we saw what was happening to us yesterday. One executioner who was quite the executioner, which he did, and then after about 10 years or 15 years, some kind of fissure that said no, no, I heard he didn't order it because he didn't hear it. And then says the judge, or the judge, if we can call them judges, according to what the gentleman did to the Croatian people who was in bandages, who was on stretchers, who was without hands, without legs, who couldn't breathe alone, who couldn't cough, and not fight, he should have got 500 years in prison. Therefore, what we in the Republic of Croatia today can be satisfied with all our institutions that make all the efforts to get those war horrors forgotten as soon as possible, to solve the problem of those people who have escaped and who are displaced, those who have taken the apartments. Certainly a man with a household right should be returned to his apartment, but he also needs to be assured of the person who lives in that apartment his return. I wonder what it's like in BiH, what it's like in Serbia? Returning to BiH and Serbia exclusively is financed by the government of the Republic of Croatia, not by the state. So we also finance the Croats, our Croats so that they can return to BiH and here. And therefore, unfortunately, we are stuck with development because we had a third of Croatia occupied, and now we have to rebuild it and with all these problems that we have related to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65087	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. We still have one, and that's the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65088	Thank you very much. Well, here's just a few sentences, think, whatever thesis you want. First, I would point out that from my personal experience, this committee worked well. Like most MPs, I have probably received a lot of complaints and demands from citizens in the past. And all that I've sent to the board I have to say is that it's more or less well done. However, I would like to point out one fact. Why is it important for this House, but not just for the Parliament, this committee? So this is about the Human Rights Committee, the only committee in this House, in this House, which in some ways has opportunities and tasks to address specific situations. And in a certain way, the authority of this Assembly is also tested in relation to the institutions that should be dealt with. So, about what I mean is what in situations where this committee has proved to be effective in these situations is confirmed by the authority and power of this House. And in those situations where it wasn't clearly shown. And we know that in the good part of resolving these complaints, normally which is beyond this possibility, the Committee has not achieved results. The second finding that seems very important to me, which is different from what we have now had the opportunity to hear, is, in fact, for me, all these complaints that come to the Assembly Committee actually confirm that we have problems with the institutions in this country that institutions are actually not doing their job. I don't know if you've had a chance to see these complaints as they look, in 80 or 90% of cases it's actually this Committee is the last instance citizens address. So, they've been through every possible instance and when they haven't received any satisfaction, the satisfaction of how they're going to solve their problem then they're talking to this committee. So, I think that's one sign you should imagine. That's about the same thing to you when you decorate this committee's report with a lawyer's report and some other reports. Now, if we try to define or find a common denominator that this segment of the institution or our society doesn't work, in fact in a certain way it produces that people complain to this committee. Well, the common denominator is the judiciary. You always end up having this situation when you're making certain complaints, complaints about what you want to call them, you've got a situation where the court hasn't done its job. Either he didn't do it right, or he didn't do it at all, so it's been going on for years and so on. And we know that, as a legislative authority, we cannot interfere with the judicial authority. But now it would open up a whole other aspect of the problem and perhaps a problem in the direction that we are satisfied with the reform of the judiciary and how far it has come in the first place. Therefore, I think in a certain way, given these findings, the possibilities of the board are limited. And what I saw in one good part, it seems psychotherapy, that when a man simply sees someone listening to him, that someone has received him, that he has offered him some options for solutions, he feels better, whatever his problem is not solved. And I think that when it comes to this committee and its logistics and some of its business powers, maybe we should expand. Because I'm simply saying he's kind of the authority of this House to go out, to individual problems, but also to certain state institutions. Because I'm personally concerned I'll support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65089	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65090	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you mentioned exactly this part of why this House is important to this committee. I think it's one fact that I'm going to try and figure out with a few allegations. And that's that this slow settlement, what you said about institutions not doing their jobs, that all the property-legal return relations, the homeowner, and that solves another problem, is with the internship and introduction of ownership into the official books. We are quite unsettled about this, and it is precisely that staging ownership as such that brings many individuals into great trouble. Today, there is a possibility that one of the owners may block the entire internship or enrollment in books related to the property-legal relations of certain tenants. However, what is problematic is that there are certain legal shortcomings in that part of it, and that is why I believe that this Committee, as the working body of the Assembly, should also point out these problems, through the Parliament, that through legal solutions these problems are being dealt with more quickly, or that such laws are being passed which will prevent one good action, activity, which is to sort out these books relating to the housing problem to be solved as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65091	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65092	I know a fellow extreme example, there's a skyscraper in Zagreb that I know hasn't been on record for 45 years, and it's one of the key problems that our institutions aren't doing their job. We can boast that we have introduced no knowledge of electronic processing, etc., it does not work at all, but when you go all together, awareness of the common denominator then you will see that it is actually a problem in the judiciary. And what our mission must be to make good laws, to ensure material conditions and all that needs to be done is to make the judiciary more efficient. I am convinced that the situation that our judiciary is working so that this Committee certainly has 50 or 60% of complaints.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65093	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65094	Ten. Report on the work of the 2009 Presentations and Appeals Committee, I am voting on the conclusion that the proposed Report is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. WITH 101 votes for and 2 abstentions brought the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65095	Now we're going to skip a few points that's 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 because we don't have the conditions to discuss it. So we will move to the 17th point, which is - a proposal for conclusions regarding the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Proposer: Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivan Bagarić, president of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, all Croatians and Croats, in the follow-up text of the Croats, regardless of what status they live in and where they are members of an indivisible Croatian people who have the same national identity and makes up a unique cultural space. Since there are different Croatian communities in the world with different needs and opportunities that I will later look back on and say something about each of them, very briefly, there is no unique way of developing the relations of the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore necessary to have a special approach to each Croatian community, bearing in mind its needs and respecting its specificities. This should be part of a single policy in line with the long-term strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia that rests on faith in the possibility of major positive shifts whose foundation and driver are the human potential of Croats in the Republic of Croatia and those in the world. In line with this commitment at the the thematic session of the Committee titled "Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia Cooperation and Obligations" with the participation of the President of the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Kosor, and representatives of numerous associations and institutions dealing with problems of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia or representing them among which were representatives of the Croatian Emigrant Queen, the Catholic Church, the Croatian World Congress, the Association of Bosnian Croats "The Ring", and many others, we encouraged the adoption of a systematic policy, i.e. strategy of the Republic of Croatia's relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The session adopted conclusions that we will actually talk about today and which I will propose at the end of this presentation. Let me now explain the need to make the mentioned conclusions i.e. strategies and the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The politics of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside Croatia is an integral part of the policy of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, which should be drawn up in all development strategies aimed at creating an environment in which all citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have prosperity and social security. Accordingly, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are a great potential for the social and economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The strategic definition of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia should be to strengthen the existing and construction of new instruments for the protection of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and to strengthen cooperation with Croatian institutions outside Croatia and the governments of their domestic states. The economic and social development of Croatian society and the social development of Croatian society, the market economy, knowledge society, social justice, global movements and the EU integration commitment make new demands, including strengthening co-operation with Croats outside Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is faced with a problem of ageing population and negative natural growth, at the same time because of the need to believe in the future of the Republic of Croatia's action, it can learn a lot from the positive and negative experiences of many European countries with regard to the integration of immigrants and their descendants. At the same time, the strategic national interest of the Republic of Croatia is to prevent brain drains and systematically encourage and support the return of Croatian experts and scientists from abroad. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has a need and obligation to design and achieve an effective and effective relationship with Croats outside Croatia, which will be based on mutual and systematic support for the achievement of political economic, social, cultural, scientific and interest. This relationship. cooperation will systematically be developed through this strategy of the Republic of Croatia's relations with non-Croatian Croats whose adoption has been announced on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as such strategy should be an indication of diplomatic, economic, cultural, social, educational, information, organisational and other measures implemented by the institutions of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside Croatia. The basis for the adoption of the strategy is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 10, as well as international law based on UN and EU documents governing the relationship of the country of origin with parts of its own people outside the borders, guaranteeing cultural diversity, minority rights, i.e. Ensuring national rights and freedoms and meeting all obligations arising from the UN's fundamental documents which are part of the overall policy of protection of human rights and freedoms in the UN Member States. The preservation of the national identity of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is part of the overall Croatian national interest. All institutions of the Republic of Croatia should include in their social and economic policy programmes the issue of Croatians outside Croatia, including planning, implementation and evaluation of the necessary projects. This will ensure the knowledge and acceptance of the needs of Croats outside Croatia at official level, and allow for the improvement of the links between institutions in Croatia and the world dealing with this issue. The fundamental principles that will be respected in the implementation of the strategy are a transparent, comprehensive and responsible relationship between the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside Croatia. The policies of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats living outside its borders in their home countries are based on the recognition and acceptance of the inalienance of fundamental human and civil rights from which the right to protect and preserve cultural diversity is exercised, and the right of minority communities to preserve the identity of culture and language, and the obligations of the state to respect universally recognised principles and standards of international law, with full application of the principle of non-intervention of one state in the domestic affairs of another country. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. The constitution I already mentioned. Directions of action of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia should be in action towards Croatian communities and individuals who have made quality integration into the society of their new homeland. Maintaining Croatian language and culture and economic and any other cooperation and supporting their voluntary return and integration into Croatian society, which is either relevant or of national interest. Also, action towards marginalised Croatian communities and individuals in the world to ensure their protection, which includes their voluntary return to the Republic of Croatia and integration into Croatian society, and action towards the Croatian indigenous minority in European countries and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as the sovereign people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would now briefly present these common Croats outside Croatia and their specificity. Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia are persons living outside the Republic of Croatia, so we can define them which have Croatian roots and which are associated with Croatia in the same language, culture, heritage, customs or feelings of belonging to the Croatian people. And I can split into three groups. Croats emigrated to the overseas and European countries and their descendants, and all those who feel like members of the Croatian national and Croatian heritage, i.e. diaspora. Then members of the Croatian indigenous minority in European countries and Croats as equals I repeat the sovereign and constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, Croatian emigration is a rule of law of complete Croatian diaspora and it is estimated that the Croatian diaspora has about 3 million members of which about 2 live in the overseas countries. These are all those Croats who moved from Croatian historical spaces to overseas countries and European countries, and all their descendants. The emigration of Croats caused by severe economic conditions began in the mid-19th century and lasted throughout the 20th century. That eviction, i.e. The negative migration balance has contributed most to the adverse demographic situation in the Republic of Croatia, which has long-term adverse consequences for the overall economy and the social situation in Croatia. Most Croats in the host countries have achieved prosperity and have contributed significantly to the development and progress of their new environment. They made a huge contribution to the defence of Croatia during the Homeland War and the ageing countries of Croatia. But there are also Croats outside Croatia who still live in the difficult economic and political conditions of the countries in which they moved. Therefore, like all Croats who have not successfully integrated, they need protection. Croatian emigration and emigration of Croats should generally be seen as a two-way process. The return policy of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia should be based on measures that will slow down or stop further eviction and speed up the return of emigrants. Namely, removing political and economic causes for which Croats have left their country should create conditions for a voluntary, informed return. Croatians who have acquired knowledge, skills and experience should be provided with conditions of sustainable return. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is to cooperate and connect with all countries of the world, and especially with economically developed countries. Croatians living in these countries can play a very important role in this. Therefore, the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to cooperate with all Croatian institutions in the world, as well as to support these institutions for the promotion of Croatian language, culture and scientific and other cooperation. Croats in European countries are estimated to have about 600,000. These are the Croats and their descendants who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, but live and work with their families in European countries. In the Republic of Croatia, they spend shorter or longer periods during holidays or holidays and make significant contributions to support in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. And so are those Croats who, before all those in European Western countries, are permanently inhabited. When it comes to Croatia, the indigenous minority is estimated to be between 260 and 300 thousand members of the Croatian people, and these are those Croats who live in neighbouring and other European countries and who have long ago for political, war and other reasons moved from historical Croatian countries or have now become part of other countries for the same reasons. For the Croatian national minority in European countries, it is sought and guaranteed by all rights enjoyed by national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. And finally, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are a constituent, sovereign and equal people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A relatively prewarning number of members of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina suffered the biggest aggression victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina and ethnic cleansing. The interests of the Republic of Croatia are to improve good neighbourly relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina and to support Bosnia and Herzegovina on the path of European integration. Connecting with Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, supporting their return and remainder in Bosnia and Herzegovina and preserving their full equality from strategic interest in Croatia. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia needs to follow its constitutional obligation, as well as the commitments arising from Dayton, the Dayton Peace Agreement, in co-operation with the International Community, to do everything that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina will do to ensure their constitutional status. At the end of this opening presentation, and on behalf of the promoter, I would like to meet all of you, the Croatian public, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the context of our proposal, has appointed a working group headed by the Secretary of State, Mr Bozinović, who has prepared or has already prepared a proposal for a strategy. So our request, the board's basic request has already been accepted. Now I would just like to read more conclusions on what the proposal of this committee is and which are actually sent to the Croatian Parliament with the aim of the Croatian Parliament to adopt them. First conclusion: An announcement by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is supported on the adoption of a strategy of relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia aimed at improving the mutual relationship i.e. Achieving effective and effective support systems for the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in all fields of action and for the purpose of achieving common interests. Second conclusion: It is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement the coordination and improvement of the mutual support system of the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside Croatia to adopt in the spirit of the announced strategy the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which, among other things, will provide for the re-design of existing institutions of the Republic of Croatia dealing with issues of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as a full implementation of the drawn strategy. Third conclusion: In line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and international regulations, and given the specific needs of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament gives support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its policy of cooperation with the Croatian diaspora worldwide and the protection of the Croatian national minority in European countries and ensuring full equality, constitutionality and sovereignty of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge all clubs and agents to support these conclusions. the adoption of the strategy and the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and to reach a consensus on this important issue for Croatia, and on behalf of Croats living outside Croatia and throughout Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65097	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. We're starting a club debate. First of all, the SDP club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65098	Dear Mr. Vice President, Representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, it should be said immediately at the beginning to say four new, four amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia have kept the constitutional provision and constitutional obligation for the Republic of Croatia to care, and now I will be precise about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in other countries. It's very important to know when we're discussing this matter. Secondly, I would like to say that the concern, the care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who live outside the Republic of Croatia, is a national obligation, not a party obligation. I would like to stress this especially because this concern cannot be colored by the party government, no matter where it comes from. It is the national interest of the Croatian state and Croatian people. In such a situation, I would like the Croatian state to define what the interests of the Republic of Croatia are in the cooperation and care of the Republic of Croatia for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia so that we can assess whether the agreed national policy in this area is being realised. If we look at things that way, and we have to, then unfortunately so far, we have been wandering around in that area, and there should be no wandering around. The second thing I want to stress when there is no defined policy and there is no consensus about it then this aid is often counterproductive. And that's what I want to point out. That is why it is very important in the part of concern to stand at the level of the Constitution and say so. Of course, when we talk about this care and help here, then let us not be hypocritical most often talk about the care of the Republic of Croatia for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina or the former states of the former Yugoslavia. When it comes to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we must specify what interests Croatia must help Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The primary interest is that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is being established as a state of equal peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so also Croats with Bosniaks and Muslims and in constitutional and legal terms become equal legal Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When it comes to the so-called. The diaspora or real diaspora there Croatia has to say more elements, more areas where it must establish its national interest. Of course, it is very important both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and everywhere that cultural cooperation develops uninterruptedly in order to preserve Croatian culture in the areas and areas where Croats live, no matter where they are, to preserve the language of Croatia, and when it comes to this we have had many occasions to discuss the technical opportunities that exist to enable listening or watching television or listening to programs, radio programs for Croats outside, who live outside the Republic of Croatia and we have not had that good hearing or national consensus. I would return once again because of the need to define and this is the best help, to define this policy in Croatia, so that Croats living outside the country will be clean, or there will be a certain policy headed towards those parts of the Croatian people. Without definition, without determination and national consensus there will be repeated party interests, and they are counterproductive to the care of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. In other words, we welcome the initiative to open a debate on how to handle concerns, what elements are represented, who is defined, who is following it and how we have determined what the interests of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia are. Who's thinking about it and who's taking care of it? Of course, we have institutions like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but that's not enough of course. This is of course not enough because it is too busy with the state interests of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I cannot say so to take care of all aspects that the Croats who live outside the country deserve, and I have already mentioned this as a development and preservation of culture and the preservation of language. There's an important element that seems to me we're constantly neglecting. It is very easy to take care through, say, economic cooperation. Perhaps the most effective is to make sure that the national interest is achieved where we have good economic cooperation. I am convinced that it is the national and state interest of the Republic of Croatia, for example, for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina to have equal status and good economic development, a good economic position in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they would then in turn realise the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It is to stay alive and live in Bosnia and Herzegovina as their homeland as equal. Here, I don't want to be too long. So, the SDP club of course supports a consensus in the state policy of the Republic of Croatia, the national consensus, to define the interest of the Republic of Croatia in this area, but also the interest of Croats living outside Croatia for this co-operation. Without it, it seems to me that we often wander about the party's need, and I repeat it counterproductively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65099	Thank you very much. Next is the club IDS, the respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65100	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Let me first quote these notes from the back of this as it is called, that a proposal where it is literally said that the autonomous Croatian minority in European countries has about 260,000 members. About 600,000 Croats live in European countries. On the basis of the data available in European countries, some 550,000 Croats, Germany 300000, Slovenia 60000, Serbia 50,000, Austria 30, Switzerland 25000, France 20000, Sweden 15000, Italy 12, Netherlands 5000, Belgium 4, Macedonia 3000, Denmark 2000, Norway 1000 etc. According to the available data and based on the assessment of these premises, about 270 thousand Croats live, Vojvodina 110 thousand, Hungary 70, Austria 50, Romania 10, Kosovo 9 thousand, Montenegro 10 thousand, Slovakia 4, Italy 3,000. The Croats, then said in Bosnia and Herzegovina are an equal, sovereign, constituent people, in Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the '91 census. In the year, the Croatian people in BiH had 760,000 852 members, estimated to have been expelled from the territory of Republika Srpska about 220,000 Croats, and from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 140,000 Croats. So it's gone, reportedly missing, and about 400,000 people have moved out. It is clear that Croatia should take care of Croats outside Croatia. Croatia must respect the territorial integrity of neighbouring countries, above all here I think of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia must not encourage the country's dissociation, but everything must do to build the country's territorial integrity. Historical burden, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, I mean... etc., East Mostar is big, but I would also like to say that no one in Sarajevo or anywhere else should have any objections, whether it is politics today, Mrs Kosor, yesterday Mr Sanader, the day before yesterday, Mr Racan, or no one else, I mean all the praises and the politics of Mr Mesic, today Mr Josipovic. [[You don't understand.]] Croatia's problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as I see it, lies in a number of things, from perhaps minorisation to electoral legislation itself, e.g. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency member from the Croatian people de facto is not elected by Croats in that country, but a fundamental problem when it comes to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I see in this economic difference in the development between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Republic of Croatia is in big trouble, but it is almost minor compared to what problems Bosnia and Herzegovina is in today, probably because of the war both Croatia and Bosnia were the victim of aggression, but surely the greatest burden, the war burden suffered precisely by our neighbouring state. Today, it is almost impossible to compare the words of Croatia's and Bosnia and Herzegovina's economies. It is good that the trade between the two countries is big, Croatia is achieving a significant surplus, up to a year ago if I'm not mistaken, we exported to Bosnia and Herzegovina billions and 500 million dollars, imported about 500 million dollars, for the first nine months of this year from Bosnia and Herzegovina 784 million or what already convert marks. One more, I mean it's not a problem, but one more moment. Every citizen from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is absolutely okay that we understand each other, Croatian nationalities in Croatia can get to work, I think there is no obstacle, that it must not be, primarily because of citizenship, but on the other hand, it creates major problems for the citizens I would tell Croatian nationalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the presence of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is reducing from year to year. It's sad, but it really is. On the other hand, if there were no Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and somewhere around 13,000 are moving to these areas annually, Croatia would be significantly more affected. A special sport developed along the border, e.g. The use of the social services of the Republic of Croatia, so it is not surprising that more than 100 names appear on the same addresses, 200 names, but about some other occasion. It's not my interest now. Now, what is the question of this proposal, should this matter be dealt with by a special law by gentlemen? That's the point. Every law normally costs, budgets are provided year after year for citizens of Croatian nationality. It's been in the war since '91. '95. Croatians from the Bosnia and Herzegovina emigration helped Croatia to a great extent, and today they do, I said, through work, and even this demographic presence in these areas, foreign exchange records, over a billion dollars each year are foreign exchange notes from our workers in Germany, Italy, Austria, Switzerland, I don't know Canada, etc. Individuals, not all of them, have been compensated by individual Croatian authorities, for example. through privatisation, de confiscation, but most of them didn't ask for anything, nor asked for anything from their country of origin. Now the question is how to be more present in Croatian communities, for example in one Italy, Slovenia, Austria, Germany, America, Canada, etc., etc. I don't think these people dream of any money from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but in respect of not forgetting them for sure. For them, it would certainly be the greatest thank you if Croatia were a successful country, that perhaps their countrymen, that their relatives do not have to travel Germany, Canada or Australia together with their neighbours or relatives, that they can when they return, if they return, although year after year it will be harder and more difficult, so that they can invest here, that they can work in these areas, that they can invest. What should, or should be insisted on, that Croatia should make choices in the neighbouring country, I mean here on Ljubljana, or Slovenia pardon, that Croatians in Slovenia choose national minority status, and among other things, in the spirit of these good neighbourly Croatian-Slovenian relations, although our prime ministers have not met for some time, I do not know what that is. I'm kidding. On the 3rd side of this proposal, among other things, it is seen that here, where it stands, all Croats, regardless of where and in which status they live, are members of one indivisible Croatian people who have the same national identity, make up a unique cultural space, etc., according to this definition, it is necessary to pass the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and other necessary acts to ensure the implementation of a strategy aimed at improving the relationship of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, outside of Croatia. On page 4, it is said, among other things, that the basis of the return policy of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia should be measures that will slow down or stop further eviction and speed up the return of emigrants. Who, gentlemen, on the other hand, will, for example. Return at this time from Canada to Croatia? A little someone, someone, yeah, but a little who. Who will return from America, the United States to Croatia? A little someone. From Australia to Croatia? A little someone. So the primary policy of the Republic of Croatia should be not to return but to the fact that people do not move out. That is the point, and this can only be achieved with one economic, under quotes of "superiority" that the citizens of this country can solve all their work, social, social and other needs in the area where they were born. Once someone goes to Canada, it's hard for that someone to come back. God forbid he comes back, but he's hardly coming back. And that's why the return is de facto solved so that people don't move out. On the other hand, one Canada, one America, one Germany, countries that are not xenophobic to those countries that need to work is in great interest that from these areas, I would say, and even some other Eastern European countries, people come to their places. They're quick to fit in, they're hardworking people, people who want to work, who want to make money. And in Croatia people want to work, they want to make money, maybe a little less work. Let's put that cynicism aside. We're the most Catholic people, we're more Catholic than the Pope himself, and I'm not counting any further, and I'm saying that in the context of this message recently delivered to the German Chancellor that the multiculturals are dead. Or as one of their diplomats told me, the Croats are in, some others not to mention are out. For the end, care of Croats is absolutely necessary outside the Republic of Croatia. The emphasis absolutely should be placed on the Croatian population in BiH, return to Banja Luka, etc., but everything is largely embossed and with material possibilities of the Republic of Croatia. What I may also resent this proposal is that we are not given a table of how much money and at this point goes on all different grounds either for Croats in BiH, or in any other country. It doesn't matter if it's about health care, whether it's about the welfare, whether it's about some capital investment in those areas, whether it's about pensions on all grounds that I'm not putting anyone out or getting out of that idea, how much I've told some other institutions, hospitals, etc. How much did it go for some salaries and HVOs etc., etc. I will not talk about electoral legislation, but without financial indicators, I have made this proposal a conclusion related to the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia may not be complete and perhaps for some other opportunity in that part should be complemented, and I am sure that Croatia is in line with its own capabilities not enough, but the opportunities are what they are, it sets out certain funds that are largely helping the institutions that are made up of Croats in neighbouring countries. It is good that, on the other hand, Republika Srpska, I mean here specifically to the president there, Dodiga, indicates a return. I trust him that he is in the interest of returning Croats to Banja Luka, as much as he is interested in BiH as it is in the whole of another occasion, but the Republic of Croatia must be one of the primary interests of stable BiH, perspective BiH, the whole of BiH, as well as other neighbouring countries. Among other things, the perspective of Croats living in these countries. And I agree with that sentence by Mr. Lek, and that I will conclude, that the care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia must not be party but one national obligation. We're all behind this conclusion, I have some reservations about the law. I do not think that this matter should also be addressed according to the possibilities of the country's budgetary, financial capacities, understandably, that care should also be taken of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65101	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected representative Ivo Andric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65102	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a proposal for conclusions related to the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which was delivered by the Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. At first, I want to say who these people are related to these conclusions. Mr. Bagaric lined them up in three groups, and here I am going to put it in four groups. The first group is made up of Croatian emigrants and is made up of the first Croatian emigrants. So they were sailors, merchants, and sailors who made their bread on ships and ships. In addition to them, thousands of Croatian soldiers who fought across Europe have committed emigration. The emigration mainly consists of Croats being evicted to overseas countries and to European countries and their descendants. Their departure from their historical spaces has mainly caused economic but also political conditions. The more serious process of eviction began in the mid - 19th century and unfortunately continued throughout the 20th century. Croatians in these new countries have never forgotten their old homeland, although most of them have achieved prosperity in these countries. They faithfully transmitted their love for Croatia as well as their love for their people to their descendants. The vast majority of them who have achieved so-called. The "American dream" has made an immeasurable contribution to the defence of the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War and the creation of Croatia. To them, these conclusions do not want to return help, especially in a material sense, because they do not need it. But we certainly should thank them for what I've done this way. However, in the same countries where one has successfully integrated, there is also a part of them that have not successfully integrated and need assistance and support from the Republic of Croatia. Article 10 The Croatian Constitution guarantees the care of the Republic of Croatia for such parts of the Croatian people living outside the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to this group of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must find solutions and slow down and stop the further process of eviction to the overseas countries as well as speed up the return of eviction. I am convinced that the government has a vision and how and how it will act on these issues. Croatian returnees must have all the conditions for their return to be sustainable because with their knowledge and experience they can be a link of the Republic of Croatia to the whole world. The second group is made up of Croats in the European countries and their descendants who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. These are temporary workers, although for a good part of them, this temporary work takes several decades. What is the contribution of these first two groups is the fact that in 2007, 1.4 billion dollars was paid to the Republic of Croatia, which makes up 3.3 gross social income. The third group is a Croatian indigenous minority in the European countries for which all rights that have and enjoy national minorities in the Republic of Croatia should be sought and guaranteed, and we know that the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are extremely high. The last group is made up of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to the 91st census, which was the last for known reasons, so there was a census in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there were 760 thousand Croats. Today because of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that number is almost halved. According to church books, or their indicators in BiH today, some 450 thousand Croats live. Unfortunately, a large number of them have been evicted to overseas countries and have no more serious intention of returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are an equal, sovereign and constitutive people or should be because it is by the Dayton Agreement that has the Constitution in it and guaranteed it. In practice, however, they are neither constitutional nor sovereign, nor even. Therefore, the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia must be to improve the constitutional position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in support of returning to their sustainable remainder in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I use this opportunity and I appeal to Croatian businessmen who enter Bosnia and Herzegovina with their jobs, especially in places where Croatians are a mathematical minority to give Croatians the opportunity to work, to prove themselves in business, not to hire others, every job is a guarantee of the rest of one family. The Republic of Croatia is a co-signator of the Dayton Peace Agreement and has certain obligations to monitor its implementation. For many years, the implementation has been damaged by Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My colleagues and colleagues, from everything made clear that the Croats are outside the Republic of Croatia and there are about 3 million of them, the great potential of the social and economic development of the Republic of Croatia. And that the Republic of Croatia will have to come up with an effective and effective relationship with this potential for both. This relationship must be elaborated through the strategy of the Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as the first proposal for conclusions sent to the Croatian Assembly by the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, whose adoption was announced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The basis for the adoption of the strategy is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 10, as well as international law based on documents of the United Nations and the European Union. One of the objectives of the strategy is to preserve the national identity of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, no matter where they live because they are members of an indivisible Croatian people. It is of course necessary to make sure that each of these Croatian communities, or group, requires a special approach. Keeping in mind her needs and respecting her specificities. The conclusions provide for the adoption of the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and other necessary acts to ensure the implementation of the strategy, all in order to improve and improve relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to note that the fundamental principles that will be respected in the implementation of the strategy must be transparent, comprehensive, responsible attitude of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will soon adopt the announced strategy, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposal for conclusions on the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65103	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. And now on behalf of the HNSU Club, respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65104	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State and the honourable representatives of the Committee as a proposal. Nationality is, above all, the personal commitment of every man, the freedom to determine the ethnicity of showing and ethnicity, is one of the fundamental human rights. Who he is, and who he isn't, something by ethnic definition cannot be determined by the state. He can't determine the state. It is therefore a deep intimate feeling of every man, a sense of belonging to an ethnic circle that can be one, and his sense of root bonds something else entirely. Idealizing the story of Croats living abroad is not an option. Starting with the premise that it is the fatum that has just arrived the Croats is also not directed. Europe is, in the broadest sense, the word tank from which millions and millions of emigration has been generated throughout the world or in the rest or other parts of the world. Therefore, the Croats are not specific. When we look at the diaspora of other European peoples, even in relation to the size of the people as such, we will find other cases, such as the Italian, Irish, Germans, and Serbs with whom the situation in which the Croatian ethnic Corps is compared. However, idolize and in some way even metallize the story of Croatian emigration as if it were a compact fully conscious, self-determined ethnic group divided into dozens of local ethnic communities is not realistic. We can talk about millions of people with Croatian roots, but we can hardly talk about millions of people who really live, feel and develop that root. It's much more unfortunately especially among those so-called. The old diaspora, I'm not talking about old indigenous minorities living in the surrounding countries, but about those expatriates who, from the end of the 19th century, went all the way to New Zealand, to Alaska, throughout the 20th century. They didn't go because they wanted to see the world, they went mainly in hard trouble, in a hard fight for naked survival and life because where they grew up and where their roots mainly killed their poverty, sickness, drought, peronospor and all the evil of that time, looking for someplace else to bend a new nest, start a family and live happier than they lived in the old homeland. So no one has left their home for fun forever, but is mostly leaving him for an angry need and searching for a better life. And that is why many of the descendants of those who were Croats and came from Croatia today do not feel the connection with Croatia and Croatia, let's say because their parents were going through difficult integration times, adaptations to new societies, difficult times where they were on the sidelines of the societies in which they came, difficult times in which they were even with the feeling of second-class citizens, and their children do not want to repeat it. Many today do not want to highlight their national or ethnic background, for they either do not feel it or do not want to bind their identification to those who are known to have been marginalized or ultimately in the latest versions of those they have heard in the bad news on their televisions. It's not any specific character of HRvat, it happens to many others. The descendants of the Germans who went under pressure and coercion in '44. Until '48. Even later in Croatia today, you will find it difficult to hear from them that they will say that the Danube Krauts, that they have declined in Croatia, Vojvodina or elsewhere, because they remember what their parents were going through as second-class citizens who didn't even know the language of the country they came to, who had been gathered in camps for 10 or 15 years waiting to get citizenship. Today, some young people are born a sentiment towards their homeland, according to the homeland of their ancestors or parents, because Croatia is heard for good, not only in sport. Croatia is heard as one of the more beautiful countries to go to and be, there are sentiments because they reveal their roots because they want to meet their relatives, they come to Croatia. But when we talk about all Croats living outside Croatia, it should be said that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina pass by everyone else and everyone else aside. Why? Because the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina have gone nowhere. They've been on their own since they've been here. Thus, they are nothing but an indigenous people who, thank God, still have the status of a constituent nation and who must keep it at all costs. So, talking about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is quite good through another optic, through another type of understanding and I would say through a much higher level of responsibility for Croatia and Croats whether they are political or ethnic. The universal obligation recorded in our Constitution on the care of Croats living outside Croatia has different levels. Unfortunately, it was a platform where these people were also abused, where they were used for political purposes, which were sent one message and lived another, which in the last 20 years were actors of various political events not by their own free will. I'll tell you a parable not so old. In January of last year, a colleague of Vrbat, a colleague of Miletic and I were in the United States and at our request the hosts provided us with a visit to one of the largest clubs of Croatian emigration in North America. That's the one in Cleveland. We are welcomed with great consideration, polite but cold and reserved, because someone told them that the parties from which we come are anti-Croatian parties. For years, someone has told them that there is only one party that protects their interests. For years someone has told them that there are national enemies and traitors in Croatia. Of course, smart people, people who think logically don't need long and much to depose that lie and insinuate, and we split up like people who understand each other. But what burned me, and so did my colleagues, is their feeling they're not hiding, which is that we needed in the '90s, and now we're neglecting them, that we don't want to accept. Mr. Milinkovic, don't fix anything I quote, please. I'm talking... So, that their proposals to invest their money do not have an adequate response from Zagreb, that they are not satisfied with how better levels of education could be provided for their children at Croatian universities, and I have heard that from some people in Canada. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We will have to look into the truth and say that Croatia has been leading in this plan for a long time and hypocritical policy, as we wish to draw certain conclusions as the Croatian Parliament. And that's why some of the people are, and some of them are particularly interesting and important to us because they are active members of a minority circle in those countries there. They want to spend their time and their love in Croatia and in connection with Croatia, so these people are not satisfied with how, through which institutions, through which programs and with what opportunities Croatia communicates with them today. It is so good that this proposal calls for a different setting of the whole system, because it is really necessary. Furthermore, when we talk about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what happened to them is severe demographic losses that have completely disrupted Croatia's position as a constituent element in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We operate on '91 numbers. A year. We look forward to the next census in Bosnia and Herzegovina, fearing the truth, which is that the Croatian element in Bosnia and Herzegovina is completely demographically devastated. But we also have to look into the truth in the eyes and say that sometimes from Croatia we have seconded the processes that end so badly today and that we have not been fair to these people until the end because we have talked about politics and less about content, about life and the quality of life. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is and will be that the Croatian element in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a constituent nation, as an indigenous national community survives and develops in a single, sovereign state because it is the only other than Croatia in which they are a constituent people, that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina preserves its independence and enters Euro-Atlantic integration, especially in the European Union, because when it is in the European Union with the Republic of Croatia then the border between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina will be so-called. A soft border. And in Croatia, it is a great task to stop selling fog rather than to launch a whole series of cross-border projects that will ensure not only the quality of life for us in Croatia but also people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because logic is the thing that the realisation of cross-border cooperation projects funded by the European Union's structural funds will be of the greatest benefit to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina because they are the most concentrated ones living in the border areas. Therefore, the issue of the reconstruction of a refinery in the Bosnian ship is not only an ecological issue for the Slavon ship but also for the Bosnian savoury. The issue of cross-border cooperation in energy, tourism, the development of agriculture, the development of a small and medium-sized economy is an essential issue for staying and surviving among other people on the other side of the border in Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily by the number represented by Croats. In this respect, I welcome the opening of this debate. It is not because it is hard to go into law because the law will make it difficult for us to establish quality policy, but we are because the Government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the Croatian Parliament and key institutions of the emigrants define a new platform that will then be implemented with a full heart, not one writing, and the other working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65105	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have six corrections of incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65106	Just Mr. Vice President, is it true that we will discuss today's immunity to one of our parliamentary colleagues, a gentleman from Kozarcheva. It is alleged that the DORH sent one such request to the Assembly and that this should be discussed during the day. It's news from portals, constituency towers, newsrooms and so on. Is that true or is that under the quotes of a duck?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65107	Well, Mr. Representative, you know that the agenda is determined and complemented by the President of the Croatian Parliament who is currently not chairing the session, so the answer to all questions about the amendments to the agenda can be given by the President of the Croatian Parliament and we will wait until he arrives. We'll continue to correct the incorrect allegations. First respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm not gonna fix my colleague, Beus Richembergh, what he meant, but what I noticed was that he said incorrectly. So, you said that ethnicity can't determine someone and can't be a state. Neither does the state, nor does it, but everyone pleads. Here's a census of the population will be thanked to God next year and everyone will declare their ethnicity. Furthermore, you said that emigrantism is not a specific feature of the Croatian peoples alone. Of course, many have left out of the angry need as you say, but the specificity of our eviction was that tens of thousands were leaving because they thought otherwise. But they're not specific about the fact that they didn't have peace either, so they were haunted by the UDBA and God knows who and many didn't even come back alive. You relativize it, but those who live there far away and feel nostalgia it's a big problem for sure, and they showed their love for the Homeland when they needed to and then they proved themselves right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65109	Thank you very much. The next amendment has a respected representative, Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Beus, I will correct your incorrect claim when you were talking about your trip to America with your colleagues and when you said that there were Croats in Cleveland someone was telling them about you who came from the coalition that you were you. Well, look, it's not. There is television, there is still then they watched so people saw when they voted on the independence of the Croatian state in '91. that you just got up and left. But that's your style, you know, so then they imagined whether you really were the ones who wanted the state of Croatia, did you really No, I'm not ashamed, it's true. [[I've got a break-in on the side.]] No I am not ashamed it is true because you can see this truth now in the archives of Croatian television and every day when the independence of the Republic of Croatia is marked we can see what happened in the Parliament, and therefore these people do not need to be told much to our Croats. They see, they have their brains, they have their thinking, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65111	Thank you. The correction of the incorrect allegations also has a respected representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Richembergh. I must really correct your incorrect quote when you say that Croatia has been leading a hypocritical policy for a long time. Well, Mr. Richembergh, you know very well that in the time of the Homeland War, in the years of the Homeland War, when Croatia itself was taking care of less than seven hundred thousand exiles and refugees. We called refugees under the Law on the status of exiles and refugees to the people who came and achieved their status. It was mostly Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition, I have to do this now may be my valuable position, but I will also say that I am happy that today in the Croatian Parliament we are talking about this topic, the strategy and the law, because this is actually the civilization's reach and commitment of the country to the Croats. Thank you very much, not any thanks, but a simple commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65113	Thank you very much. The next amendment has a respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Beus, I'm going to correct your inaccuracies. You said I'd try to quote myself. Croatia, it is necessary for Croatia to stop selling fog as you have called it, should already support cross-border cooperation. This is incorrect for you, because I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, and you are in this electoral unit and county that borders like Brod-Posavina already have a whole series of projects precisely cross-border cooperation where they extract from European funds structural for environmental protection, water protection, air protection and economic projects. So, Croatia just opposite supports and encourages its local environments to co-operate and have this one joint cross-border co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65115	Thank you very much. The final correction of the incorrect allegations and the esteemed representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll also try to correct this inaccuracies. When counterpart Beus said cross-border cooperation projects with Bosnia and Herzegovina should be launched. Wrong and false. My colleague Ivanka already told me, and I'll fill it in. These projects already exist. There are programmes for cross-border cooperation financed from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, from the pre-accession funds of the European Union. Here is only one in a series of examples of the municipalities of Dragalić in Croatia and the municipalities of Dobretici in Bosnia and Herzegovina who successfully implement the project from one pre-accession European Union fund, and this autumn there will be a whole range of workshops, education and units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, while also for units of local self-government in Bosnia and Herzegovina to prepare even more high-quality funds that follow us from pre-accession funds and structural funds of the European Union. So it's not true that the projects don't exist. They exist and will develop even more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65117	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss clubs and end up with the HDSSB club. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the MPs, fellow MPs. Well, I didn't want to report for the correction of Mr. Richembergh's incorrect quote, but when he spoke of the mistrust of our eviction on his arrival, I don't know where he was in New Work, Washington, etc. then I must say that a month or two ago I read on the web site that in the Sarajevo list "Days" in May this year was a big headline that stemmed from talks or interviews by the president of your party or Mrs Vesna Pusic in connection with the relations between Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina although it is not the subject of today's debate. And the title says this: "The Homeland War Declaration" brought by the Croatian Parliament "should be marginalised". And now how can that trust you speak of with that aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina that has been the subject of those intense debates already in the Parliament has confidence. So our diaspora in representatives of those who speak like that. The love for the Homeland that our emigrants have shown whatever they call them or whoever they are, whether in Gradisto of the Croats, were Croats in, so those who were there national minorities in Bacakh, Srijem, Banat, Romania, or those who moved for evil over the centuries, whether they were economical or political in the regions and countries in which they lived. So they showed you're stealing love from Homeland in 1990. That's right. And it's not true that that love is the only one who has become concerned about this country, this care. And I have so many internet memos, e-mails where people know very well what's going on here, who brought this country into this situation, and if he's brought the state into this situation through corruption and crime, then he's looking at them in the world differently. 20,000 Croats today whether they are in their, so family to say... The tree has a father, grandfather, or any grandmother, mother, so that they are Croatian ethical origin, is looking for Croatian citizenship today, and it is not true that there is no interest of Croats either after return, whether for Croatian citizenship, or if nothing else that has Croatian citizenship which can be admired and proud of its neighbours in New Zealand, Australia, etc. [[You don't understand.]] But why is 20 thousand Croats in MUP drawers waiting for that, the realization of that status? And the Ministry of Economy prescribes that it can be imported to say so under quotes labour force, in the quota of 6, 6 and a half thousand for this year and as much as for 2011, while 20 thousand Croats or origin Croats await the achievement of their dream, which they showed by application at the Ministry of Interior, to achieve Croatian citizenship, and probably a large number of them would come to the Republic of Croatia. And then this 6-and-a-half-thousand quota would probably be at least smaller if it didn't work out, so I'm almost completely not saying delete or disappear. But it is not a topic, but I had to say some things here today, after these discussions, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina then it is quite clear that many have done political harm to the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and when it comes to the 1st point of the proposal for conclusions, that the announcement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is supported on the adoption of a strategy of relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which aims to improve mutual relations, i.e. Achieving an effective and effective system of support for Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in all fields of action for the purpose of achieving common interests, then asking and asking whether it was also an interest to politically divide Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats into two parties? So I'm talking about a leading political force that's the kind of power that's in the consolidation, which was HDZ. Was it the interest of the Republic of Croatia and of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Now there's a rumor about some kind of comeback again. This significantly weakened, weakened political action by the total Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who led to that? Who led the Bosniaks today to elect a Croatian presidency member in Bosnia and Herzegovina in fact? Who has led to today, that today the Croats are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so to say by their numbers at the edge of the constitutionality prescribed by the numerical ones, I'm afraid what someone here says is that these losses are the demographic losses of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina to say unpredictable and terrible. So according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in point 3 of these proposals of conclusions, and international regulations, and given the specific needs of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament is supporting the government in its policy of cooperation with the Croatian diaspora in the world, then protecting Croatian national minorities, and here above all I mean the surrounding countries, where Croats are a national minority, so in Montenegro, Serbia, Hungary, etc., so in the European countries, and ensure full equality, constitutionality and sovereignty of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What does that mean? It's written that way, it'd be foggy. Croatia is a guarantee and a signator of the Dayton Agreement. Clearly, and it is obvious that the Dayton Agreement no longer holds water, that it needs to be modified, or if we are to say people change it. In what sense does the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia mean to ensure full equality, constitutionality and sovereignty of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina? We need to be specific. We also need to know clearly about the international community, and to Bosnia and Herzegovina, we need to be honest with what Croatia and Croats expect in the coming period, and what they expect in the coming period. If there's no honesty, we're clouding things again and people don't know what's going to happen in the future. Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County is indeed after the Homeland War, and in the Homeland War I would say most generously, most warmly receive a large number of refugees from Bosnia Posavina, as I say our fellow believers. And here is today a great number left to live, thank God, in that area only through the Sava, so not far from their hearth. There's a saying that says, and I've seen a lot of panorams traveling Bosnia and Herzegovina, saying "everyone to his house." So everyone's home, that's what it says on the big screens, propagating back to their hearths. Unfortunately, the results of each of their home for the Croats are almost negligible. Is this the fault of the government in the entity Republika Srpska, or in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or have we done so quietly on the emigrated Croats and the economic assistance of the situation in the Republic of Croatia made little of our own contribution to the return, the satisfactory return to the old hearth in Posavina, or to the name and the New Selo, or to Korace, or around Derventa all villages, and where the Croats represented more than 40, 50% of the pre-war population of that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. when I speak directly about Posavina. At the end of what we did to those people who came from Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we settled down the road, so APPN - the Agency is for real estate traffic, here are those who live in Krnjak and elsewhere in these areas where they are inhabited to experience that they have to go further into the exodus into other countries. That's how we turn these refugees into real diaspora. And that is what the Croatian government is doing, which, along with the accommodation that is temporary, which Cain spoke of very uglyly and falsely, has done nothing further to achieve its rights in new hearths. Or we let them return, so if that's the intensity then let it be said publicly, to return to those hearths where there is currently no perspective in Republika Srpska, in Kotor Varosh and... , or I don't know about Banja Luka where really conditions for survival and for life we still have to admit as much as someone's been trying to visit Republika Srpska, awards etc., that they're not supposed to say normal conditions for a decent life of people there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's do something, one way or the other. Either we let these people stay here, give them those rights, or let's say people move to New Zealand, Canada, because we won't help you. In the end, someone mentioned the oil refinery and the oil refinery and environmental protection project in the Bosnian Ship, Beus did, and so did you, Mr. Huška. Slavonski Brod and citizens of Slavonski Brod are screaming at the refinery in Slavonski Brod and nobody, I would say, or very little seems to solve this problem. There is also a problem with our company JANAF, which has an economic benefit from the oil refinery, and now it needs to be said here that poisons both Posavina and Slavonia. And one more thing, there are indications that both the Panchev refinery and the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, the owner or I don't know who, there's also these cartels that I don't speak to companies, are used to produce not only oil and oil products but also for something else that I'm still saying to investigate, and what I'm still trying to get data and what would border on, to say doubting the production of something that is used and for military purposes. I would not like to present the information here, I do not have the right information yet, but the Croatian state should be able to take much more and more energetic steps taken for Slavonski Brod, the sixth city sized in the Republic of Croatia with 80,000 inhabitants and the entire Posavina does not die in the smell of the Bosnian Ship refinery, ask you God of what kind of benzene and other couples are produced in the refinery. It's interesting that the refinery in the Bosnian ship existed before the war, but this kind of smelles to say the poisonings that come from the air, and the question is that it floats along the Sava River and sails, they didn't have the kind of olfactory properties that they now have. This is why doubts are even greater, and the Croatian state should be far more energetic, the Croatian Government and the Ecology Committees, etc., that this situation is definitely resolved in terms of cross-border cooperation and sustainable survival and development of Croats, as well as all others in the area of Posavina and in the area of Slavonia as part of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65119	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. This concludes the club debate. We are moving on to an individual debate and I am also reporting that the time has expired for submission of individual hearing applications so that we now have at last 6 registered deputies and MPs. First respected representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am as a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, and I must say, in the previous term of office of members of the Subcommittee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia who acted within the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I mention this subcommittee which has already taken some first steps to address the problems of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, and this committee has largely continued and has come to the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament with the proposal of these 3 conclusions to address the many problems of our countrymen living outside the Republic of Croatia. We have already heard from our colleague Lek today and several times, I apologize, it has been pointed out several times that Article 10 of our Constitution is precisely defined by the relationship of the Republic of Croatia to its citizens. However, we must say, and we have heard from the committee presidents, how we must observe these conclusions in context, I would say what is also underlined, three groups of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. We certainly reiterated that Croats outside the country and Croats in the country have the same national identity and cultural space. So that's exactly what we need to emphasize here. According to the conclusions of this committee, Croatian emigration is made up of a group of people who have moved from either economic or political opportunities to overseas countries or other European countries, they face problems first of all, I must say now with their descendants, problems of cultural identity, preservation of language, customs. Most of the time, they are people who have managed, and we have heard today that there are a group of people who have not been able to manage in their new countries where they live, but in most of them they do not have any material difficulties. They have a secure existence, but they have greatly helped Croatia during the Homeland War, but the most pronounced problem when you talk to these people is the preservation of exactly national, cultural identity. In fact, in younger generations and generations, and the preservation of language. Everyone's working on it. I must say that Croatia is currently providing through the Ministry of Education and Teachers of the Croatian Language, that through a whole series of projects in the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration is helping the work of civil society associations that promote and preserve national identity. However, we must say that there are a lot of people in this group of Croats who could help Croatia solve these economic problems, but also in the problems, above all, of the development of science in our area, because in this group we can count a whole series of highly recognised world scientists, the origin of Croats, and that in this future strategy, in my opinion, we must find a place for this very important group of our citizens. The other group is the Croats we have to talk about because those Croats are a national minority in the countries in which they live, and I have already said to that group of Croats, in this Committee and now on this committee, we can say that if we can even talk about sharing a group of Croats, we can divide into two groups, that national minority living in European countries has long been an indigenous national minority, such as Austria, Hungary, which has solved many existential but also cultural and national identities. However, we must deal with those national minorities in the countries created by the former state, where our compatriots, always despite the signed bilateral agreements, face difficulties. Both in election laws and in the exercise of their national rights. So, they especially need to be dealt with by this strategy and given the emphasis precisely on creating such an atmosphere in these countries that they are accepted, at least as little as we do, and we must say that Croatia pays full attention to its national minorities, that through this Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we have created good conditions and a climate for space for all our national minorities, through electoral laws, through the Law on the Conservation of Language and Culture, so we have the right as a state to demand that our national minority also achieves such rights in the countries in which they live. And this third group of colleagues today spoke of is indeed a group of Croats living in Bosnia and Herzegovina where they are a constituent, sovereign, equal people with two other nations. We certainly need to support them, primarily because of our good neighbourly interests, because of the preservation of their identity and importance as the people of the constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also what we have emphasized about both the economy and education and science. So we need to take special care of them. And finally, I want to point out something as a member of this Committee, that by discussing almost every session, we have highlighted these very problems which are somehow from which these three conclusions came that the Republic of Croatia should be like many European countries, and even countries in our environment, we have also mentioned Slovenia as a country in which the Croats are not a national minority, but the Slovenians have the Law on Slovenians living outside the Republic of Croatia, so we must certainly create a good legal framework, but also a strategy on our compatriots living outside the Republic of Croatia, and therefore I am pleased as a member of this Committee and a person who deals with these problems for a long time and establishing this commission to draft laws and strategies in relation to the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. For surely for all of us, and above all for all of us sitting here as representatives of our environments, is certainly the goal of preserving cultural, national, identity, language, culture, strengthening economic ties and cooperation with Croats outside the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65121	Thank you very much. I now give my word to the honourable representative Peter Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will also say a few words about the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, since I am also on the Committee for Croats outside the country. Under the influence of various historical, political and economic reasons, Croats have continuously evicted for centuries from the present Croatian spaces to neighbouring European and overseas countries which, depending on the country of residence, have different positions and status. All Croats, no matter how and where they live, are members of one and indivisible Croatian people. The Republic of Croatia does not have a specific roof law that would regulate the issues of relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but there are individual and partial legal and sublegal solutions as well as general legal and international legal acts in various areas that directly or not directly regulate this relationship. Furthermore, there is no special body in the Republic of Croatia that would coordinate the work of all state institutions that care about relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but, according to certain ministries and institutions, there are certain forms of institutional solutions or certain practices in relation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. By fulfilling its constitutional obligations, the Republic of Croatia is making a lasting effort to create a fair society by achieving sustainable economic development, as well as protecting the rights and interests of all Croatian citizens in both the Republic of Croatia and those outside the Republic of Croatia, and guarantees special care and protection to parts of the Croatian people in other countries. I'll tell you a few examples that I personally visited Saturday, Banja Luka of our Croats how they live and in what conditions and what percentage of their return is. Let us take to our Subotica where Croatians have always dominated, however, are not in the majority anymore, they complained that Croatian companies are coming to work there but all of them have tried to contact representatives of Croatian companies to make contact with a part of the Croatians, but they have not come across understanding. They've always received those other ones, but there's never room for Croats. They live very hard, they don't work, and I think they're in pretty bad conditions and I can say they're second-class citizens. Furthermore, I also visited Banja Luka, where the mouth of Republika Srpska and President Milorad Dodik were full of Croatians to speak to the Croats, and our President Josipovic was recently, to return, talking to the Croats. So I ask you after 15 years to talk in a quiet tone, let's talk about the return of the Croats. I was 2% a few years ago, only 2% of the Croats came back. So where do we live? You can see how much in Croatia and today the European Community is returning, returning national minorities to Croatia and we are normally the only country that wants to be a European state, and the President is laughing at us recently on television. Yeah, that I'll take care of it. I've been to the high-ranking Bishop Komarica's, we've been reviewing and we've been for two days, we've been considering the position of the Croats. But the bishop and the team are there really people are working. He's got 61 employees, hasn't asked for national employment. There are also Bosniaks, and Serbs and Croats, have a cow farm produced by Sir Trapist, a humanitarian centre where everyone comes regardless of religion and ethnicity all come to the bishop. They have their own hospital where they treat for free, the drugs give. What they get for charity gives for free. They have their own school where from the senior officials of Republika Srpska children go to their high school. And it's one of the examples that holds that handful of hrvats together and just stay on their hearths. We went to this village of Liskovci so close to about three, four miles from Banja Luka, but that village was destroyed. We had church whatever, church holiday, at a church that was torn to the ground. Houses torn down. A few people came back, but all came from Zagreb from everyone who was persecuted. They barely came because there was a road in the bushes, they had to crash a few days ago, there's no asphalt, there's no electricity. But we went through other places where Serbs were inhabited, asphalt and electricity existed everywhere. And then we made an observation, they were representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where they made decisions to rebuild 20 houses. However, Republika Srpska has not restored any houses there, they are in no hurry. And then we said open to TV cameras if Republika Srpska doesn't take care of these people, not that the asphalt current, that then the Republic of Croatia will invest so they won't be ashamed. A Serbian minister who immediately called President Dodik also called, there was a small crowd, don't say that on TV anymore, it's a disgrace to us. And after I don't know a few years of electricity came but asphalt nothing. It's just one example of how our people just don't give them conditions. How he'll get back into the woods, jungle. There's a few people who have cattle, they keep them safe. It's not easy for them, but it can't happen in Croatia. Here in Croatia, who was not an exile, he is an exile, located and see how much we take care of our exiles. And the refugees who forced us out, which means those who destroyed the building-depositing system of the Republic of Croatia, killed them, have priorities higher than our people who were there peacefully. Even some of them had to have guns by force. They're so damaged, they're cut off, they don't have jobs. And here we are being so. So only 2% of the Republic of Croatia has to seek reciprocity as it is there to be here. You see how much we stand out for minorities, so other countries need to single out for minorities, not just in action. Here's what's going on in the Republic of Serbia. The big problem of our Borovo factory today is the non-functioning and inaccessible property and several republics of the former state. It's about sales spaces in Serbia. 82 store and shoe production plant in Sombor, all owned by the Sombor company BONEL, which has declared itself the legal follower of Borov in the Republic of Serbia. The same director who was the director in Borov went to Sombor, took the factory with his mules, and just recently came, got a call neatly, got an apartment in Vukovar although he had already usurped the Sombor apartment, got the keys to his apartment because he had a tenant right, dropped the rolls, sat down with his wife back in the car and went back to Sombor nicely. Here is Croatia, that we do not have some criteria that those who have already taken the property, that they have taken the property of the pine and our Croatian property, have acquired the factory, 82 elite shops around Belgrade use, do not give and have passed even the law that there is no return of property, they have brought it anyway. Next, 30 stores in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republika Srpska entity that holds and uses the same lawless BONELA company Banja Luka, and in Macedonia 19 business premises that have been domestically systematically for 15 years that court disputes do not want to return Borova. It's just one example of how the difference between our country, I can say a new state that's only 20 years old but in 15 years to get 2% back. I can't figure it out. And President Josipovic had good intentions, and he must not be a man and slap his hand on the table, not that this one lies in his eyes, yes, yes, no worries we are now. Well, he's got to get rid of it once, so if we're still waiting 15 and 30 years, no Croats will come back, and people want to come back. I still have to tell the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65123	Mr. Representative, 10 minutes have elapsed for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65124	Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65125	Now we have two replicas. First of all, Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mlinarić really said this well together, I believe he could talk for minutes and hours about this problem and it's common knowledge. And I especially care about what he said about the status of Croats in Republika Srpska in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and he and many of us are convinced of what conditions Croats live in Republika Srpska in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So a bit of a funny and naive effect on that invitation the other day of President Dodik calling, extending his hands, calling on the exiled Croats from all other countries, especially from the Republic of Croatia to return to Republika Srpska, to provide them with living conditions, and they cannot guarantee the conditions of a decent man or for the lives of Croats who remained alive in Bosnia and Herzegovina in Republika Srpska. I am speaking because in the area from which I come, there are hundreds and thousands of Croats who are exiled right from Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina who are not even aware of what kind of Croats live in that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they are thinking about returning and really naively and funnyly acting this call before our President Josipovic who of course approved it all, seems and believed that the Croats are returning to Republika Srpska that they will be assured of the conditions of life of a worthy man who today is not unfortunately true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65127	Thank you very much. Another replica, the respected representative of Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I want to talk one little different way after all. I also went with the bishop to visit some of the Croats who started to return there, I was in Liskovica with the bishop when the first families came and when the electricity was being introduced to them and I personally saw grandparents burn the electricity and it was really a great courage to go back to such places and see what people would actually live on. But I would still like to warn you about an appointment I just heard where you say you shouldn't trust the president who's lying. Maybe it's not the happiest time, you know. It's about promises right now, and it's about projects. It may still be good to wait in the hope that part of those promises and part of those agreements will still be realized. I understand the skepticism of everyone who says so and I'm skeptical after a long time, but maybe not exactly telling a lie. It's still supposed to wait, maybe things move from a dead end. That's what I'm saying because I heard very specific promises now at the last meeting of the two, and later three presidents where it was spoken about how it would be restored in one specific place by a hundred houses. So let's wait until those hundred houses are really restored, if we don't get a chance to tell if someone's lying or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65129	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65130	Here's my thanks to my fellow MPs. I know that you were after that electricity that we were, and then you left when it was opening and all, but if we hadn't gone, it wouldn't have been. But believe me, I can tell you that he's bypassing the truth, Dodik, but we have to tell those people he's lying. If in 15 years nothing has been done and now whoever's lying, whether we're lying or he's lying. And in 15 years, believe that maybe 2% will not come back and everything, but we have to try to have pressure. If we are being pressured, and they don't have to do it, we even invite all of our refugees, and he simply doesn't have any renovations. You know that when we were 20, the solutions arrived. But yet the Croatian state will be those who have not yet had the right, who were in the making, but 20 were those who had just received solutions back then. And I think that we should all advocate that not only in this Liskovci and Banja Luka we need in all parts of Herzegovina, Bosnia and Macedonia, but especially in the Republika Srpska situation is critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65131	Thank you very much. I would really warn that our Rules of Procedure, in Article 215, prevents the demeaning of representatives of foreign states, including, of course, the demeaning of mutual representatives or representatives of the Croatian people, religious communities, national minorities, and indeed, I would warn of the appropriate relationship, the need for proper relations with foreign representatives. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear Representative Dragan Vukic is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative of the Croatian Government. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament be given conclusions regarding the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. In earlier Parliament meetings there was a Committee on Immigration which covered Croats who do not live in the Republic of Croatia. A new board of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, was created in this assembly. Many European countries have such or similar committees. I believe that in the future Council meetings this committee will get even better results and that it will have far more space to work. This committee in the future must be a bond between every Croat in the world and the largest legislative body in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian people are a nation that lives all over the world and depending on the country in which representatives of Croatian people live in those countries of Croatia have the status of emigrants in the overseas countries and in some European countries. The status of national minorities has Croats in neighbouring countries and other European countries and Croats as third category of living as sovereign people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All Croats around the world, regardless of their status in the country of residence, should be a bridge of cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the countries in which they live. Every Croat in the world should have rights in the Republic of Croatia, as well as obligations to the Republic of Croatia as their home country. Immigrant and Homeland Croatia should work together to make every improvement of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people as a whole or perhaps even better, as they did in the Homeland War and in the creation and defence of the Republic of Croatia, no matter how distorted and attacked in certain media, but I will say something about the media later. And that is why today we are discussing the conclusions of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia which are the new approach of this government to the Croatian people in the world, which are the product of the thematic session of our committee, which had the working name of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, cooperation and commitment. I want to highlight these two words of cooperation and commitment. The conclusions support the adoption of a strategy of relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. And the adoption of the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Of course, these conclusions provide full support to the government on its European path and cooperation policy with the Croatian diaspora worldwide, protecting the rights of Croats who have the status of national minorities in countries where they live and ensuring full equality in the sovereignty of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The creation of a strategy and the adoption of legislation opens up a space for the legal, functional, transparent action of the Republic of Croatia towards its compatriots outside the Republic of Croatia. But the obligations of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to their country of origin will also be regulated. These two documents of strategies and legislation open a broad field of action both for the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. That's why my invitation to all left and right, to the associations dealing with emigrantism, to the Catholic Church in Croats and to all well-meaning people to engage in the making of these documents so that they can ultimately give the best possible result. Full support and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to produce these documents and request that we bring them to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible because this law can also be an important part of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. And the very fact that I was elected to the 11th electoral unit obliges me to say a few sentences about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Lately, most recently after the last elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and today, we have also seen more and more loud stories on all sides in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the world about the unequal position of the Croatian people within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bringing these conclusions and adopting laws and strategies will not greatly change the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But we as the signatories of Dayton for the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the survival of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, we need to talk about the unfair situation everyone is talking about. Dayton stopped the war, and that's the good side of Dayton. But Dayton didn't bring in any solutions to functional Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, functional Bosnia and Herzegovina should be made primarily by politicians within Bosnia and Herzegovina. But all the politics and public in the Republic of Croatia can help with the adoption of the Constitution, the new Constitution in Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus improve the position of Croats in the country. Who are you that can help? It can help, of course, politics, I can help the media, and it can help the public. The state policy of the Republic of Croatia must clearly support the policy of legitimate Croatian representatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On their way to fighting for the equality and equality of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those performances must be clear. The media in the Republic of Croatia must report truthfully to the Croatian public on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And some media have to stop crucifying Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats, as it does in addition to harming the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the Croatian public is concerned, she has the right attitude and stick to the love of her neighbor through numerous actions, including the latest events of what was currently tied up in the Neretva valley, where the water did not even stand at the border on one side, or help on the other hand because in trouble we understand each other best. And being divided by the state line is the least of our faults. How many Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are in trouble today are speaking the performances of all representatives and all clubs around the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We agree on a diagnosis which is good. I hope we agree on the cure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65133	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Before we move to replicas, I would like to invite you to welcome the Group's delegation to the European Parliament, led by Vice-President of the European Parliament, Ms Silvana Koh Merin, who are in Zagreb today and hold a meeting of their council. Thank you very much. So we'll move on to replicas. We have three replicas. The first came from a respected representative, Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd just in the debate my colleague Drago mentioned a lot of things, but it should take a lot more time to have. I just want to say that the bishop is too high for me, the father of Bishop Komarica complained to me that hundreds of acres of land were taken from the church, no one asked them, but they made entire settlements, blocks. Which is the state to work without a building permit, without unresolved property-legal relations. And here it is, too, and then we don't have to be surprised that our people have nowhere to go back, and no one calls them. There you go, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65135	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragan Vukic also has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65136	Dear Mr. Mlinaric, you have touched certainly a painful topic called the return of property within Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a process that goes as slowly as I know it, and there are still a number of people who have not been returned to their property and have not been returned to their property, so it was a church property, it was the property of private persons. And hope that they blow some better winds and that people will come into possession of their property, and already when I have taken the word on the subject, then I invite the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia to help with the return of the church property, because the bishop's palace of Bishop Trebinjski in Dubrovnik, also the bishop of the bridge that runs the Trebinj Bishop is waiting for the return of that palace.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65137	Thank you very much. And a respected colleague, Stjepan Milinkovic, has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said very nicely that many European countries have such a board that takes care of their people who live in the world. And of course, our constitution obliges us to do this, and we have to do it, and our emigration should be a bridge and a bond like you said with your country. And they showed it best in the Homeland War and then when it was supposed to, they showed it right. Of course the homeland should return to them in the same way. I don't expect any legacy from America, but I do believe that gratitude is a fundamental human... And that you should respect and thank those people who... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Of course, the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina should also be cared for, cared for. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] I'm not going to express myself by saying that it wouldn't turn out to be, maybe not to hurt Article 215, but I said in my own time in this high house that faith without action, like a bowl without food. And I'm going to say that words without action are the same as bowls without food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65139	Thank you very much. Replica response, MP Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65140	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I think it was an opportunity in the Homeland War for all those who felt and loved the Republic of Croatia to show it. The Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina certainly showed it, did not regret themselves or theirs when it was due to stand in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has one correct relationship with the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course we can never be satisfied that it cannot be better, but what is certain and what will be permanent is that the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina will always have enough love and understanding for everyone in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65141	Thank you very much. And the third final replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you discussed it in the way you did, but I would like to point out a very important difference that I see in your debate. The Republic of Croatia has two categories and two obligations. It's one thing for citizens, but now I'm going to use a saying wherever they are. And the second is the obligation to take care of the parts of the Croatian people. That's what needs to be distinguished. When it comes to parts of the Croatian people, then the Republic of Croatia must have a national programme based on the interests of that part of the people. So care can be taken about parts of the people in their interest. That's the meaning of constitutional norm. And only then, do not give God a party at all, but a national and a national. Since we've been mostly concerned so far... to the harm of parts of the Croatian people, I think and publicly say, without the national strategy you have spoken of for a reason, I think it is most important to reach a national strategy when it comes to parts of the Croatian people, and when it comes to citizens, then it is clear what is meant by that, that it has the protection of every citizen, regardless of whether he has left one day, one year, or 50 years, if the citizen of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to take care and protect his rights, it is not disputed. [[You don't understand.]] It is a dispute when we talk about parts of the Croatian people, then it is very important to find a strategy, a national interest, and to recognize the interest of that part of the people. I think that's where we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65143	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65144	Dear Mr. Leko, about your replica. I agree absolutely that the state of Croatia should have a strategy, and I think our committee has taken the first good step in producing these conclusions if God is going to adopt the Parliament, and the Government is going to propose the creation of a strategy and law and we are going to adopt it again. But there's something else I have to say. I'm a Croat from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'm from Ravno and not to repeat what happened on October 1st of '91. And now from this place I only say who helped people in the flat is the Republic of Croatia and Caritas. There are no third organizations or institutions. This may be from the unfortunate place of the government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Council of Ministers, or the Federation Government. There's the effect of helping that zero and it's crossed. Now, at this point, as I speak in Pop's field, the water column is 20 or 22 meters high, depending on how long it was last night. What is done to these people now after the war, because the irresponsible owners of the hydropower plants in Trebišnica and I will dare say and behave on Neretva to the people living under the dam in one horrible way, must be an invitation to the Croatian government and the Croatian state to react, because we only have left to move out if we are to be blue every 3 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65145	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Next in line is Honorable Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65146	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's a good thing we're discussing this in my opinion, but it's still an extremely important topic. In addition, other countries and other parliaments care and take care of members of their people outside the country of origin. The more Croatia has a huge diaspora, but not only a diaspora, Croatia has what a rare country has, which is that it has members of its people in another country that is not diaspora, but are authentic indigenous and... People, and it is the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[You don't understand.]] He said that it is good to discuss this, although I am surprised, so I express not only the surprise and dissatisfaction of why we are only discussing it today, from the material we see on the board, the parent board discussed and adopted the proposals on 26 November last year, so more than a year ago, and we are only now discussing it here in the Assembly, I don't know why the rulings have been waiting with this topic, it seems that the situation of Croats outside of Croatia, and above all the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are discussing only at the time of the election, and when there is no choice that this is not considered an important topic. We should've talked about this before, but it's good to see you today. The interests of Croatia, here all colleagues have more and more reiterated that Croatia's interest in the existence of Croats in BiH, but also BiH as a country 3 is an equal and constitutive people. It is Croatia's interest and therefore we must support it in any case, even through these documents that we are talking about. I think three tasks are how we can or how we should help the survival of the Croats in BiH and their better position. One is in the constitutional and legal position, the other is about helping to return or survive there those who are and the third around a series of economic policy measures. Therefore, ensure their economic interests and the economic interests of Croatia in that country. When it comes to constitutional and legal positions, it has been said for years, both politicians and political parties and scientists, experts, media all and the fact that BiH's constitutional and legal meaning is politically incomplete, if I may say so, the country. Dayton was able to stop the war, a constitutional provision was created as a temporary solution, but this temporary solution has been going on for 15 years. It is certain that it must come out of this position of the asymmetrical arrangement of the state. BiH is one of the few or perhaps only state that has such an asymmetric internal state arrangement where there are 2 peoples and 3 entities, where there are 2 entities in which one is absolutely centralistic and the other is decentralised. So an asymmetrical device that can hardly function in a country that doesn't even have a single within itself state arrangement. In this respect, first of all, I think it is important to ensure BiH's viability as a country equal to 3 peoples, in particular to ensure the equal status and equal position of the Croatian people in BiH. The problem with BiH is that there are real or thorough fears of each other. Bosniaks are afraid of Croatian or Serbian separatistism so as not to divide the state, Croats and Serbs are afraid of Bosniak majorisation and a long policy is being built on these fears and there is no single solution. But it is right now that we should start with these fears, respect these fears and say that BiH will not be divided, it will be unique, there will be one state, and on the other hand ensure that the Croats and Bosniaks are not majorised. Another thing that should absolutely help, so help in returning and help in the survival of those Croats who are in BiH, because the Croats must have experienced the largest exodus in the 1990s in the war. Of the 760 thousand Croats according to the most optimistic estimates, because the census does not exist, there are now around 450 thousand. Such an exodus or such demographic loss has no other people in BiH. So you need to do a lot more. A lot has been done, but a lot more on the way back, but also the survival of those who are there. When it comes to help, you know what we say, help is, it's important to come, it's important how it is, it's important what it is and most important when it's given. If given too late and best help won't be of much use. I was recently with a state delegation headed by the President of the Republic, and there were other fellow MPs, and we were in Jajca and Banja Luka, so we met alongside the rest with a series of refugees or returnees' associations, and one said the first aid had only been granted for the return of 2001. First aid only in 2001. Late, because when someone stays out of his house for many years, outside of his neighborhood and somewhere else, life will be hard to come back to. So aid has often come late, and I don't know if it's the result of a systematic policy to make it come here on purpose late, maybe even that. What should, therefore, not only rebuild houses but also rebuild infrastructure because if a man has a house, and there is no road, there is no electricity hard to live there. And thirdly, to provide economic assistance and incentives, so that people living there live economically stable and better. And ultimately, ensure that if you want some stimulating measures for Croatian economic entrepreneurs who will invest in BiH because it is Croatia's interest and because of Croatians living there, but also because of Croatia's interest. What is important, which is that the Croats in BiH must receive a clear message and repeat it over and over again because often times it has not been so that BiH is their homeland. That BiH is both a country and a country of the Croatian people, as it is both Serbian and Bosniak because it has often been led, messages given to Croats are different – that BiH is not their country and even it was a shame to live in Sarajevo but people have been forced in some way not physically, but to flee, to give birth to BiH, and even though they are an indigenous constituent people. Such messages are certainly not used by Croats in BiH and should be addressed to them exactly the opposite. Messages should be sent that nothing less are Croats that are from BiH than some other Croats who are not from BiH but are from Slavonia, Dalmatia or any other part of Croatia. What is most important, and what I want to underline, must not Croats in BiH and otherwise Croats in the diaspora be means of subscribing and inter-party thinking or courtship. In my opinion, Croats from BiH, when it comes to Croats in BiH and Croats in the diaspora, there should be an extra-party policy where Croats will not be instrumentalised in BiH for this or that political option but help them because they are Croats, not because they are members or support this or that political option. Therefore, Croats outside Croatia must not be seen as good because, and desirable because they vote for this or that political option but they are good and desirable because they are there, and no matter what their political commitment is and which political option they vote for. Therefore, it is necessary to create a prerequisite for Croatians to reach a certain minimum national consensus on the survival and development strategy of Croats in BiH, and then all political forces in Croatia provide unique support by not sharing here by party or by Croats in BiH per party. Otherwise, I said about the figures, so the Croats suffered the most in demographic terms in the 1990s, but Croats in BiH have 2 countries. Both BiH and Croatia. But there is, if there is not enough attention, a real danger that they do not have any of the words symbolically not and really, because in BiH they will become marginalized both numerically and politically, and in Croatia often unwanted or created animosity towards them for these or those reasons. And one of these reasons is that the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina are bound by one political option, one political party is mostly HDZ and wants to be instrumentalised in this way because it is not good for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is not good for them to be watched through these glasses here in Croatia because the political option in Croatia has the support of only 25% of Croatian citizens, therefore, not only should Croats be attached exclusively to one political option, and then to those who do not support that option. Therefore, neither Croats should attach themselves to any political option nor be abused or used here on our part. And finally, it is in Croatia's interest for Bosnia and Herzegovina to survive and develop as a country equal to three peoples, in which Croats will have their equal status in political terms in all respects, it is necessary to ensure political equality, economic sustainability, cultural, educational, linguistic and remaining specificity, and I think that this is the interest of both the Croatian state and all political parties, and we do not need to share in this sense in support of all these proposals and ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65147	Thank you very much. First of all, we have two replicas, dear colleague Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I am joining my fellow representative and I owe one apology to the former Deputy Prime Minister, colleague Adlesic, because she is a large part of the government's vice president, a large part of the work she did in Republika Srpska and especially in those parts I spoke of but for a short period of time I simply didn't get that part highlighted. I know you've been in the water, it's been rain and mud, but you've done the job, not just then, even further, I apologize for not being able to mention everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65149	Thank you. He's a colleague of the Husk Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Jelusic said a lot about what I would immediately sign and apparently that after a pre-election campaign was conducted for the president and in Bosnia and Herzegovina he knows a lot about the lives of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina because he spent a lot of time there with the candidate in the tour of our Croatian citizens. I wanted to say one important thing, take advantage of the opportunity to report for the replica, after my last announcement, I got one message from my fellow citizen from the area of the town of Pacrac, who says among other things, asking us not to force us to return to Bosnia. It is one Croat living in the area of Pakrac, thank God they have managed to live in normal conditions, in civilized conditions, have no bigger problems and obviously do not think about returning to Bosnia, or Republika Srpska, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are problems that Croats have problems with property rights, having problems restoring housing, having big problems with employment, sure that our people who have been expelled from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats from BiH living in Croatia are not even at the end of their minds until these preconditions are created, do not correct their return to Bosnia and Herzegovina in this case are concerned with returning to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65151	Thank you very much. He reported on behalf of the promoter, distinguished colleague Ivan Bagarić. Here's my colleague, Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before I look back at some of these exhibitions, I think it is very important to say that there may have been little debate on the overall consideration of Croats outside Croatia, I would say a little in the direction in which to go but not so much. So, Croats who have been exiled from Bosnia and Herzegovina live in Croatia should not fear any coercion or coercion will be for their return, there is no talking about it. On the other hand, it is very important to say that Croats who have been exiled from Bosnia and Herzegovina are not responsible for building their homes, should be responsible for those who are the heritage of the state and, on behalf of those who have banished them, the state. So Bosnia and Herzegovina should build a home for each of its exiles. Republika Srpska if it wants legitimacy, it needs to secure money and should produce an environment in which a person can feel good and whether they will choose to return to Republika Srpska or not, that is their choice. Whether they will replace their property the next day, sell, or leave for a memory is also their choice, it is only unacceptable that a home which is broken down not to be fixed. I have to add the following to that. I welcome Mr. Josipovic's departure to those premises, I think he has absolutely an intention to help, to open these issues, and I think that this job is coordinating well, and with those he meets on the ground, but also with our Prime Minister. Therefore, we will see how those who make promises now and whether they will keep those promises in the works will act. But in any case, it is necessary to welcome each type of activity, and it is also necessary to welcome calls for return, because it is better to call for return than to remain silent. So that silence has been for years and it has actually had a crucial effect on how no one has come back. At least this way, people take the responsibility, so we'll see, although I agree with that, and I personally have had the opportunity to speak on the subject, and I said that to return to that space, I cannot assume the responsibility of those who have been exiled, but the state from which they have been exiled. My pleasure that it has been expressed here with some oscillations of different views, it is logical that there are different views on this matter but it is supported by this project and I welcome everything he said on behalf of SDP colleague Leko, with that only one of his little comments on his presentations when he spoke about the matter of Croats being an entity here or there, outside of the Republic of Croatia, as they should have a systematic strategy, there I fully agree and we are talking about it right now. So, I hope that this document will come soon, and I said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted this proposal, that it has organised a working group, I welcome Mr. Barisic, who has contributed very much, who is the president of the independent service for Croatians in the world and the national minority and, in general, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who have already prepared this document and who I hope will soon find in this Assembly and which we hope to reach full consensus on. What my colleague Cain was saying, I think he spoke well, I salute him. That I don't understand how he's going to implement a particular policy if the law isn't passed. So, I don't understand the support, but as a restraint under the law, the law is simply an instrument for implementing a particular policy. So in that case, I don't think there's room for one strategy because it's going to remain a dead letter on paper without an instrument, and that's the law. Since my colleague Lužanski and I are from the same club, not only do I agree with everything he's been saying, but I think he's been making an extraordinary speech. And I thank him. A colleague, Richembergh, also expressed doubts about the law. Well, there's no product, there's no effect without law. Therefore, both the strategy and the law should be in the package and they will be a guarantee of the implementation of what we want. On the other hand, he commented on a few things where he said that people who went away didn't really want to identify themselves with the space where they went. I don't agree with that. Imagine Jews all over the world who, under difficult circumstances, left their premises and imagined these Jews who did not identify themselves with their roots. I don't think that's anywhere. I have not met any Croats who, because of the gravity of the circumstances, have left the space not to be identified with their roots and the people they belong to. My colleague Grubisic you are the vice president of the board and you are very correct on the board, industrious and I don't understand when you were talking about some kind of blurry of these conclusions. So we agreed on that committee that we discussed, we read these conclusions, and we said that three people, we authorized them, we agreed on those conclusions. When they agreed, I had your job on the obvious as chairman of the board and her any objections. So there's no room for doubt that the intention is good, that it's honest and that actually the way we're doing on the board to do it right now. Therefore, there is no need to doubt, question, and question anything. counterpart Jelusic did not contribute to Bosnia and Herzegovina's survival and paid as much price as Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And no one contributed to the survival of a state outside Bosnia and Herzegovina as much as Croatia. Had it not been for the support of the Republic of Croatia by land or air during the aggression against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina would have collapsed as a state, everyone knows. No one can argue with that. Therefore, I am proud and as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose family lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that I love that country, I love it. I feel Croatia and it does not reduce my relationship with each other or exclude each other in that matter. But the unquestionable fact is that Croatians are so unequal and that Bosnia and Herzegovina must first and foremost take responsibility. So we can't go back we can talk as much as we want about the past and any problems that have been. So nothing was perfect at one football game where you're so expensive you can't organize and guarantee perfection, let alone in one war in one humanitarian disaster and every other. And now how that all of the moves of the people who were in a certain space were not ideal and may not have been the most upright, but the consequences of the war were those that were such and that the Croats suffered the most, and that Croatia repeats receiving refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of nationality, contributed the most to the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by international recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well. On the other hand, it is personal and forgive me, but I had the honour of being the first representative, so in the first multi-party elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina elected before HDZ. We raised our hands there for Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty and independence. Had it not been for this, if there had been no vote by the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina from the political parties there, or HDZ, it would not have been possible to adopt the Declaration of Independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina afterwards or call a referendum on Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence. And on the basis of the declaration and on the basis of the Bosnia and Herzegovina referendum, it received an international seal, an international recognition. And thanks to this engagement and Croatians there but also the Republic of Croatia if you will. We had communication of course that we had communication with the international community of communication that we would not be with Croatians from Croatia at the time. Who could we talk to? We had absolute support for such behavior. And I repeat, Croatia has given support to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I see I'm running out of time. In my final address after the presentation of the other colleagues, I will very briefly express how we see on behalf of the committee or what the government is doing, what this strategy and the law will look like, and what it should actually produce. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65153	Thank you, colleague Bagaric. Correction of the quote by his colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65154	You obviously didn't understand what I was going to say. Namely, it's not the board that's clouding things. I was on the board and took part in the creation of this, but the Croatian government is leading a foggy policy towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I explained that in my presentation. Furthermore, you know well that the Deion Agreement, an agreement with a mistake, although it has brought peace to Bosnia, is true. But that mistake the Croatian government is not trying to do anything, it does not even work to say that it stands, so nothing is trying to make what is written here, and what the committee has made a decision or proposal, to ensure equality, constitutionality and sovereignty, it is our committee and yours who brought the Joint Committee, the Croats in Bosnia. With what? How? What policy? About that hazy HDZ government policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65155	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. This was the correction of the quote. You're on the cover of fog said fog was gone. And if he doesn't, we'll move on with the debate. It's time for my colleague Mato Biljić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We have before us a document on the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. We split it into two groups today. One group of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is from the former state, and another group of Croats who sailed and went to Canada, Australia, America, and those Croats who went after bread to EU countries. Now only the question is asked today in the answers whether it is the help, whether it is the obligation to repay any previous debts. And we know very well what happened to us in the '90s and what happened to us that we didn't have evicted Croatia. Not only the evicted Croatians across the ocean, but the evicted Croatia that was also in the EU. We know why these people ran away with their stomachs after bread. First, they disagreed with the system that was then because they were expelled. One of those people who ran away back then was my dad, and the other part of the people left because they went after bread with their stomachs. They gave us everything they had. We know that we have Croats outside of Croatia who are their savings, their entire life savings, and they are good, they have good companies there and there are smart and military faces, even in NATO's forces we have our colonels who have given their entire savings to themselves and their wives for the defence of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we have one proud, but poorer people because the system of pre-war impoverished him, who gave more, gave himself, gave his children, gave his blood, stopped to defend the Croatian spaces in Bosnia and Herzegovina and at the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and also in the troops of the Croatian military and Croatian police. Then today we heard that Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not just today, several more times, that Croatia's burden is due to social care. Surely when we take it, I will return to Posavina because I come from Derventa where my house is also torn down, certainly the Posavits do not take any social care from whom they do not live at all in Savina. They live in the Republic of Croatia, they are settled there, they have houses, they have their own companies, they have their own businesses all over Croatia, they work. One small part has those who are either older or have failed to easily adapt to all this and have social assistance and the Republic of Croatia has built them houses or bought them houses and are located in these areas. The rest means impossible. It's impossible for them to have some kind of application in Bosnia and Herzegovina and here, that they have a social. While on the other hand we have only one city located in Brod-Posavina County, one city called Nova Gradiška, which had 1032 new inhabitants between 2007 and 2008. They did not make residential buildings or anything, but people applied, those who sold their property, those who replaced their property, those who went to Bosnia and Herzegovina, those who went to Serbia came, turned over again, took out their personal and social assistance or took the benefits that local self-government units gave for lower pensions. These certainly are not Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are not Croats, nor from Vojvodina, but the people who sold their houses there to APN have replaced them. So you have places where you have one house, there are 37 people, when you come to the scene there's a truck parked, the old house was torn down and it's gone. Therefore, it cannot be said that it is the burden of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, that social care. What should be done first, help Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina not to move out. When it comes to Posavina, then it's the Nuts, then it's Odjak, then it's Shamac, Domaljevac, Brcko, where people live, where they survived, and then help this part. Today we talked about Dodik and Republika Srpska. For sure, Republika Srpska President Dodik has done nothing with such a small finger to return Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina. If they'll do, I don't know. As far as Dodik and his cabinet are concerned, they have one parole, come to the Croats we love you, we want you, come back, but then point set or in brackets and say every Croat half a day enough. That's a lot of every guest from Croatia half a day because they love us as good shopping masters who come to shop in that part. I don't think they built any houses, renovated any single houses in the Republic of Croatia, and destroyed the entire Dervent, one of the other largest Croatian cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They took down the Bosnian ship, they took down Odjak, Modrich, now let's not talk any further. Thus, in that part, I certainly have nothing to believe unless something new is shown. There was a word about how Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina are so they don't see who to vote for, they can't vote for anyone but HDZ. That's not true. They vote for the best programmes and for the people who run the parties to make life easier for them. One year HDZ was out of power, so the NHI won, so it wasn't HDZ. Therefore, they are prone to HDZ, but it has nothing to do with the fact that the Croatian diaspora has nothing to do with the fact that they will make sure that every vote is given to the Croatian democratic community, although they believe it because it created the state. As far as Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina are concerned, I am now talking about Croats from Posavina, Banja Luka region, Central Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are colleagues who have already said something about Croats down from Herzegovina, especially those I said about the Oresje and the enclave, Central Bosnia, if they do not receive certain assistance from the Republic of Croatia, will certainly simply leak the area. There is no return, at least so far there has been no return to the Banja Luka region, the Bosnian Posavina, what the Croatian government did, restored the houses there, made many back a part of the old life and when it died that's it. No conditions, mostly no conditions. Republika Srpska certainly did not create a precondition for the return of Croats. When we came to Dervent and asked the priest from Derventa who had the crossroad while we were rebuilding and building a church in Derventa, no bigger or smaller than the one we left in '92. A year. How many times he's been bullied, and how much power there has helped him in that part of it, it's gonna tear his eyes out. Not just to him, but to the others. Therefore, that we too, we should ask them to do what they say to act on. When it comes to our Croats out there, meaning in the European Union, or Canada, Australia, America, I see that time is running out, they need nothing but to say one good thank you to people, so you helped us at that time, thank you and should see how it can be helped when it comes to language, when it comes to culture, about that part and once again to invite those people to come to the Republic of Croatia, that their capital and mind, what is most important, are to invest in the country and that once again we are here after 20 years to help Croatia when it is very, very difficult for us. Our people in the European Union, my family numbers about 70, 80 members in a small town in Austria. Ten days ago, we were all speaking Croatian, the smallest to the greatest. It's the third generation already. Besides the church family have so their party political option is work, work family and church and they have nothing else there. But they have this call of country and everyone knows, so at least when a child didn't even walk first learns Croatian and then learns German. Thank you. And certainly to support.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65157	Thank you very much. It is next to the distinguished colleague Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here I will say that I also support these conclusions as a member of the Committee on Croats outside the country and also as a member of the Social Democratic Party. Namely, I support the recognition of fundamental human and civil rights through the protection and preservation of cultural diversity for the recognition of the rights of minority communities to preserve identity, as well as culture and language, and also for supporting the equality of the status of the constituent people of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, the president also mentioned Mr. Bagaric and the president of the state and presidents almost at all his meetings in Croatia and around the world, he warned of the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course we all strive for the equality of all nations. In fact, the Croatian people are the smallest people, and that is why they require special attention in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here today we have heard various cases, various fates of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I believe that, apart from us Croats, our policies towards them, Bosnia and Herzegovina should take responsibility. Constitutional law, i.e. Article 10. The Constitution also speaks, guarantees and ensures any kind of custody of the Republic of Croatia for the Croatian people living outside the Republic of Croatia. We're wondering how we can act. So here's to the Croatian community that are integrated into society in the new country, through support, cooperation, then to marginalised our fellow Croatians for protection, or we said how towards the Croats who are the sovereign people in particular in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I would ask myself here why this has been so long, why has it waited so long with such a very important question for the Croats. We've had our country for 20 years. We didn't make these conclusions, we didn't make a strategy, we didn't bring a document like this. And also after the board, i.e. after the conclusions we made on the board of debate, comes only after a year. It took a steady relationship with all Croats a long time ago. All Croats located anywhere, in any part of the world are important. Unfortunately, only Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina were mentioned at this time. I say with all due respect to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, every Croat in any part of the world is important. In this way, these conclusions, i.e. by building a strategy, are one platform where we get a more transparent relationship on all grounds and on the basis of the economy, based on education, culture, etc. Today, inter-border cooperation is also mentioned. We could have had even more cooperation, we could have drawn more money from European funds. I am saddened to hear today from the discussion, and we are aware that it has been manipulated through this time of custody of it. So, taking care of who's responsible for the Croats outside the country. There have been various manipulations. It has even been said that as a party, we are Social Democratic that we are an anti-Croatian party. However, all MPs should agree on this issue. I believe that such a document, such conclusions and documents are not to be revoted and should not actually be the basis for winning political points. I've had various meetings with Croats outside the country and in America and Montenegro. Croatians from Hungary came with Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. When I met them, I also experienced tears of joy and disappointment. Many spoke we gave and bags, bags, and money were brought. Where did that end? People are disappointed. A colleague mentioned they have eyes and brains to think about, wondering where it went. And I also personally felt that reflection of the manipulative policy that SDP is not the one that respects Croats outside the country. And it made me very sad. That's exactly why I called today for a discussion. And I can still say as far as emigrant Croats are concerned that they themselves and their descendants have also enriched the world heritage, they have actually built a bridge of mutuality between the homeland they are in and the homeland they went to. Finally, I would repeat the words of our colleague who spoke on behalf of the club, which is that the relationship with the Croats is a national obligation, a national interest and so far there has been no policy defined. Therefore, I must once again support, or thank our committee who gave the initiative for this and I hope that a strategy will be made soon. And another one. I actually got one observation from my colleague, but he answered the line, so that's what he's gonna do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65159	Thank you. First of all, we have an application for correction of the quote, a distinguished colleague of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Bonačić, the correction of an incorrect quote. In fact, you spoke very nicely just wondering how the SDP only now remembered to speak so nicely of Croats outside Croatia. However, I am correcting your incorrect quote when you say that the SDP and the Croatian government had a manipulative policy against Croats outside Croatia. No, that's not true at all, and that's why it's one false perception that SDP is not the one who supports them. It is true that so far no one in the SDP, that so far at the time of the communist party no one thought of Croats outside Croatia and that they were persons non grata. They were firefighters for you, not for you personally colleagues Bonačić, but for the party in a negative sense, and they were guardians of that Croatian fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65161	Comrade twilight, correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65162	Well, here's that correction to the incorrect assumption that it's been manipulated by the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65163	Thank you. Comrade Franic, please report to the line. I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65164	In her debate, counterpart Bonačić also looked back on the aspects of taking care of Croats outside Croatia. I would like to remind you of an extremely important component, which is the education of geometry in Bosnia and Herzegovina, members of the Croatian people. It started, the project started in 2002, I hope the Ministry of Science and Education continued. Namely, Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina felt extremely legal uncertainty, as members of their people could not help them in such important segments as defining their ownership. So in 2002, the Ministry of Science and Technology divided a considerable number of scholarships, and I personally hope that these people have completed their studies by the end, and that they are doing their job in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also during Racan's government, a larger project was launched to support the bridge university, with an emphasis on medical colleges, equipping their classrooms, and it is not true that the SDP did not take care of Croats in the best-quality segment, which is science and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65165	Thank you. Replica response, colleague Shimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65166	Thank you very much. Here I am pleased with my colleague Franic that you have shown examples and proved that the Government of Ivica Racan, or the SDP, treats the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, here you have responded in this way to Mrs. Sumrak, because I had no way of correcting the wrong assumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65167	Thank you. Here we are, not to end yours and ours, but only ours. In conclusion, an esteemed colleague, Boro Grubisic, appeared on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65168	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Two articles of the Constitution are regulated and determined in some ways by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 10 of the so-called Republic of Croatia's concern for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, but it is very important at this time and Article 32. The speaking constitution and which is, in some ways, I would also say contrary to certain legal regulations concerning Croats, who seek their citizenship from the diaspora, which is Article 32 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which speaks exclusively of the residence, whether permanent, was temporary. There's no word on the residence that's been prescribed to say the ancient Yugoslav laws, and then it brings confusion between the residence and the residence in the heads of our people. It is true that our diaspora and great thanks it made a great contribution, especially to say in cash and materially, those jewels Zagorčevs are 5% in relation to what was missing or part of it and used clearly to defend the Republic of Croatia, but some of the bags that were like these Barisic bags were missing at the time, and people know it, they know it both in Australia, both in Germany, and in New Zealand, and everywhere. People, we must say thank you to these people, but we must allow them to do so according to Article 32. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is passed by laws that will enable them to achieve what they want, and many of them want to eventually return to the Republic of Croatia, and I repeat them in the drawers of the Ministry of the Interior more than 20,000. As for Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is true that the board has been discussing this matter for exactly a year. So what now? Obviously, the elections are closer, when after a year we put in and the declaration and the strategy will now be worked before the elections, and we will say that we are taking care of the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Which is why, when the board delivered this to the government in October, it didn't immediately go into this procedure, Parliament? No, I don't. He's leaving now. Now we will again show great love, etc., and what would worry and I don't know what doesn't. We have to be and work, like when elections pass. The first day after the election is immediately starting a new campaign. So for the Croatians in the diaspora, and so for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so for the national Croatian minorities in Montenegro, Serbia, etc., we have to worry almost to say and watch daily. I am not satisfied with a formula that says ensuring full equality, constitutionality and sovereignty of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Croatian Government must be clear about what it means, whether it is based on that injustice of the Dayton Agreement or something new that would provide Croatians with, therefore, a clear plan of the county in which, or cantons of whatever you want, in... Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[You don't understand.]] So something Croatia must specifically propose to the international community, because de facto Bosnia and Herzegovina is still some sort of... in terms of that. [[You don't understand.]] So Croatia must express its position, the Croatian government. The Committee has it, to be clear, that Bagaric does not get me wrong, but Croatia must have its own policy towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, clearly and loudly. So it must ensure the sustainable and quality survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the return of those who want it, because Huška said someone from Pakrac who won't... He won't, he won't, my God. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, it is the task of the Croatian government, but not just before the elections now, but all these, all these seven years,... , and during the rule of the SDP, so according to the Constitution we have and we must take care of Croats outside Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65169	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Deputy Vice-President Željka Antunovic is the final honorary colleague. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65170	Thank you very much. Allow only a few sentences on this important and slightly neglected political topic in the Croatian Parliament as the highest state legislative institution. Of course, the board's conclusions should be supported, but the policy-making of the interests of Croats outside Croatia does not deserve a positive and transient assessment, of course, according to the interests of Croats outside BiH. Croatians in BiH should be helped in different ways. It is necessary to do everything to open up space for them to protect their cultural, educational and all other interests with their forces within BiH in the right way. However, there are also political interests of Croats outside Croatia, yet I stress a special position belonging to Croats outside of Croatia in BiH, under which not only support and assistance from the Republic of Croatia is sufficient. The Croatian government should have so far and every future Croatian government will have to have a special policy towards the neighbouring countries, especially BiH, and especially BiH from the perspective that the Croatian community lives in BiH as an equal community and that BiH is among other countries of the Croatian people. It is not only the Croatian people's Republic of Croatia but also BiH. There must be, and unfortunately so far, despite numerous voices heard of a great concern for the Croats in BiH. There must be a systematic policy that has so far been left behind and which must be one of the important or most important foreign and political policies of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Croatian state and Croatian government towards the neighbouring country and towards the citizens of the country. I remember that only in 2000 as vice president of one of the Croatian governments first came to BiH for an official visit and that the citizens there told me on a public show: "Please don't help us as Ljubo Cesic Rojs helped us." It is one icon and a metaphor that clearly shows what the Croats in BiH expect from the Croatian state, which they do not support even if it is such assistance. Let's be serious, no one has a monopoly, no political party has a monopoly, care or care for Croats outside Croatia. Let us be responsible and make at last not only a strategy of assistance but a policy towards BiH as a neighbouring country that is also a Croatian country, or Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65171	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the promoter, the well-respected colleague Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all my colleagues and colleagues who discussed it, especially those who supported this initiative, they gave it to everyone, I thank you all. I also thank the government of the Republic of Croatia and here present Mr. Barisic in front of the foreign ministry who are in continuance with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially those in BiH and all HDZ governments since the war on the ground were. Therefore, let us not turn away from the subject and do not need to enter pre-election times in this way now. Some colleagues could hear it and even accuse the government of bringing this along as a god on behalf of some pre-election activity. Well, if that were the case, I'm the chairman of the board, I'm a member of the HDZ, then I wouldn't send in the procedure proposals of these conclusions when I sent them, but I'd manipulate them, as anyone thinks. So, thank God it's not like that, this is a sincere intention both of the boards and the government of the Republic of Croatia and the government has gone a long way in making a strategy. It is not that now I do not know how to remove it from the sleeves before the elections but will put it on the Parliament where it is expected and the government expects a full consensus on this important document for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I'd just like a few more sentences, let me. It's nothing new, it's not our hot water like some people here were surprised by the law, and I don't know what, such documents or similar have both Slovenia and Hungary and Serbia and Ireland and Russia and Slovakia and Israel and many others. And they brought them, of those who are members of the EU, mostly just before EU entry or right after EU accession. Why? Well, because it's changing, it's completely changing the circumstances. So, the country's entry into a new integration European, in this case in the EU of Croatia, opens up multiple possibilities of cooperation with parts of its own people, which will also be found in that community in part or remain somewhere else. However, it will be accessible to Croatia tomorrow by EU members, and it is quite another basis. When it comes to the strategy we talked about here and the law, the point is to re-establish existing institutions. So, they're about to adapt to that new time. So this is a new time, a new challenge, new opportunities. Therefore, the existing institutions and the Croatian queen of emigrants and the independent service headed by Mr Barisic and many other institutions should still experience reconstruction in a way that is one body, a roof body related to the care of Croats outside Croatia and that all money, every kuna and lacks support to Croats outside Croatia, although I think it is wrong to speak help here because it is of mutual interest. Finally, Croatia pays some back in this way, and on the other hand opens perspectives and its own development. So this way, coordinated from one place would work on projects of interest for everyone in all fields. So it's not just about culture, education, etc., it's about the economy and a lot of it. The proposal also provides for the organisation of the so-called The advice of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we have here in the Parliament, will have in the future, so Croats outside Croatia, but it is very important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia also has a Council for Croatians outside Croatia in the future. The council would be attended by representatives, and representatives of, say, individual national minorities, Croatian national minorities from European countries. So, the first man from Montenegro, the first Croatian man from Hungary, president of the Croatian World Congress, member of Croatian Catholic missions, etc. And these people would once or twice debate in the Croatian government on issues of Croats outside Croatia and in a certain way would influence changes almost regularly and analyse the situation. The law is a prerequisite for achieving all this that we're talking about without law has no instrument of implementation. Therefore, the government accepted, in the government's decision I am truly grateful to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, who was on our committee, at our thematic session, where she said the words "The government accepts strategy and law and will bring it as such". It is very important that this roof body that will be the next day be, once a year, submitted to the Assembly here a report on the state of the Croats outside Croatia. We have so far not had that opportunity, nor have we had that possibility, nor had we had a statute or any other, only the organisation of the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and by asking that question in the heat, so we have not put the question of moving back as number one precisely for the reasons we heard here, some people do not want to return. For many of our people from the world, we do not want them to return, where to return, Croats have lived in Hungary for centuries, it is in our interest to live in Hungary and feel good. Croats in Montenegro, not to mention Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So once a year, that body of the state administration, it was called one way or another, I would be the happiest to be the Ministry. In fact, Serbia has the Ministry of Diaspora or the surrounding countries. When it comes to diaspora, I said at the level of economic cooperation, and at the level of cooperation of scientific, professional and any other, preservation of language, culture and diaspora we experience all of our people whether they were born in Croatia or born in the world but there live or other, third generation people who have a sense of belonging to the people. When it comes to the Croatian national minority in the European countries, this is the essence of Croatia's success with this instrument and with the support of this House, so it is said that what the Government is doing now is doing exactly what I am saying and expects the Parliament to support that it can even more fully implement that policy to vote for the full equality of the Croatian national minority in the European countries. I recently had Croats from Montenegro talking about the need to fight, that the electoral law in Montenegro had one representative in the parliament of Montenegro. Look out, the Croats stayed there on the remains of the remains, while at the same time heritage almost 70% of Montenegro's cultural heritage. So it is a specific instrument where other minorities by their numbers guarantee their MP in the parliament of Montenegro. However, Croatians are indeed special because of such a small number, and such a great contribution to Montenegro and it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to achieve it there. We believe it's in the interest of Black Mountain. There were also people here who told us about the fact that Croatian companies working in Montenegro have no regard or feelings for the Croats there, while Slovenians in their Law on Slovenians outside Slovenia give tax breaks to companies working outside Slovenia and work with Slovenians. Therefore, there are countless possibilities in which a single Croatian company that works in Montenegro can be stimulated to allocate funds and help, for example,... which is of the interest of Croatians there. When it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a question of how Croatia will fight for the equality of the Croatian people. Croatia can contribute, Croatia cannot have a crucial impact. First of all, the Croats there must fight for the issue, so we Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina must fight for the constitution guaranteed and vitally important thing. And actually from here, the support of those parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Croatians who have reached political consensus on the issue, and who want to perform uniquely in that field and who will not go below the level of full equality, which includes if one nation has one level of authority and the guarantee of its survival then they have the right to have all the peoples there. If one nation has an entity then it has the right to have every nation, and it cannot go below it because it cannot be guaranteed by Croats there with full equality. The Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are also, and with this I conclude, a great opportunity and great strength and interest of the Republic of Croatia and in itself are these. When it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, once again, Croatia is in the interest of the recent European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina because it is of interest to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I would conclude with a saying that I said, and I read it right before our committee, and I like it very much, and I think it's very symbolic. "The fruits of our future," so someone wrote "are in the flowers of the present". Therefore, we all contribute, we do what we have to do to benefit everyone from what we are talking about both Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia tomorrow. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65173	Thank you very much. With this, we've exhausted all the applications for the debate and the closing word. We'll vote when the conditions are right. Now I'm giving a midday break until 3:00 and we're going to start with point 26. It's a proposal for a law supplementing the State Matrix Act, first reading, P.z. No. 515. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65174	11. Proposal for conclusions concerning the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the proposal of the Committee and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposal for conclusions related to the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is accepted. Please, let's get on board and beg to vote. Score. WITH 101 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against accepted proposed conclusion in the text as proposed by the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65175	And that's why I'm proposing that we go to the announced agenda point, which is - the proposal for a law supplementing the State Queens Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 515 Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 129 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We got him in the mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the First Reading shall be laid down. We have a government opinion delivered. They held a discussion of two committees, both for legislation and for internal policy and national security. We also received a report from the board. For the proposing representatives, one of the proposing representatives is also listed as a respected representative of counterpart Sima Lucin. I see he's already here and I'm giving him my word. Here you go, colleague Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I must admit I'm surprised, although there was a sign that we were changing the agenda, but somewhere a few hours ago I was told to prepare to discuss the Minister of the Interior's report. It is obviously our destiny that we will not discuss this report. I belong to those who wouldn't bring it up in connection with the removal of the immunity of the Sanaders because we had opportunities to discuss it a long time ago, and I hope that maybe tomorrow we'll discuss it because I don't believe that anyone should be afraid, especially of the Home Office gentlemen, of the police to ask them if they've let any agent Sanader leave the country. Since we've been playing this hopa-hopa rabbit these jumps today, and I have to make an observation to the Parliament Presidency that we MPs don't know how complex the agenda is and how it's going to go. Today we skipped some 15 points of the agenda, and it would just be good if at least in the morning before the debate starts, we could get a schedule for that day, but good. I agree with my colleague Pupovac, where he went, that I don't know how much sense it makes to talk about any topic now, no matter how significant it is, given the story we opened in the previous wheel. But good. I'm going back to a law that's been in the Croatian Parliament for several months now. It's a very short one, and to put it that way, it's a clear law. So, this proposal is being amended and we propose that only a few articles be changed in the State Queens Act team before this Law was passed in '93. In fact, there are a number of sublegal acts and guidelines that are, according to us and our grades, somewhat out of date. Why? Because in the meantime, we got a series of laws, so here's to mention only one and the Law on Discrimination, which is a relatively young law, and in fact, we now have a situation that our entire set of laws is in a certain way, so below the constitutional level but even below some legal acts and is not in conformity with the legal acts that are in force. So I will not mention the Constitution of Article 35 or Article 62 and I do not even mention the European Convention on Human Rights, etc. etc. Which I believe you all know together. So just a few words. In this law we propose the following. So there is one group of Croatian citizens, they are so-called transgender persons who actually experience a form of discrimination in situations where they are indicated in the queens that they have changed sex. Since the Croatian state unfortunately does not account enough for the protection of privacy and personal data, it is simply especially for those persons to be placed in the books that they have changed gender. And simply because of this, they suffer discrimination in different situations, i.e. they are exposed differently not to say insults and disrespects, etc. etc. So we suggest that in these three articles, or four articles, it is not possible to see from the queen’s book that it is about persons who have changed gender. It's especially sensitive to you when it comes to children. I know, someone can say that it's only a few hundred people maybe not even so much and that it's not an important law. But we think that when it comes to human rights, it's 50, 500, or 50,000 people that every man and his rights should be taken care of. And in fact, by descending to these more vulnerable levels or groups, we show our sensitivity and our attitude towards human rights levels. So, simple law. I believe that all those who care about human rights and the protection of all persons will be those and transgenders in fact support this bill's proposal team before this law, as I said, has been amended since '93. Someone can say, yes, but in the directions there, and it's not in the basic file, it's in the directions, but it doesn't matter. Obviously, it's not good to see it from the books in question. There's only that much. I ask all MPs, since it is a law concerning fundamental human rights to support this law because they support and affirm both the Croatian Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65177	Thank you very much, colleague Lucin. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. HDZ MPs' club, distinguished counterpart Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club does not support the draft law supplementing the State Queens Act. In fact, we believe that the bill is unfounded and inconclusive and could result in a whole series of abuses, indiscretions and indiscretions. First of all, I think of two basic things, which is the possibility of manipulating or manipulating an identity. And another thing that can happen in terms of abuse so-called abuse. Hiding an identity. Namely, the types and contents of the documents issued from the national nuts are prescribed by the State nuts, registers, extracts and certificates issued on the basis of the national nuts. The national queens shall be issued a type of document and depending on the requirements of the citizens and the purpose of their use in the exercise of certain rights. For example, three types of I.D. are issued from the womb of the born. So, and a birth certificate excerpt and birth certificate. Those types of documents shall have the same evidence power, of course, with the difference in the way in which these data are displayed. One of the proposals in the law itself, therefore, in the proposal of this Law, is that legislative change should apply to persons who have not changed sex but who literally live in another gender for a long time with this formulation, have external physical characteristics of the other sex. This would indeed represent the possibility of falsifying the facts themselves that could lead to identity manipulation in this regard. Furthermore, the proposal would allow, or could lead to, abuse in all those situations if, before and before medical surgery and gender change, it would allow for the change of personal documents by persons who are not transsexual orientations. So, I repeat that they're not those people who are in order to hide their identities. When all of this is accompanied by the fact that there is really no regulation in the Croatian legislation that regulates medical and legal assumptions for the operation of gender change, then the change of sex can also be sought by a person who is married, not only to be married but who is also a parent of the proposed law, and in this sense absolutely cannot be supported. The final Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not support this bill in this regard. So, for some reasons, he, not in a certain sense, but certainly in these things and inconclusive, and in certain situations certainly caused a lot of, a lot of uncertainty, indeterminates that should be completely safe and avoided and not allow regulations to be based on such situations. In line with all the above, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives does not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65179	Thank you. Correction of the quote, a distinguished colleague named Shime Lucin came forward. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65180	... that this law assumes and therefore changes the data in the queen for persons who are preparing to change sex. [[Specially enabled.]] He forgot to add complete medical documentation, because it's not possible to change sex like this, so by snapping his finger, it's a process, and who knows something about it, who's read anything about it, any medical or professional opinion will see that it's been going on for years and years, that it's actually the last surgery. So this is some standard that exists in some European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65181	Thank you very much. No more club registrations, we're moving on to the individual. Dear colleague Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65182	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed Law supplementing the Law on State wombs, which was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, proposes that transgenders who have changed sex or possess appropriate medical documentation, to live in a second birth identity for the last two years or independently of the above, possess the appropriate medical documentation and the opinion of a specialist doctor of the justification for the change of sex data in the public documents in the mother plants of birth, to register new gender data as a basic entry. Furthermore, in the case of transgenders who change their name, it is proposed that data on a new name be entered also as a basic entry. It is also proposed that the facts of gender change and the names of the transgenders that occurred after the basic entry was made, which change the basic enrolment will not be considered a subsequent entry and a note, and that no data on gender change and names when it comes to transgenders are shown in the extract from the birth certificate. Respecting the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in accordance with existing regulations, I point out that the confirmation of the birth of the issue on the basis of the queen of birth, and contains the latest valid data entered in the queen of birth without note of the data on the previous changes made and the time of their creation, all in order to protect personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor of persons, and to prevent any form of discrimination. Of course, a person who has changed his sex and name, and on which there are notes in her birth certificate, may request a birth certificate to which no notes on the changes made are shown, but the changed data shall immediately appear in the intended items of the document. In this way, the personal status of a person and their personal data, which do not have to be known to a wider circle of persons, is protected entirely from any form of discrimination, humiliation or disdain. The possibility that legislative change should also apply to persons who have not changed sex, but who have lived for a long time in a second birth identity have external physical characteristics of another sex, would be the neglect of real facts that can lead to identity manipulation, thus creating legal uncertainty within the social relations, and would also allow abuse. If, before and before the medical surgery, gender change would allow for the change of personal documents by persons who are not transgender orientations and with the aim of hiding identities. For this reason, I do not support the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on State nuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65183	Thank you. There's one, one replication report, Emil Tomljanovic's colleague. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So a respected colleague would replicate in the part where he referred to gender change in terms of the issue of the law itself. Namely, when I spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club and when I mentioned the possibility of manipulation of identity, of course I did not speak either of the legal nor of the medical aspects of gender change, and in this sense it is not as much a replica to you as the esteemed colleague Lucin in a certain sense as the legislator of this law. So I'm also looking back at that finding, and the replica is a respected colleague because it wasn't about sex change, it was about your formulation, so I'm going to quote that it's clear to everyone what it's really about. So it's about a person who's been living in a second birth identity for a long time and has the external physical characteristics of another sex. So if I didn't get this wrong, I'm asking Mr. Lucin to explain it to me, and I think it's a school example of the possibility of abuse of legal provisions in terms of identity manipulation, and logically we can really put thousands of situations together so that this, or this institute, if it passes, I don't think it will, can be manipulated in life.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65185	There's no need to answer that. There is no more individual hearing application. Proposer's representative? No, I don't. I'll close the discussion then. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65186	12. Proposal for a law supplementing the State Queens Act, first reading, promoter of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not accepted. Please engage, we can vote. Score. With 74 votes for, 2 abstentions, 28 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65187	And we are going to the next item of the agenda, which is – - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Personal Name, First Reading, P.Z. No. 516 Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Constitution. We received the proposal. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply when adopted. The government gave an opinion. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation and internal policy and national security. We've received reports from the board. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? It will. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here's your colleague, Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65188	Thank you very much. I don't know if you know your colleagues and colleagues tomorrow is an international day of human rights. Imagine this, that we took the opportunity to adopt two benign laws like this, and that this Parliament on one, because it's a truly symbolic gesture, on one symbolic level actually to mark that day. Here I am interested in how this House tomorrow will mark the international day of human rights. I'm really interested. We had, we also listened to the law on, so the report on the Law on Discrimination, Discrimination of Discrimination, and now I'm not listing one report, one report, another report, and we've found that human rights in Croatia have been violated. Today we have been listening to the report of our committee, but we cannot in any way give weight to this whole story, and that if you want to and at the symbolic level, we will actually make a contribution to the International Human Rights Day tomorrow by voting these two laws. You see, so I'm glad that some of my fellow lawyers came forward, unfortunately only a few are interested in this law, they know when it comes to human rights, I'm not a lawyer, but I've read something about it, so on. Generational laws that treat human rights. Can you imagine what 15 or 18 years of legislation really mean in modern times? That means, do you know how much in 18 years human rights and standards of respect for human rights are shifted? Just take a review of the conventions, declarations and the Council of Europe and the EU, and you will only be able to monitor how far this has gone forward. Now there's another law before us, and there's similar matter, which is the same thing you're looking after that was passed in '92. A year. So, '92. years somewhere in the middle or the other half of that year has come into effect. In the meantime, you can imagine how human rights were discussed in Croatia during the war. There was talk about life, about someone else, some other things were important. And now we simply think that the time has come for some laws to be at least in some parts that don't require a great deal of effort or a great deal of something I don't know material or any other thing that they can adopt. Actually, what's this about? So, I thought we didn't have to talk about transgenders here and what that means. And that I don't have to talk about both physical and these or those characteristics. When you ask someone to simply explain to you what it is, they will tell you, as a rule, people who have not passed surgery, so they have not passed the surgery, so they will tell you this: that, say, men are trapped in a woman's body or vice versa. De facto it doesn't have as much to do with physical, it has to do with physical traits as it has to do with psychics. You know exactly how to, what's the procedure until surgery? So cura taking different hormone medicines, etc., takes a long time. That's actually, that's actually the story of what this is about. In addition to everything here is mentioned metric, i.e. essential medical documentation. Now, as far as this law is concerned, the Law of Personal Name is, in fact, only one or two articles are being amended. So, what's this about? You know that under the current law and it's actually so obvious the kind of discrimination and indulging in the privacy of the bar on this example. Therefore, Article 7 provides that when the process of changing the name is in fact an obligation to make public, or on an advertising board in a municipality, the city points out that some John changes his name to John or John to John does not matter. And what exactly is going on? It happens that these months or as long as it takes, it says here exactly that it's a public announcement, we're actually bringing that person into an awkward position. So, we're not proposing anything but the following, which is that it actually doesn't have to be hung on the advertising board and that with personal data, that personal data is actually handled in accordance with the law. Because that's my personal information, that's my personal information. So it is also not recorded and that everyone can see that the name has been changed when a document is taken. Someone will say yes, but for court proceedings. No, that's not off. If used for the court, if used to combat any manipulations of the law, it is envisaged that this information may occur. And that's where I end up. So neither this law requires any means, nor does this law seek anything but a little good, not even political, but I would dare to say human, humanitarian will. Here, I call you once again if there was something controversial in that law, there was something vague, here's to trying to make a small contribution to tomorrow's International Human Rights Day and to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65189	Thank you, colleague Lucin. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want a word? No, I don't. If we don't, we're going to a club debate. HDZ representative club, distinguished colleague Ana Lovrin. Here you go, fellow Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the opinion of the Croatian Government and all the reasons set out therein, the HDZ Club will not support the proposal of the Personal Name Act, amending and supplementing the Personal Name Act. I agree with my colleague Lucino that protecting human rights has been since '92. the years to this day have made great progress. And I congratulate tomorrow's Human Rights Day on all citizens and all those who fight systematically for them. But, in order to help one group of citizens, in this case, a group of citizens we consider more vulnerable than others, we must not put all other citizens in an unfair position, nor forget all other components of the regulated state and the legal system. Namely, what's this about? With this proposal, I would say for the addition of the Personal Name Act, it is actually proposed to supplement an article that normally regulates the change of personal name. The Law on Personal Name in Article 7 lays down the right and procedure for the change of the personal name. This amendment to the law proposes a new Article 7a which states that this Article 7 will not apply in the event of a request for a change in the name of a transgender person. Well, now I'd say, says a colleague that it's a benign law, it's none, no law is benign, and every one of them is important, but if you wanted to achieve what I think you wanted, then I should have said so, take it a little deeper into this law because you're still going to be left with the provisions of Article 8. and, etc., the Law on a Personal Name which then speaks also say that a change in a personal name will be approved in case the Authority determines justification and will not be approved by the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted, etc., which means that this transgender person will not be able to change his name unless these other conditions are met, so now it will be a question of how the transgender person will in some cases have to function under an old name, in some under a new one. Therefore, it should be pointed out that unlike determining a personal name that is free for a child, parents agree or guardians up to the age of 10, then with the consent of the child. Therefore, the change in the personal name is not free will but is approved in the administrative procedure and administrative act under certain conditions. Why does it matter? Let us not forget the name and last name, so the citizen is not only right but he also has a duty to use his name and last name. Name and last name is a person's identification. The identity of a person is a necessary condition for the exercise of personal rights and responsibilities. So it must be known in some way that the person who used to be called is somehow not now called that, but she bears the same obligations, the same rights as she wore before. We can think about whether it's the right way to advertise it on the advertising board, etc. But the public and other people because every freedom under our Constitution but also by general principles, every freedom is limited only by the freedom of other rights and the freedom of other people, but it can only be restricted by law. So for someone else to have had the right to or to ask her for something or to expect something from her, he must in some way know that this person is no longer identified by that name and name but by some other name and also by the bodies of a state body who may find out, but not by a person who is going to seek the right of those state bodies or courts in relation to that person. Therefore, just in relation to this proof of identity and last name, it is necessary to do everything in this law because it concerns third parties' rights to prevent manipulation and to prevent abuse of a personal name change. But here's the government itself, in its own obvious, says of course I do not want to question the protection of all persons, the protection of their constitutional rights in the event of a change of personal name to his constitutional right to protect personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor. The government also states in its statement that it has been in the multi-year application of the law since '92. the non-compliance of all provisions of Article 7 and of certain other provisions observed. And so the government says that one systematic amendment to the Personal Name Act will be, and I would suggest a whole new law where it will then take care of both these persons and all other vulnerable groups and all people on the protection of their constitutional rights. And maybe it seems to you now that here it is written in the government's statement from the beginning of the year, that by the end of the year, this law will be proposed. I, too, was given the Ministry of Signs that this will soon come before the Government of a new Law on Personal Name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65191	Thank you very much, colleague Lovrin. There are no other clubs registered. We have one individual application for discussion. Dear colleague Ivo Grbic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65192	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law supplementing the Personal Name Act submitted by the Club of Representatives of the SDP is proposed that Article 7 of the applicable Personal Name Act, which has been prescribed the procedure for the amendment of the personal name, shall not apply if the request is to be amended in order to amend the name of the transferee who has presented the relevant medical documentation. Respecting the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it will submit to the Croatian Parliament the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Name, which will be proposed among other things to delete the provisions of Article 7 so far. The law protects all persons seeking to change their personal name or to protect their constitutional rights to personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor. This will allow for the consistent application of Article 14(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that all are equal before the law. It is certainly expected that such amendments and additions to the Personal Name Act will be covered and protected by the rights of transgender persons, respecting their status and position in society. For this reason, I do not support the proposal for a law supplementing the Personal Name Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65193	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bonačić answered the line. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You were talking about protecting a personal name or waiting for more changes to this law. I'd say a few sentences here, and I'd ask, namely, I got some kind of question from the emigrants. It is a problem with the implementation of the Law on Personal Name or on the diversity of writing ground floored by two words on the host, the identity card, the birth certificate extract, whether or not with a cartoon or without a cartoon. Or she wonders, is it according to the law, can the name of more words be associated with the line? That's one question. And the second question is also whether it is in accordance with the law that under the name of a spouse who sometimes has more last names can be placed, of course, his last name, and according to the law, there can only be two words. And I'll quote the law. This means Article 2 in the last sentence reads "The name and last name of which a person is served in legal traffic may contain each for himself no more than two words". So the MUP therefore asks Croatian citizens who have more words in their last name to decide which part of the last name they want to serve in legal traffic. And for this reason, some Croatian citizens are forced to leave part of their last name on the Croatian card, which, of course, creates problems at the border when they appear through, for example. with German driver's license and Croatian driver's license, because on the German driver's license they have a full last name, and on the Croatian license they have a last name for legal traffic. Here's one question they're asking essentially our emigrants and they don't have the answer to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65195	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of his colleague Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65196	Dear colleagues, you have asked a question that is not the subject of this debate, because we are only here to discuss your proposal because the articles that need to be changed are precisely taxed. I suppose, I suppose, here it is on behalf of the motion secretary of state, when the government proposes this... that certainly everything that has been missed so far or that felt like it needed to be changed that it would certainly change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65197	On behalf of my colleague Lucin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65198	Thank you very much. I have to admit that I'm surprised by this great interest in discussing one important law by myself, because when it comes to human rights then things are actually recognized on these small personal individual cases. And until we have a level of human rights and, in fact, human rights as such, we begin to attach ourselves to a person, one person, so for specific things, I don't think we're going to go far. I don't think you actually understood what it was about here. So, some formal things that have been tried to explain that this law is neither this nor that are actually standing. 'Cause look, I don't understand why anyone at this time of technology, computers, the Internet, why whoever's watching the ad board, hey, that's all left from Austria. It's left of Austria that you have to put something in writing on a notice board in some community in the lobby. That I have to admit, I don't understand. Well, I guess it's known that in this country when there's a change in some kind of personal identification, it's actually how, by publishing it in the National Journal, on the Internet, etc., etc. However, the question is also not clear to me, the question is that some other citizen is concerned with changing my name. Citizen...... Well, you see, that's where you and I are different. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's where you don't understand the content and essence of human rights. We're not talking about institutions, we're not talking about justice, we're talking about something else. See, for me, the privacy and inviolability of the house of sanctity and this sanctity are me until I can allow no one to harm my country. And that's where we differ. You see, that's actually the essence of human rights. Look, the explanation the government sent us is not worth the comment. That something's been going on for a year, so if you've had that intensity, I mean what you haven't done. Well, it's not just these two laws. There are also a number of laws in Croatia, from the Law on Citizenship and beyond, in fact, which time has run over. So, colleagues and colleagues, I thank you for this exhaustive discussion, I mean only two debaters, or one debater and two clubs, one club twice. I can only conclude the following, that I'm sad because I don't seem to understand something that when we're on occasion we all swear. And when we're able to fix something, then it can't, it's not going. Why, because the problem is some kind of ad board. Well, I don't think the problem is the ad board, but it actually seems to me that, first of all, it's a matter of understanding things. Here I congratulate you, especially you from HDZ tomorrow, International Day of Human Rights with regret, here's why you didn't support at least one of these two laws. Thank you very much. ... Just one more thing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What my colleague was saying, yes, it's not a measure of things, or it's not an object, but it's actually an argument and it shows how bad this law is, old, unusable. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65199	Thank you. Surely congratulations should first be given to those who are not here with us because we fellow Lucin stayed with you and listened to the proposal and the debate and certainly some of them participated actively, and some of us want to. Dear colleague Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am, not going to pick up, but fellow Lucino to show that interest, that I have followed this debate closely and that we are taking it and we have interests in this topic. But I certainly correct your claim that we didn't understand this, that we didn't understand anything at all from this proposal. We understand it all well, but we don't know the problem of the little man. We also know the problem of a small man, but we also know the functioning of local self-government. With me in a small environment, every honor to these modern achievements of technology, the Internet and everything else, but in small environments and certainly there is an ad panel that is very much in function, which is very well served and it is in these smaller environments very much in use. And otherwise about tomorrow, I thank you, but we are marking tomorrow the day and anniversary of the death of the first Croatian president who has allowed us to be here and that we can discuss these laws and everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65201	Thank you. As usual, Doctor, with correction, there is also an addition. But this is what we've actually exhausted the debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I suggest that we finish today's work, continue tomorrow as usual at 9.30 p.m. and prepare to be a point that has rapporteurs and has passed committees, that is, point 8, a report on the business of companies of special state interest for 2009. Thank you very much. Have a nice and pleasant evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-09-0.u65202	And 13. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Personal Name, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP first reading. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a law supplementing the law on a personal name is adopted. Please engage, please vote. Score. With 75 votes for and 1 abstention, 25 against the proposed conclusion.
