ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, before you the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on residence, residence of citizens, but not with the final draft of the law, since the government has accepted that the law goes into regular procedure in two readings. I will only say the most important news in this bill and the reasons why it started to change and supplement the law. Namely, a number of other records of state authorities, administration authorities, local self-government bodies, courts and a number of other state institutions are based on the residence law, i.e. on residence records held by the Ministry of the Interior. According to the law, the current residence is now still valid and is defined as the place where the citizen settled with the intention of living in it all the time. In the past, this definition was somewhat broader, and it was prescribed in paragraph 2 that the residence was the place where the citizen settled with the intention of living in it all the time and in which he had a secure residence. And in paragraph 2, it was considered that a citizen has a permanent residence provided that he has a habitable apartment based on ownership, lease, sublet and in another valid legal basis. However, that paragraph 2 and part of paragraph 1 of the Constitutional Court, by its decision of 2000, was abolished, so that only this short, i.e. the constraint definition of residence remained. It is also important to say that the Ministry of the Interior under the current law did not have the opportunity to delete anyone by official record from the registered address of the residence even in cases where it was evident that someone was abused by that institution of residence and that he really did not reside at that address of the residence where he resided. The only option in which it was possible to delete someone was if it was determined that someone had given incorrect or false information when reporting the residence. Because of such definitions of residence and because of such opportunities, the Ministry of the Interior is certainly a residence records conducted by the Ministry of the Interior in one part of the non-compliant with the real situation. I would dare say, first of all, because of the consequences of war and porn. In fact, during the Homeland War and all the time after the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia, there was a lot of migration. We had three types of migration in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and I would say, repeated almost and only as a consequence of war and war. In fact, we had a situation that a part of the Croatian citizens had moved out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and did not check out their residence. We had a situation that we had access to immigration, that citizens of other countries who had Croatian citizenship had moved into the Republic of Croatia and reported their residence even though they might not have consumed all the elements that the real residence meant, did not consume them in terms of permanent and permanent stay at the registered address of the residence. The third type of emigration was internal emigration within the Republic of Croatia when someone moved from one place to another, but neither checked out the residence in the previous place where he had registered residence nor reported it in the place where he was permanently resident. In such situations, the Ministry of Interior, as I said, had no possibility of introducing order into the residence records, but only in the situation if it were found that the citizen was not staying at the address of the registered residence, or that he had moved away, could we file misdemeanors, but these infringements were long, too, they were problematic because these persons were very difficult to find, give them a call, and conduct a regular procedure. As a result, other records were partly incorrect, unreal, unreal, unreal, and the records of the residence were always most talked about before the election, whether they were local elections, whether elections for the Croatian Parliament, or presidential elections, although what I would like to point out was that the census could affect the electoral lists, only the elections for local self-government, because there is a basis for and a passive electoral right of residence in the local self-government units, while the basis for elections for parliament and presidential elections for Croatian citizenship, whether a Croatian citizen has residence in the Republic of Croatia or not, so that these residence records could not in any way affect the orderly lists for the Croatian Parliament and for the presidential elections. However, there is definitely a need for keeping records, and for the Republic of Croatia to function as a legal state in all its segments, to sort out this residence records, since the war has been many years. Many of the reasons for the migrations that the war has produced have fallen off, so I would say the mature time to pass a law like this or similar, or it will be as the Parliament decides, and that this law provides a basis for setting up residence records. I would also say that the international community has shown a significant interest in this residence record and has asked the MUP to make assumptions through the amendments to the law to introduce order into the residence records. A few days before the first round of presidential elections, the OSCE ambassador was also at the meeting in the MUP, asking for an explanation of the credibility of the residence records, i.e. the credibility of the voter lists. I'd say it took a long time, I talked to him that it took me a long time to explain to him all the circumstances that led to these inaccuracies and unbelief and residence records. However, after all the circumstances were explained to the ambassador, the ambassador received a completely different picture of the problem. Unfortunately, it was created before the election, not only of these but also of earlier, that the electoral lists were also haired, that there were many false voters, but I say after explaining why it all came down to it, that perhaps sometimes there was an incorrect interpretation of the data, the ambassador gained a completely different picture of the problem. However, the MUP has drawn up a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on residence because I would say that it is the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and above all all of the institutions of the Croatian state, to have accurate records of the residence so that it is both an accurate and credible basis for the exercise of other rights, obligations arising from it. In short, I'll just say a few important papers that this law introduces. One of the most important, I would say the most important newspaper is that this law introduces the possibility that the MIP, either on official duty or on a proposal or on the initiative of the state bodies and bodies of the local self-government units, could initiate a decommissioning procedure under official duty. Therefore, the Ministry of the Interior would finally be given the opportunity to delete the residence records of the person who would be found not to reside at the registered address of the residence. However, this would not be a mass ad hoc erasure without verification of facts, but it is legally and prescribed that the first Ministry of Interior should, after receiving a notice that someone does not reside at the registered address of residence, i.e. that he is permanently evicted from that address, carry out a field check which should be unequivocally or with a high degree of probability to establish that this person does not reside at the registered address of residence. Following these field checks, administrative proceedings under the General Administrative Procedure Act should be carried out where the presence and participation of the person to be deleted from the residence records should again be ensured, provided that such removal from the residence records is possible without the participation of the person would be carried out only exceptionally in the event that no person, even after multiple attempts, could be found at the address of the registered residence, or could not be provided with the necessary documents at another known address. So I repeat again, there would be no mass ad hoc erasure, but it would be a responsible demanding job, and the police would certainly have to implement it by respecting the Constitution, i.e. the guaranteed human rights of citizens, but also by respecting and respecting the General Administrative Procedure Act, which prescribes the conduct of state bodies in the conduct of the procedure concerning the rights and obligations of citizens. The second news is that citizens who are somewhere in the Republic of Croatia, who have not moved out of the Republic of Croatia, but have moved from the address at which they have registered their residence and have permanently settled elsewhere in another address, but have not met the obligation to make that change and register in the MUP, and in that case, the Ministry of Interior would, by official duty, of course, also after the procedure has been carried out, after determining the facts of the person from the address of the residence that the person has left, in which he is definitely not staying. It is also a newspaper that Croatian citizens who, for certain reasons, need to stay outside the Republic of Croatia for more than a year to record the stay for two reasons. One reason is that Croatia will soon have a commitment to the European acquis to keep such records of its citizens who are longer than a year, who have lived outside the Republic of Croatia for more than a year. And the second reason is to record citizens who, for legitimate, justified reasons, stay outside the Republic of Croatia so as not to delete them in the Republic of Croatia from the home address. These reasons for staying can be different. It can be treatment, education, some other completely life-like reasons which are the real basis and justifiable reason for staying longer than a year outside the Republic of Croatia. Here, I would say 3 of the most important changes in this law, with the main change, i.e. the proposal for change, that the Ministry of the Interior can delete the person from the residence records, but again, thirdly, I repeat, means only after the procedures have been carried out so that it does not happen to be irresponsible, even by some malicious, unfounded, unfounded application of the residence, and thus is denied to Croatian citizens one of the fundamental rights. It is the right to residence and the right to stay where that person chooses. The law is proposed for regular procedure in 2 readings. Just because the law is important, which deals with one of the fundamental human rights and freedoms, it is the right to settle, the right to move, and I believe that even in the debate here in the Assembly, perhaps better solutions, better ideas than those we have proposed in this law, and we are absolutely ready to take care of them and for another reading to correct the law so that it is as good as possible. In order to finally make order in the residence records on one side, they would not violate the fundamental human rights of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48362	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48363	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct a partial inaccuracies from the secretary of state that he found in war and wartime for the causes of this condition. So that's a partially incorrect quote. Since most of his debates have been devoted to the list of voters of data on the voters list, they are just saying that after the war, so far after the war, from 2001 to 2009, the problem has become the most pronounced. Here, I'll read how much time I have for a couple of counties. So, in Split-Dalmatia in 8 years after the war, 2001-2009. 34 thousand new voters, City of Zagreb 27 thousand, Zadar County 27 thousand, Zagrebačka 25 thousand etc. A total of 7 largest counties, 140 thousand new voters after 2001, not after the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48364	Thank you. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, before continuing, there are other suggestions on how to resolve this issue of our lagging behind in the debates on the agenda. There's a suggestion that next week we're doing it for four days, which means we start on Tuesday, and we're doing it a little longer than we've ever done before, which is between six and seven hours. So we could do that, with that in order to have two weeks, so that would actually mean we'd have two weeks after about a break. And there's this proposal to be an extension of 3.4 and 5. Now, I'm asking the clubs to think about it a little bit because we don't want to do anything that wouldn't be, actually, the view doesn't have to be the same, but it's about to respect all these circumstances. So, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, so that would be 23.24, February 25th and 26th and something longer work night than we've done so far. Although we have adopted a practice to go a little early on Fridays, we are still working until 7:00 p.m., but perhaps we should review that matter at least until we get rid of these points of the agenda that have accumulated. Here we go. We're gonna consult on that a little bit more. Let's move on. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48365	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and respected secretary of state. On 28 January, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the law. Not to repeat what the promoter has already said, we welcomed first of all the fact that this extremely important and important law is going to be in the third reading after 1991. What I would just like to point out is that another thing has been welcomed, which is that order needs to be put into question the residence of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. What's also important in the principle debate is that you change, and I have to point out in particular, and that's an art. Paragraph 13b, 13c which are in kind of collapsing with Art. 13b, 13c. One, I don't bother you very much. First of all, he refers to tenants, or people who are not guilty of their own fault, but because the landlord does not want to report our citizen to a particular address, precisely for reasons to avoid normal tax payments. There's a situation that needs to be further regulated in this law. In fact, we are aware of the practice that this moment, or their avoidance, would make it impossible for people to actually register their residence at another address. After that, by blaming the landlord, they're actually losing their chance or the police department can log them out. Here, I considered it appropriate just to point it out from the debate. Everything else is given and written. What is important is that the Committee unanimously concludes that it accepts the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens and that all objections will be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48366	Thank you. Would the representatives of the other committees like to? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48367	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee considered the report as an interested Working Body and explained in the opening statement that regulation of the residence and residence of the population of the Republic of Croatia is necessary for different needs. In accordance with these needs and the observed weaknesses of amendments to the law, the residence is regulated in a new way, and the police administration or the station is empowered to delete from the records of the residence of those citizens, or those persons, who do not undoubtedly live in that address, i.e. those persons who have permanently moved out of the Republic of Croatia or have changed their place of residence within the Republic of Croatia. Under the existing law, the person who left the Republic of Croatia was obliged to sign out. As a direct consequence of the failure to fulfil the obligation to log out, problems with the voter list have arisen, the issuing of public documents under the direction of a particular person by courts and other state bodies etc. The aim of the amendment is to correct these weaknesses, and to better coordinate the residence and residence of citizens with the real situation. The promoter also explained that citizens of the Republic of Croatia report their residence for various reasons at addresses they do not live on among other things and for tax other benefits, as well as certain benefits. Since this law has caused numerous controversy and different interpretations, the proponent has removed doubts about the adverse effects of this law on other acquired rights, as well as any bringing into contact with this law, including pensions, dual citizenship, etc. The debate shows understanding that the government must settle this issue, because it is known that there are actually more voters in Croatia than residents, but there are also many concerns, questions and suggestions. Thus, it is pointed out that the possibility of inequality that the law can cause for those persons of Croatian nationality who were exiled from Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war and who moved to the Republic of Croatia in which they lived for years and in which they acquired real estate. Lately, they have been trying to organise their return to Posavina, Central Bosnia, Banja Luka region and other parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Any threat to the loss of rights stemming from residence in the Republic of Croatia will, above all, deter them from returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, those persons who have permanently evicted from the Republic of Croatia and living in other countries have been excluded from the implementation of this law, and are permanently in the status of the reconstruction programme, permanent care programme or have refugee status. It is said that this leads to a virtual change in the ethnic composition of the population of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to mentioned Croats of exiles from Bosnia and Herzegovina living in the Republic of Croatia, there are still some categories that regulated their status in Croatia. Among them are developed defenders, and the most sensitive group among them are the victims of the Croatian Defence Council, many of whom volunteered to participate in the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia, and many of them have a real estate and registered residence in the Republic of Croatia where they exercise pension rights, pension and health insurance. In particular, those Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in general, outside the Republic of Croatia should be kept in mind or have business in the Republic of Croatia where they live with a part of the family, and also spend part of their time with family, for example. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in other neighbouring countries. Most of them have properties throughout the Republic of Croatia, especially in border areas, and they exercise the right based on their residence in the Republic of Croatia. It has been said that all of this should be seen from the perspective of the upcoming constitutional reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the announced census in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is pointed to the importance of an overall view of the problem, as the rights arising from residence, which are not available for example. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in other neighbouring countries where Croats are a national minority, they can further encourage migration to the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the residence of our people working abroad raised the question of the acceptability of temporary workers, and discussed the status of those of our people living in overseas countries and have family and property parts in the Republic of Croatia. In the final address, among other things, giving answers and clarifications to the representatives, he removed any suspicion that the exiled Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina could come under the influence of this law, now in the status of returnees in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the victims of the HVO, and called for all interested persons to be involved in the second reading of the law and to consider all proposals. He also stressed that the law equally applies to citizens in the Republic of Croatia and that the law will not be implemented by any decree of automation, but individually and in a way that individual proceedings will be carried out for each erasure of residence and each will be allowed in an administrative procedure before the second-degree body of the MUP to challenge the police request. It's final. The position is taken that all possible difficulties relating to certain rights of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in numbers, primarily those from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and connected to the residence, should be resolved in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution, which is in line with the experience of individual European states and the announced strategy of the Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside Croatia. In this regard, the amendments and additions to this law include both aid and social assistance to those affected by the implementation of this law. It is proposed that the remaining ambiguities be resolved until the second reading and building in the final text of the law and that the members of the committee be included in the draft rules to be adopted by the applicant. After the debate was held, the committee decided, with 6 votes for, 2 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens is hereby adopted and a second reading shall also be made. And two, all the comments and proposals tabled in the debate are addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48368	Thank you. Is there anyone else on the board who wants to participate? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48369	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. This matter has been discussed for a long time. I could say that there is an emphasis on the voter lists and the repercussions that this has to do with the vote. And it seems somewhat lost to me in these discussions the contents of this institute, and it seems to me to be more important. Another thing I want to say in this introduction. We agree there's a real mess here and it needs to be rescheduled. And that's where we come from and when we're going or we're going, and now we're going when we're talking about this, and we've talked about it on a few occasions. Now, the groupings that come under attack in a constant way. First, let's do it so I can sort things out differently, but I'm indicating what categories are. First exiles, refugees and displaced. These cases occurred in circumstances where the affected were unable to influence or were largely unaffected. The others were relocated and inhabited. These are cases that the state has legitimately standardized, stimulated, etc. The fourth thing is those who are on temporary work abroad. Their status seems understandable to me and I've been practicing for many years, so we understand what this is all about. And it's the fourth ones to say it in the administrative non-discipline zone because they didn't respect the law and it had to be respected. And they didn't do it to take advantage of miss, sympathy, etc. to get something sewn up. All of these categories in these changes or in these discussions now come under the bat and I think we talk about it or we need to talk about it. Now, why and how this happened. This first category of exiles and refugees I have already said in some way are the victims of the unfavourable circumstances that forced them to move out of their home without a safe place of survival and not to stay at the address of their former home, I think the only surest thing, let's say even to say the natural place of residence. I'm talking about a group, at least we can say that there are individuals who don't belong to this category of emergency. The second category of settlement and migration I already said the state opened up the possibility of such a thing happening and then in practice there was the creation of so-called. a double, hanging, fictitious residence and residence. As for people on temporary work abroad, both they and members of their families generally do not have another domicile address. They're in Croatia, they're coming here, they're coming back. Since they're somewhere else employees aren't unnatural, it's natural that they're gone for more than six months, but they're life situations that we have to keep in mind, so eventually we have to tolerate. As far as this category is concerned, which is already in violation I have said they have exploited the negligence of the system and there is not much to be explained. So, what I said at the beginning is a constant mess that produces damage not only in the vote but also in relation to the costs incurred by the Republic of Croatia's budget, and it simply needs to be fixed. But in solving these issues, I would like to stress that it is necessary to take two things into account with equal attention. First, if anyone really lives in a registered address and if that address is its natural, let me say so, residence and that means house, property, family members, some rights come out of it, they're tied here. It's just that when you look at all the circumstances, he's a part of it. And second, are there any obstacles that make it impossible for man and family to stay permanently at home. This is also important because these circumstances and many obstacles exist now. And I'm stressing this because it's not realistic to expect from a credential check and the fact that it has a sensitivity to take both of these circumstances into account in any case. Even if they're in police clothes, they don't have enough will and they don't have enough time to come up that way anymore. And when deciding whether to delete someone or not, we enter this action is necessary carefully, seriously, fairly and connected to appreciate both of these elements. I'm a little bit repetitive again, or I'm just saying whatever you want a clerk to do. It's too big a bite for him to do it in his civil procedure, even if it's under administrative procedure. And that's what I'm saying because I'm very afraid that by taking down records, we don't get people by breaking their rights or by making discrimination. There is a real danger if we take it out, we leave it to the clerk, I, Mr. Secretary of State, respect this belief that it will not happen that way, I can easily accept it in the debates at this level but in the task that I, as an individual, as a police officer, have to do this persuasion and that belief is very divorceal. It's different when someone has two houses, two apartments, two properties, two interests and two or more states. That's not the kind of thing I need, and I don't want to defend. But the other is when someone is fighting in two or three countries and there's only one place they can't stay or can't survive and that's it, or at least in my story, first of all. I'll talk here if I can say something more detailed about two groups, these who are refugees and people abroad. I could say something about others, but others know better. This first group of refugees countries have officially committed to addressing refugee problems by stimulating return especially through reconstruction measures, housing care, stimulating sustainable return, fostering regional development, employment, repairing the situation at the PPDS, repairing large infrastructure, stimulating agriculture, etc. These are all measures related, complementary, therefore multiple measures. It is clear to me and you that this does not go as necessary and as promised. It's clear to both of you. And if that's not how it works and if we can get a number of reasons why it doesn't work out like that, then that's where we have to look for reasons to discount these people. It is not enough, and it has been said several times in Croatia, it is not enough just a political message, come back, we have nothing against it. That message is important, I respect it, it's not enough. Now it's a real danger that, I repeat once again, in a civil check, and if we don't find someone, then we'll wipe them out. I'll add something else here. Last year, several thousand people were removed from the records, certainly more than a thousand of them from the residence records, and this law is just a matter of discussion. So practice goes one way, let's say in a different direction, in a different logic, whatever you want. What's the problem? When you take someone's place, then you have stripped them of all their potential rights, and if you have stripped them of their potential rights, you have removed him himself. The answer, the rest of the citizenship, so he'll be somewhere else, not enough. It's not enough at all. Because then, quite free to say, then cleaning up the records will turn into permanent cleaning from Croatia, and it's about large numbers. That's what we're afraid of despite what's going to happen. That's what we're afraid of. I don't think any of you are indifferent to that. This issue of workers abroad seems to me that the law says it will prove that it works there, etc. It seems to me that we're entering an area of proof of the common, and in this procedure, people who work somewhere are supporting themselves and their family, helping the state. We'll break up their residence now. I'll figure it out the next way. We're afraid of cleaning up a large number of people without respecting their real position. It will be a shame for both these people and the Republic of Croatia. As far as we're concerned, and because of that fear we agreed, I'm talking about our club, we agreed that in this question, this action goes, but if the practice goes, and I repeat, it's going in a different direction now, we're going to be forced to withdraw our consent. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48370	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Gajica, it is very important to correct your quote and incorrect information. Both according to the Constitution and according to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is the incorrect residence of citizens of the Republic of Croatia to bind to have a house, apartment or residence contract. Even in the light of this law, it is explicitly written. It's already been lifted by the Constitutional Court. If that were the case, Croatia would treat its hips, treat the homeless in a terrible way. It would thus deprive its citizens of the possibility of having any place in Croatia. And according to the provisions of Article 32 of the now applicable Constitution, everyone on the territory of the Republic of Croatia has the right to move freely and to choose a residence. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to leave the territory of the state at any time, to settle permanently or temporarily abroad and to return to the Republic of Croatia at any time. If that's what you suggest, poor mother to the Croatian homeless. They would be left without a place to stay and without a place to stay. If the police can take someone's place, and the citizen is the Republic of Croatia, where will we offer him a new residence, and he has nothing but citizenship? This is the first rank of human rights and let's not play with the first rank of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48372	Thank you. Let's move on to the debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48373	Thank you, Mr. President. From the debates so far, and certainly from the discussions that will follow, we can describe this problem as a big house and not as that house where 50 people can apply but where 50 people can really live. All the discussions that have been so far, Mr Gajica warned, were about something that can actually be said about election geometry and arithmetic, or the impact of residence records, and therefore the list of voters in some elections. But that's part of it and logical, because all the other rights that come out of the residence records don't directly concern those people you live with, or whose fate you take into your own hands by voting where you don't live, and so no one likes to have someone touch his house, to be the boss in a house where he doesn't live. And that is why among the citizens is the biggest problem of those to whom it applies, so those where a large number of people are registered and voting in local elections, and they do not live there, it concerns them directly and therefore is the most cry for that electoral right. In addition, in the light of the reasons for the adoption of this law and in the materials that we have received and from the address of the Secretary of State, most of it was almost based on electoral law. Well, if that's the case, it's logical, Mr. Secretary of State. If it's not Minister Shuker who's worried about you, why would you take care of it so much? Under the current Law of Residence, everyone must have a place of residence. Therefore, if this law is of course passed by the police, someone will delete it from the record, then we will determine the residence according to Article 3 as prescribed. So either at the residence of his spouse or at the residence of his parents or by the place in which he was entered in the birth certificate or registered in the citizen’s book. So everyone will still have a residence that may not again fit the real situation on the ground. But by this law, we can't solve all the anomalies and all the untrue conditions on the ground and what's going on in the residence records. But we should solve what's called a mass phenomenon of bypassing the residence and residence laws. There are several things that have been incorrectly said in the debate so far, not in the Parliament, but before, so in a public debate on this law. So, first of all, no one's gonna lose their citizenship. Therefore, everyone will remain a Croatian citizenship and, based on that nationality, everyone will remain a residence which, of course, is determined in accordance with the law. Also, changes to this law do not have a major impact on national elections. However, people whose residence according to Croatian laws is real where they live will also be relieved to vote in national elections because they will no longer have to travel 20, 50 or 100 km to vote elsewhere, but will be able to vote, of course, where they are. Although it should be said that in the 2007 parliamentary elections in the fifth HDZ electoral unit, he was given the final term for 30 votes and some votes. If he didn't get it, he'd get the SDP. And that was the number of votes that fell for HDZ, for example, at the polling post in Odzak, Bosnia and Herzegovina, where people who have residence in the fifth constituency voted, and quite accidentally found themselves there that day, although the fifth constituency was actually across the river. So 30 and some votes. This has affected the results of the national elections, and certainly one of these voters is one of our colleagues who admitted on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia in fact that he was never at the address where he was registered and he also voted in the fifth constituency. Therefore, it has some influence on national elections, but not as much as it has on local elections. As far as the SDP is concerned, the main objective of these amendments to this law should be to obtain electoral lists that most correspond to the real situation. All those other rights stemming from the residence are not our priority at this time, although of course they are an important issue because Croatia has no money. And the question is, can we actually grumble on someone who's realising some real rights based on incorrect data and, of course, making some kind of income from the state budget that we're all paying together? But that's what I'm saying again. That is, therefore, the government's policy, so let it regulate how state money will be distributed most normally and honestly, and then the opposition will criticise it in that way. We are also aware that many questions so-called. a double residence, because it is not a double residence within the meaning of Croatian law. If someone has a residence under Croatian laws in Vrgorec, and by law, for example, Bosnia and Herzegovina in Tomislavgrad, here is to take the example now, then the only possible solution is an interstate agreement. But we now have to ask the question of what we can do now so that we don't have some grotesque and very strange things that defy the laws of physics, where in fact one place can't fit even toothbrushes of people who are registered there, let alone humans. Here are a few examples of clean, so let me describe the current practice. You all know where the town of Chakovec is. He's in Međimurje County. The 2001 census included 30455 inhabitants. The list of voters lists 23543 inhabitants, which is about, therefore, something that corresponds to the real situation and certainly does not give the police any indication that they are doing more there than in other places. However, the town of Imotski, according to the 10213 population list, of which 7278 older than 18, and on the list of voters, 9839 voters. Thus, a very simple calculation comes to a number of 2,600 people who do not live there or did not live at the time of the census. And that's certainly one indication to the police, that maybe we should check it out first. Another example is the town of Vrgorac. Because of the stronger anti-candidate activity of our former colleague, the story managed to come to the media in a way that even showed a traffic light on the main town square that on the day of the second round of local elections showed how many people actually came to vote and who don't really live there. According to the population list 7593 inhabitants under the age of 18, 1993, which is also a suspicious figure, or something greater than it should actually be, but good. Age-old residents, so 5600 and voters 7144, which is cca 1500 voters more in one place than 5,000 people. It's almost 30%, slightly less than 30%. As for Mr. Brač, there are also more voters on the islands, although the population is probably due to holiday homes. So, people who basically don't live there, and then one spouse reports the residence here and the other in Zagreb. So, as for the town of Vrgorca, so it wouldn't be, so let's go analyze it a little bit more. Because if it can be analyzed in ten minutes, then I don't believe it takes the police nine years to reanalyze it. He's got 20 and some settlements, and it's really nice in settlements to see things about these differences. Nationally known became the place of Dusina because one analysis showed that several dozens or even, I think, are even hundreds of voters. I think the thing is, they weren't home numbers in that place, so they were deployed, so that's why there was this problem. According to the list, 539 residents live there, 539 people are reported, with 540 voters. On the other hand it's about 20, 30 percent more than it should be, but it's not too much of an exaggeration because we have places so... etc., that number is up to 10 percent higher than the number of inhabitants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it would not be that there are no exact examples there so the settlement Uncani 187, 240 actually residents, 187 voters. So there are, of course, places in this city where it works properly, and I'm only afraid that people out there don't insult that none of them want to apply. So it might actually be one local problem, but let's let it go now. In fact, we can say that this institute has actually become a self-service for our citizens who have met the alleged signs by that old man, so that because the state has approached it quite liberally, that I cannot say irresponsibly to achieve a certain legal or at least semi-economy of some kind of benefit, then, on a committee, Mr. Secretary of State set an example so that within the city of Zagreb, people are applying to the locations near the centre to exercise the right to a parking ticket. So you listed it as, like, a bizarre reason, even though it's not a bizarre reason at all. So that's a very understandable reason why it's happening. And now it's not exactly against citizens for using something the state doesn't react to and what happens massively in some parts of Croatia. In fact, politicians from other countries show the minority as the social value and guarantee of the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I repeat, there can be no circumvention of Croatian laws guaranteeing the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because then we colleagues and colleagues here in Croatia have made a good mistake, then we are bad and change it as soon as possible. Because of this law, no one should move from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatia, and therefore we are prone to solutions that would leave social rights to a group of people for a while, but to finally resolve the issue of voter lists in Croatia. In fact, she showed up, except for what Mr. Gajica said, there's another category. So the people who don't live at the address where they're registered, they never live and they'll never live. So it's a classic fictitious residence to achieve some rights. So let's, if we already have a problem with finding these things, about solving these things, then let's set up a system so that it's not a key element for those rights. That of course exceeds the opportunities of the Ministry of the Interior, but I remember from the first grade of high school, so it was a 20 and a few years ago, my teacher from the materials processing technology told us if you mark something to make there, if you mark correctly there's a possibility that you'll do it exactly. If you mark something wrong, then there's no chance you'll do it exactly. Therefore, if our home records are not good, then everything we do on the basis of the residence is giving birth to new injustices in society and is actually showing us up as a country in which there is disorder and what is unjust, which is really not how it should be. The issue of refugees has also been raised. It's quite clear the difference between someone reporting a residence at the address where they've never been, they won't be, they won't live, from someone who's just been knocked down by a house in the war and who simply gets what's been torn down his house can't go back there. Of course, when his house is restored, then, of course, he should enter the category with all the others who actually have the right to choose where he will live and choose where his residence will be. Therefore, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the amendments to this law in the first reading. We therefore call on the applicants to take care of their decisions, which are of course in the final draft of the law, to take care of all the elements given in the debate, so that they take care of human rights, to take care of the fairness and accuracy of the list of voters, to take care of possible prevention of incorrect, untrue and inadequately harmonised conditions in the record of residence and the situation on the ground, and to finally get one law which will show in this area Croatia as a country where order is introduced, in which, of course, citizens do not need to bypass laws, in which citizens, if they are punished by appropriate, not dragon penalties and, of course, in which we will have fair and democratic elections at local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48374	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48375	Your Honor, Mr. President. My dear colleague, you have spoken very highly of me to say tentuously. I'm correcting the assumption that, which you mentioned in your statement, that the city of Uncani had 187 The village, he said the city's sorry, for that too, is a correction. [[Intruder: Village.]] Apparently, the gentleman's representative doesn't even know where the Uncans are, but apparently he's got the information that got him wrong, and he doesn't know the situation in the area at all. It's interesting that this same representative of ours didn't mention that very, quite close to the municipality of the Court, so some other municipalities around which they have a different situation, but it doesn't occur to him to mention it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48376	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48377	Mr. President, Article 209 has been injured. My colleague Grubisic incorrectly corrected me because I was not talking about the city of Uncani, but I was very clear that it was a settlement within the town of Vrgorac. And as for how I don't know, there's a joke walk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48378	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Zastica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's colleague Bauk not exactly to be in town. I'd like to ask you a little silence. It is not true that a colleague of Bauk that in the city of Zagreb are registered and that there are many applications for parking tickets you listed, but the fact is... So please, gentlemen of the SDP, let me speak. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] It's a fact and it's right in the last local elections last year, in May to more precisely in the village of Odranski Strmec, which belongs to the quarter of Brezovic, at the address of the candidate who was on the list from the SDP, there were 35 people reported at his address, so you have to ask yourself what you are doing and whether you are taking care of it at all. Do you from somewhere from other countries or from other counties, because it can't be if 35 have been reported in that polling post, and for 24 votes, the other political option has been lost. It's a fact, and those things are your responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48380	Thank you. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48381	Mr. President, Mrs. Solic has hurt her ankle. 209. The Rules of Procedure for not correcting my allegations but also confirming my allegations that there are places where there are more voters in one place. And that's why, ma'am, that's what I was talking about. You haven't corrected it, you've confirmed all my allegations. And the ones from Bezovica, of course, they kicked you out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48382	To look at this in principle means yes, we do not talk about voters from the party's point of view but generally as the principle of yes. Okay. Let's move on. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48383	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, if you please, colleagues and colleagues. So this law seems to be more in the category of laws of physics than the law of the state. So this law concludes that the same body cannot be in two places at the same time. And since the laws of physics precede all the laws of the state then at the club of the HNS, we feel that, of course, the laws of physics should be respected. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens is a small move, but in our opinion it is important in the business of completing the state. So, in the business of editing one space that was open and it was still open and it was seen from the debates of colleagues on both sides of the bench open to manipulation, the introduction of riots not only in question of elections, although of course the issue of choice is extremely important because falsifying and manipulating the elections raises the legitimacy of selected bodies within the Croatian state. So it's not a small thing, it's a question of course and the use of money not this state, because it has no money but only Croatian taxpayers' money. And deploys money including all social rights, Croatian taxpayers' money. So that's the money the state only manages, and it takes it from the citizens and citizens of this country. In that sense, the question of bringing order into this area, and it is clear from both the comments and from what the secretary of state said was wrong and that this area was subject to manipulation, this law is a step forward and in this sense the HNS club will support it. A series of things have been presented both in the debates and in the opening address of the Secretary of State. I don't think, of course, there's any doubt and no doubt that possession of real estate in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is any factor in determining residence. Real estate, including companies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, can own, at this time, citizens of any EU country and as our citizens can own properties elsewhere, which does not mean that they have or at all have the possibility that if they do not actually reside in the Republic of Croatia, they will also have a place of residence. The debate makes some kind of impression that it's good, this law is going to be passed, but the idea is that we don't follow the law, that I paraphrase an old statesman, that we don't stick to the law as a drunk float. In other words, the law does not apply by decree. The law is the law, and if it is passed, it should be implemented. So now's the time, not to say we'll pass the law, but don't be afraid we won't carry it out, we're going to implement it, we're going to implement it. So all the comments, and therefore it's good to go in 2 readings, all the reserves, all the problems better out now, better discuss now, better see what we can agree on now. So they wouldn't accidentally pass another one of the many laws that don't apply. This law should be implemented and should therefore be clear, unequivocal and have instruments to implement. As far as I'm concerned, I'm only going to say two more things on behalf of the HNS Club, but still at this principle level regarding election issues. Of course, the fake residence, or double residence, cannot be said falsely because so far it has been possible and has not been sanctioned by law, or it has not been controlled, let’s say. The double residence has an important impact on the results of the elections in certain parts of Croatia at local level. It is shown, demonstrated in all ways, but also affecting the parliamentary elections. Because it is quite another matter of voting in the 11th electoral unit, so diaspora, and voting in each of these 10 electoral units that exist in Croatia. Thus, from that point of view, order should be introduced into this area. This law mentions control. And of course the checks and controls should be. They will need to be organised in the same way that judicial inspections are organised. On the one hand, where applications are submitted, and on the other hand, according to an annual plan in areas that are sensitive to them, i.e. during the last 5, 6, 7 years, the number of residents has jumped in a situation where our demographics are therefore the natural growth that they are. However, there is also a provision on the requirement to check out the residence if people leave for more than a year. The procedure here should be careful not to re-regulate control and turn the state into a big brother who will be required to register, report, receive a police permit for each departure from the place of residence. I'm not saying it looks like that in this law right now, but it's just one thing to take care of and make sure there's no re-regulating the residence status. The clear and unequivocal purpose of this law is to disable double residence. And there should be no doubt about it, because the double residence is a lie. Because no one can stay in two places permanently. A double residence is the basis for cheating in elections and a double residence is the basis for obtaining social assistance in a country where you do not pay taxes and do not live, different forms of social benefits. So that sort of thing is kind of one of the final moves in state planning. This does not mean and precisely because in this way it has tried to take care of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have come to this situation. This does not mean that there is no need to worry about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but certainly not in such a way as to deceive Croatian taxpayers, or political Croats, and these are citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of the ethnicities living in the Republic of Croatia. That's not it. Clearly, transparently with something that gives these people the future, which gives them a chance to move within their country of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have political influence where at this point they are brought into the situation that he is asked extremely, that they are majorized in a policy that was bad. Therefore, there is a way and one of the things that Croatia can be without further and in my opinion should be initiator, is a political conference in this part of Europe on the way and future of Bosnia and Herzegovina which can, of course, be only advisory as far as we are concerned, but is certainly part of our responsibility. This is the way we can and need as a political community to help ethnic Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose political community is Bosnia and Herzegovina and should be Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as the possibility of abuse of this law is concerned, as far as I can see in this proposal, there is a right to appeal. So if someone finds that an unwarranted decision has been made to delete from a certain residence, they may complain about it and have the whole procedure. So there's this kind of protection. As for technical development, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are also mentioned on the Committee on the Constitution, and I think it is not bad to warn the Proposer that in some things it would be better to define the implementation of certain decisions more precisely. As an example of the Regulation for the procedure and method of determining the conditions that must be met in order for the police administration or police station to reach solutions on the erasure of persons from the address of the registered residence. It would be a good thing, it was warned, and I'm actually just passing it on to Parliament here, and it would be a good idea to put a deadline into the law for making that rule, as we say on a technical matter, and that is, we can't enforce the law because there are no rules that would not play out this law. So we ask the Proposer to bring it in. And if that doesn't, of course, happen in that sense, we'll also submit an amendment to the second reading on behalf of the HNS Club. So on behalf of the HNS Club, we're going to support this law in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48384	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48385	Thank you, Mr. President. With my regards to Mrs Pusic, who as few people understand and articulate the issue of the importance of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina for saying hello. I want to correct the incorrect allegations when it was said that the decree sought to fool and not enforce the law, when we said that something would not be implemented by decree. I said it on behalf of the board, so I'm experiencing it like you told me to. No, we don't think that when it's said something's not going to be implemented by decree it won't be law enforcement. It's just that there's going to be law enforcement through a certain procedure. And not ad hoc, I don't know how to hunt witches and I don't know how. That's one thing. It's another thing. Care for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be the national concerns of the Croatian state and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and this should be an international issue. Therefore, it is not a matter of cheating, or swindling, but of a total one approach to this very important problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48386	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic's turn on behalf of the HDSSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48387	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDSSB, according to the number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, is said to be a small party. He's got three MPs. However, HDSSB is a party that has a heart, has a soul but can also think. The January 24th HDSSB statement, which has not been published anywhere, says because of a media clear blockade that is understandable in our country, says that the HDZB strongly opposes the proposed changes to the law because it will cause mass emigration of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina which will help Croatian people from the constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to become a national minority in their own country of Bosnia and Herzegovina and then the Croatian state, as my predecessor said, will assist those Croats who will be a national minority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It will be easy to help Croatia, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina when there are hundreds of thousands and not like now about 400,000. So, all the clubs that have come forward so far have said that they will support this bill each from their own aspects, each from their own point of view and everyone, almost everyone, claims that this law is closely tied up with taking up positions for future parliamentary elections. And then this residence law suits someone or some will be deleted, that's right. The conclusion is that the past elections for the president of the Republic have produced one effect that now after 18 years of the existence of the Croatian state and the right to vote and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina should now be done because for the first time in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats have come to their senses. There's something to change. There is a handsome quote from Nobel laureate Ivo Andric, not Lužanski but the Nobel laureate Ivo Andric, who says that long-term slavery and the rusty administration can be so confused and disfigured by the understanding of a nation that common sense and the true judgment of that people, so they bow and weaken to him, to completely twist. Thus, such a disturbed thought can no longer distinguish people from not only good from evil but also from their own benefit from the obvious harm. What is this bill going to cause? Despite the voice of the public, despite I would say the debate that is being held at all levels, which is being conducted in all the points of the Croatian society, here is the bill of law put a little sudden in today's debate. So what are the categories of residences or categories of residence users in the Republic of Croatia? There were 180,000 Croats expelled from Republika Srpska, five thousand Croats returned to Republika Srpska today. From the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we also have exiles who came to the Republic of Croatia, so when everything is summed up, all the counties or, according to the cantons, it is then 187,000 Croats. The victims of the Homeland War, 13.5 thousand of them as members of the Croatian Defence Council or the Croatian Army exercise pension rights in the Republic of Croatia. I say, and as members of the Croatian Army not only of the Croatian Defence Council, and without the Croatian Defence Council there would be no successful "Storm" and freedom of Croatian territory. And all of them and all of ours, therefore, those who study, who are in schools in Croatia, are clear and clear, more than 90% would choose a residence in the Republic of Croatia. These were even conducted by certain polls, and these polls precisely show that more than 90% of respondents are making statements for their residence in the Republic of Croatia. What are the consequences of that? At a time when constitutional changes occur in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when there will be a census in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when people have to log out of the place where they have lived for centuries does not need to think much or not at all, it is quite clear and fully understandable. What are we going to do with this residence law? I think we should also look at the historical context in which this assembly of parliament will enter as, people who have been in it and who have voted something that will make Croats aware of in Bosnia and Herzegovina a national minority. If someone objected that this is not about Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is about Croatia's law. It is true that this is the law of the Republic of Croatia but the consequences of this law are also directly and indirectly related to Croats in the diaspora but therefore also to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are the constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina now but those who had dual citizenship had the right to vote. Is this a bus takeover for the next parliamentary elections. So, I am also in favour of editing voters' lists but is this how we will question the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina? There are other ways. We have an OIB, I.D. Is it possible to handle the list of voters through the OIB, rather than to touch other rights on dual citizenship and residence? So we have an OIB. Why we introduced him. Last year we had such a debate about him, we said he would solve everything and here nobody mentioned the possibility of the OIB using and for these purposes a personal identification number that clearly shows where who lives and where income, profit, where he earns and how much he earns. What's the problem that you would then give to the Ministry of the Interior like in Sula's day a neighbor or as someone said next door, report you not being here, it's suspicious that you've gone somewhere, and then the police are checking in, you're here, you're not here. So that procedure costs, and that administrative procedure stands. Well, he's not free, he's not just like that. Now we're gonna take cars to some villages and see if anyone's there or not. You know, I'm a bit of a cartoon, so don't take my word for it like this, but it kind of turns out. In addition, is this bill in some way discriminatory according to ethnic principles? Is there anyone left out here, so privileged, more equal, and others aren't? There must be no discrimination against anyone in this Croatian country. To no one. Well, then the law has to apply to anyone or anyone. They can't be more equal than each other. We returned to some old times 20 years ago when some were more equal in this country. So the personal identification number, to return to it, can be used to make it easier to exercise the rights, be from health care and other and avoid unnecessary torturers of bureaucracy, but also to ensure that citizens fulfil their obligations as e.g. Paying taxes. There's a series of quotes and debates that were being held. I said in the beginning that the HDSSB remained opposed to this bill, asking for a co-operation and a postponement, seeking an agreement on a broader platform. Because even in the Republic of Croatia, as someone here said, there are places where 29, 50 are already reported, but interestingly, it is very trendy to quote as Mr. Bauk said some places, and let him keep quiet. It silences places like Grazac, like the Iron, like the Soldiers, etc. where the same things happen on some other basis and, in fact, indirectly, indirectly shows what I was talking about, one discriminatory relationship, and it shouldn't be, especially not from the SDP that advocates abolishing discrimination on all grounds. You see, at a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, someone noticed that 29 people were registered in one address. Representative Memedi immediately reminded that 29 Roma families were reported at one address, but he threatened to delete the Roma. And I agree that we do not delete them and thank God the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia are with residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia, I do not know it now, but you see one being erased, one being not deleted. We have the case, the case is listed here and the case of the former justice minister who has residences in Velika Gorica, and the place of residence in Zagreb and is running for...... Ex-ex, that's right, ex-ex. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, he's running for mayor of Velika Gorica, and we all know he lives in Zagreb. No one mentions it, no one's wrong, it's all right, no problem. So what do we do now? The HDSSB is asking either for this law to be well done with consultation, a broad consultation of all interested in and well-intentioned and in good faith to understand the consequences of this law by hundreds of thousands of people who will certainly lose their rights and rights and to realize that this law is closely related to constitutional changes cannot be said to be related to constitutional changes, but it is related to how it is seen from all debates so far, is closely linked to the success and desire to succeed in parliamentary elections. Because of these desires and ambitions, we should not question the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I expect this bill to be in the second reading with a lot of, a lot of newspapers going that way. For this bill in first-reading HDSSB will not and cannot be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48388	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 11.04 p.m., it's past ten minutes' notice. We have two corrections. First is Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48389	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Grubisic repeated several times, I know he doesn't think so, but for the sake of the public, said the Croats will be, Croatians are a national minority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Croats, my dear friend, were not, there will be no national minority, they are the sovereign people in Bosnia and Herzegovina no matter what laws were passed. And my correction was in this direction not to say it in the Croatian Parliament, as the People's proverb said, in the mountain of evil, not to speak, not in the Croatian Parliament of such coin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48390	Thank you. We also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48391	Thank you, Mr. President. Pursuant to Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure, an incorrect assumption shall be corrected. What I said is my opinion, my thinking, and it's not supposed to be. Therefore, Mr Vukic abused the correction of the incorrect assumption that there was something I said, which I was thinking about, and not what I stated as a fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48392	I don't know if, I have to admit, I didn't listen very carefully, but if you mentioned Croats as a national minority, I don't know, in that sense they're not a national minority but they are... Okay, I'm not okay, so I apologize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And we have one correction from Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48393	So says a colleague to take this law i.e. The organisation of the residence endangers the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is absolutely incorrect. Because this law and past laws, and even all the laws in all the countries of the world, can only be one residence. Thus, the fictitious and false residence does not guarantee the existence of either lies or frauds of anyone's existence, nor Croats in Croatia, nor any nation or minority in Croatia or outside Croatia. It is provided by the Constitution and by law by means of one aid, I repeat to the transparency of what we are under the Constitution and by law, not by false reporting, or by false residences.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48394	Yes, here we could say that this is a correction of opinion precisely, because the facts have to say which fact is misrepresented. Mr. Loser, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, too, so please be within it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48395	Thank you, Mr. President, most of the time you said what I was going to say. Namely, counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinovic is talking about a false application, and I haven't talked about it at all. I wasn't talking about a fictitious residence. I even mentioned that I am against such things and abuse in the list of voters. But that's no reason to pass a law like this that will produce the consequences I've been talking about. So, I agree with you about thus disabling a fictitious residence, disabling false reporting. But the facts stemming from this law need to be deeply and far-reaching to see what they will lead to in other rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48396	Thank you. We come back to a place where if someone incorrectly pleads or tries to correct the incorrect allegations, and they haven't corrected the incorrect allegations, then we're going to do it again with a breach of the Rules of Procedure and there's no end to it. Whoever we are here, I can't measure on a pharmacy scale. It's correct to say, please, at least keep it in shape. Let's say I'm correcting that and that quote, and then say what you have to say. But if you don't say it, but you're starting to say it in general, then it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a replica. Right? It's not even a correction to an incorrect quote, but at least some form has been preserved. I'm asking you to spend time on these, if we can do this, these kind of corrections and then the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. It's the HDZ Club and Mrs. Ana Loreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48397	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens as amendments to laws that actually provide and establish institutes that allow the implementation of the already existing law and I would say introduce order in its implementation. In fact, the matter of residence and residence issues was regulated by the Law on residence and residence back in 1991. The law has seen changes, but based on constitutional decisions. Because the two decisions of the Constitutional Court have abolished some of the provisions of that law as well as the rules of the Minister of Interior which discusses the provisions of the law. The Constitutional Court's decisions went in the direction of repealing those provisions which impose conditions on citizens to apply for residence as a condition, proof of permanent residence and permanent employment, i.e. employment, as conditions for the application of residence. The Constitutional Court has warned this of breach of the constitutional provisions laid down in Article 32. The Constitution on freedom of movement and choice of residence. And those provisions have been deleted. However, it remains to sort out the open question of how and based on what the competent authority will at all determine that someone has settled, settled or intended to live here and live because the intention is a psychologically-willed category, and then the question is how to prove it and what it is. But for now, we don't doubt you, and we can't comment on the Constitutional Court decisions. Therefore, the existing law defines the concept of residence and residence, the application and check-in procedure of the authority responsible for carrying out the records, the criminal provision in the event of non-compliance with the prescribed binding standards is prescribed. It's about one seemingly short and small law of only twenty members. However, this and such legislation have drawn attention to the public, many polemics, clumsy interpretations of the amendments and addition of the new law on how the terrible consequences for Croatian citizens will cause this law. And it's like I said about the amendments and additions to the existing law that this matter is already almost entirely solved, and these amendments and additions are proposed towards the insurance of mechanisms and institutes and procedures so that they can be implemented. Public reactions certainly also cause misunderstandings, i.e. misreading that some social issues would depend, i.e. that certain social categories of citizens depend on this law. But the law does not need to be read superficially and quickly. The law must be read by supplementing it with other legislation as a whole and legal regulation, the Constitution, international regulations and all other laws applicable at the level of the Republic of Croatia. And it will certainly be seen then that this, these social categories, this social space is not threatened by the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements. At the same time, we've all witnessed the situation that for 19 years since this law was passed, his provisions have not been complied with, although they are cognitive norms with impediments. If we were to review the application of the residence at this time, and that the residence or changes in the address and we're not talking about our citizens, I daren't even say what kind of procedure would be for those who would have neat documents, or for those who would be in some kind of violation. It's mostly out of care or, as counterpart Gajica says, it's administrative indiscipline. But which is also not important, because such administrative non-discipline makes it difficult for the state to work because a number of measures in the country, if you want schooling, health care plans, etc., very general things, are actually estimated according to the number of people in a given area, and what is then certainly this, is based on the residence and founding. But the second is a whole series of cases of abuse of these rights. It is generally known that people falsely register on islands and coasts, in cottages to avoid paying taxes on holiday homes. It is generally known to be registered in areas of special state concern for the return of taxes, in areas of cities that have no tax in order to avoid paying taxes, taxes, etc., etc. And there comes a stalemate, because the checkout can't be carried out without the request of a party that just makes abuse, so it doesn't occur to her to log out, and proving false data or any criminal liability for fraud is difficult or criminally difficult and long-term. I wouldn't always agree at all that it's impossible, it's partly impossible because many people aren't in the area of the state and they don't know where they are, so they can't be traced, but with these abuses, maybe they could try to do something about false reporting. Furthermore, understatement of the existing law has also led to this, as we have heard more than once today, that we have more people with voting rights, so more voters in the list of voters than residents in Croatia, so it would be said that we are practically without minors. But since we all know it's absurd and it's not like that, then this question really needs to be settled. We heard it from a colleague named Bauk, he was talking about his constituency apparently. We have heard that in the areas of some municipalities or parts of the municipalities of Uncani, Vrgorac, Imotski has far more voters than the inhabitants, it is true, but objectivity works here to say from the area of my electoral unit and beyond, for example in Gračac, Benkovec, Obrovec, Court of the Union, Slunj, Vojnić, Krnjak has far more registered voters than in the census. We have cases where long ago houses were sold to both APN and more long ago those people are gone, but they're neatly listed. Therefore, this should be resolved in the territory of all Croatia. We have heard that this fact of the list of voters who do not correspond to the real state affects the elections, some more, some less, the presidents at all, that because it does not matter which election unit anyone will vote in, where they will be listed in the list of voters. Locally, elections for urban districts and local committees are affected by even if someone has not changed their address within the same place of residence. Namely, what is the body of the state administration that manages the lists of voters can delete a person according to the current law, solely on the basis of confirmation by the Ministry of Interior on residence. Article 6 of the applicable law states that citizens are required to report and log out their residence, residence, change of home address. The law therefore provides that this procedure can be done and implemented exclusively on the basis of the request of a person seeking a change of residence. However, unless requested in any way, the condition in the residence records cannot be changed. Many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have permanently left the country, settled outside the Republic of Croatia, and have never checked out their residence, either on purpose, or out of care, have gone away and it is an obvious fact, but there is a stalemate because the authorising officer for the removal or check-out is the only person who has not done so. Therefore, the current law does not know the possibility of checking out or eradicating under official duty or at the proposal of the body of the state administration or the unit of local self-government. This is precisely the kind of change being resolved, and this is good, so it is proposed that the police administration or police station, at the request of the authority of the state administration or local self-government unit, may decide to delete the person from the address of the registered residence, if it clearly determines that the person has permanently moved out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this proposal also provides for a procedure to protect the rights of citizens, hence the right to appeal, the deadlines for the conduct of the body of the state administration, but provides for exceptions when it is not implemented, which states those who are in the return programme, the care of exiles and refugees, displaced persons, the reconstruction programme, the housing programme, and since it is the first reading although one of the points of view is being spoken in this article, and how it will be determined whether someone in the return programme is a confirmation of the body, the competent authority of the state administration that cares about the return, but I warn that perhaps until the second reading in this section should be somewhat clearer to promote the legal norm. It also provides for the possibility of a decision to withdraw under official duty under the proposal of the Authority of the State Administration and on the proposal of the unit of local self-government, also with all possible investment options of the complaint and the implementation of the procedure. It is also good that these amendments to the law stipulate that the change of residence, i.e. that the residence must be reported if the person is temporarily staying for more than 3 months, and somehow it was now, as it is in the current law, namely that when they leave for vacation, people should not have to report their place of residence in the place of use of the annual vacation. For three months, it has indeed been one deadline for someone to stay in a job for a little while longer. There are also criminal provisions arranged, and here I hope that then and when we pass the law that has... norm that we will actually apply it, and that we will sanction those who do not comply with this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'd still like to warn you about are the criteria for a residence application. This proposal amended paragraph 1 of Article 13, so it says that the police department or police station will refuse to apply for a residence application if the applicant does not attach documents to prove that he intends to report the residence to settle with the intention to live in it permanently. So, I warn that, as it is about documents that prove something, and how do we know that, by constitutional decision, a provision has been abolished that said that it must prove that permanent housing or employment is possible, the question is what will be sought as evidence? So perhaps in the law, the law could, however, say with one instructional norm or, for example, what it would be that would in some way confirm the public’s intention to live in some place permanently. Well, as we have some experience in EU countries, it seems to me that there is one in the Austrian law, I am telling the legislator that he may be a little consulting the already existing solutions in Europe. So here I see that I am running out of time, at the end of the HDZ Club, will support the adoption of this law because these amendments are actually introducing order into this regulatory area and also introducing mechanisms and institutes that allow the implementation of existing legal provisions and those new ones that have been adopted with this amendment and supplementation proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48398	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48399	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens and before the debate itself here at the plenary session of the Parliament has caused much controversy in the Croatian public. The main intention of the law is to introduce order into the electoral lists, introduce order into an area where there have been many abuses. We ourselves are aware that there are more voters in the elections themselves, or voters than the Republic of Croatia has. Most citizens will agree that it is unfair for some citizens to have registered two addresses of residence in different countries by using benefits on both sides and also bypassing the obligations that all other citizens have. We at the HSS Club welcome the introduction of order in this area, but also since this is a very sensitive issue that can open a number of new problems we are pleased that an agreement has been reached to carry out the debate on the law under regular procedure without emergency procedures after the analysis, examination and harmonisation of any observations and proposals made. The regulation of the issue of residence and residence has been governed by the 1991 Law on the residence and residence of citizens, which has so far registered several amendments. The applicable law has noticeable shortcomings. Thus, it does not allow the check-out of the residence without the personal request of the person for the check-out, and it is often not possible to sanction the offenders because they are located in an unknown address because they do not comply with the intended obligation to report a change of residence. Due to the shortcomings said, it is often true that persons who do not live at the registered address have documents relating to that address and then exercise certain social and material rights arising from the residence. Subject changes and additions to the Law on residence and residence shall introduce clearer and more precise definitions of residence and residence with a view to better harmonising with the real situation on the ground. The residence is defined as the place where the citizen intends to live constantly and in which he lives, and the residence is the place where the citizen stays more permanently, but without the intention of permanent settlement. However, there is no definition of how it will be established that someone is actually living in a registered address or how this will be proven and will, on the basis of their official duty, access to the removal from the residence records. Also, no documents are listed to be required to make a residence application, and it is doubtful which documents will be presented by an unemployed person who is not owned by an apartment or an landlord is not willing to register at his address, and the person has decided to settle in that place constantly. It is therefore important to prescribe by law what documents prove the intention of permanent life in a place because otherwise, it will leave a great possibility for the police administration or the station to refuse the application of the residence at its discretion, i.e. by means of an assessment. With this law, Art. Article 7(3) is amended as follows: The existing law granting powers to the competent police authority or station to, under official duty, at the request of the authority of the State Administration or the local self-government unit, adopt a decision to delete the person from the address of the registered residence if, on the basis of all facts and circumstances, it clearly determines that the person has permanently moved out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This provision is not further discussed in the law but is left to the Minister to prescribe the procedure and way of determining the conditions that must be met in order for the police administration or the station to reach a solution to delete the person from the address of the registered residence. Such an unedited provision can cause a number of dilemmas and problems in practice because eradicating persons from the home address without her knowledge entails a seduction of a series of rights both material and social. So this area must, in our opinion, be defined by a legal act. Paragraph 4 of the same Article. 7 also raises a number of questions as this article provides an opportunity to appeal to the second-degree body of the Ministry of the Interior for a solution to delete from the address of the registered residence. However, it is not clear how the deleted person from the registered address will be informed of the erasure and will not be familiar with the possibility of making a complaint to the second-degree body. Therefore, it is necessary to define the procedures more precisely and to elaborate on provisions on the obligations and rights of citizens in order to avoid possible numerous injustices and abuses. And finally, we at the HSS Club agree that this issue should be resolved in the interests of all citizens because positive discrimination between a certain part of the citizens in this case separates the Croatian Corps, creates certain mistrust and dissatisfaction among people. We believe that its adoption, after a detailed procedure of the prescribed procedures and detailed provisions, will create conditions for the settlement of the electoral lists, and the social and material rights that have been used, I dare say, it may well be necessary to resolve some other legal act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48400	Thank you very much, colleague Klemenic. We've exhausted the club applications, we're moving on to an individual debate. First, a distinguished colleague, Dragutin Lesar, checked in. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd say finally! It is finally understood that the regularity of the election process in Croatia is beginning to be determined by this law after the Constitution, of course. Why do I say it at last? First, I would like to remind you that in the previous term of the Parliament, the debate was concluded, but never a similar bill was put to the vote. He simply disappeared from procedures and voting without ever being officially explained why he was not put to the vote. And after six months of passing he became a nonexistent, a bill of law on a new... Very interesting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At that time, the reasons for the secret withdrawal from the vote of the law were some of the others that are now listed. Lists of voters are derivatives from population registers, i.e. residences from citizenship records. So the list of voters is not the original document, but it is created by joining two other state records. In Croatia, voting rights are acquired by automation at the time of the acquisition of citizenship, so is our Constitution. The election units when they were preparing for the Croatian Parliament were based on the number of voters, the numbers of voters towards the residence but I note that the existing Law on Election Units for the selection of MPs in the Assembly is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Because the constitution states that the number of voters in one constituency compared to another cannot stand down by more than or minus 5%. And we have constituencies in which the number of voters deviates from the average or from others even to 18%. It is interesting that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia requests an assessment of the constitutionality of that law on the table or in drawers for more than a year and that it is not apparent. And precisely because of the composition and number of voters per election unit, this law is crucial for the change or regularity of the electoral system in the Republic of Croatia. The government is now proposing cleaning up residences as a prerequisite for cleaning out voters' lists. Great. I repeat, finally. I only deeply hope that this bill, after the debate is concluded, will not disappear from the procedure and will never be voted again as in the previous term but in what has turned into a debate on a law on residence that has a significant impact on the regularity of the electoral process. The debate turned out to be about the social rights of Croatian citizens who do not live in Croatia. Why? For the sake of concern for Croats outside Croatia, social care for Croats outside Croatia. But I also know that the Constitutional Committee said that the Croatian state must take care of Croats outside Croatia. But the Constitution does not say that Croatia in the social sense about Croats outside Croatia must lead through the residence in a way that allows for the false registration of residences in Croatia. And for years, I have been saying that fake residences and the application of fake residences of Croatian citizens are not primarily due to electoral rights but social rights. Health insurance on the burden of the state budget, maternity benefits, children's allowance, social assistance, disability allowances, and even pensions can be achieved by applying forcible residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to those who have Croatian citizenship. Is that why all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are equal in front of the law and the Constitution? No, they're not. Because if someone on the basis of a fictitious false application of residence in Croatia is exercising social rights that can't be achieved by citizens who really live in Croatia, then it's discrimination. Those living in Croatia are citizens, they cannot exercise those same rights because, for example, the possession of agricultural land, family houses or cars or some other property is an obstacle to them to achieve individual social rights. Those with fictitious addresses in Croatia do not nominally possess any property and automatically exercise rights, not only to exercise rights, but where property censorship is, the basis for calculating these rights is to exercise maximum rights. Citizens living in Croatia pay taxes and contributions and do not exercise those social rights. Citizens who actually live abroad have false residences in Croatia on the burden of these same rights. The care of Croats outside the country is obligations under the Constitution and it is realised by the bilateral contract of Croatia and these countries. And if the Croatian government and parliament decide that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina must receive some social character rights, then it will be an addendum to the birth benefits that births make in Bosnia with a supplement from Croatia, with an addition to... or anything else. But it can no longer be tolerated that because of the abuse of social rights on the burden of taxpayers living in Croatia, false residences, false addresses are tolerated, and as a result, the possibility of manipulation with electoral law. Therefore, I believe that this problem for Croats should be addressed by bilateral agreements with other countries, not by residence. They say that this is why Croats will move from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So is it possible that it is such huge social rights that they would leave their centuries-old hearth in Bosnia and Herzegovina, only because of these social rights? I simply cannot believe it, especially if we are to sign a bilateral agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina and regulate these social rights as we have already resolved some of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia living in Bosnia and Herzegovina with one agreement when it comes to pension rights. I remind you that we already have such a case in order to exercise these rights under this agreement is not necessarily a residence in Croatia, and everything is legal and clean and no one has moved from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatia for this reason. However, this law again provides for exceptions. He says except for those who are in the programme of returning to the care of exiles, refugees and displaced persons. So good people how many years or decades after the war we'll have return programs. Because these exceptions and those to which the state built houses, they sold and went back to living in Serbia or Republika Srpska and kept their residence in Croatia. What kind of program is that, how many of these people, where, in which countries do these people live and have a place both there and here? Are they in Croatia, in Croatia alone, material rights or in countries where they also have residence? These exceptions also introduce the possibility of new abuses and I don't care what nationality they belong to.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48402	Thank you very much. We have one rectification of the quote and two replicas. First of all, the correction of the quote by the esteemed colleague Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, in the second part of the debate, my colleague Lesar corrected the first part that I was going to correct, so I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48404	Thank you very much. An esteemed colleague, Daniel Srb, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48405	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Lesar said in his statement that the whole debate on the bill has turned into a debate on social rights used by Croatian citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, it's obvious that through this debate, there's something wrong with it, and the question is actually what's wrong. So it is obvious that the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina are not satisfied not only with their position in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the one hand but are not satisfied with the fact that Croatia does not have an adequate system of assistance for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would also make them in that area for people who are not even in a position to think about leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia can also benefit significantly from the fact that in Bosnia and Herzegovina certain Croatian companies can operate in a different way, and that certain Croatian companies can also strengthen the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as through their own economic breakthroughs, transfer or develop certain economic activities that are not profitable in Croatia and would then be profitable, would enable these people to have employment, better quality and better life, and would satisfy Croatia itself and their economic interests through such a way. Unfortunately, the state does not have one such strategy as a whole, and that is one of the reasons why Bosnia and Herzegovina itself does not exist among Croats and in relation to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48406	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48407	Comrade Serbs, I will try to prove to you that even under current regulations all Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not in the same position. I got this e-mail this morning. The Croatian citizen has a residence in Zagreb, she had a place in Zagreb and Sarajevo and was invited to the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, they suspended her right to health insurance on the burden of the Croatian budget because she has an apartment in Sarajevo and is registered there. It was reported there, and all it says is that she's doing a free show in a city transport in Sarajevo. In order to exercise the right to health insurance in Zagreb, only one residence had to be checked out in Sarajevo. Asked why and how they told her that they had received data from the police, that she had no right to health insurance in Croatia because she had residence in Sarajevo, that she had to check out in PIO and PIO was a pension-inhabited insurance in Sarajevo, and in order to regain her right to health insurance in Croatia as a Croatian citizen with the only residence in Zagreb, comparing when she asked why others have said you are not in the pension system of Croatia, you do not receive Croatian but Bosnian pension. So you have no right to two dwellings. But if a citizen of the Republic of Croatia has a registered residence in Croatia and Croatia and receives a Croatian pension or is in the pension insurance system of Croatia will not be deleted and is not deleted outside, is that equality before the law. A Croatian citizen registered in Zagreb, a pension from Bosnia and Herzegovina and was deleted in Zagreb, and her health insurance was abolished just because she played fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48408	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48409	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, I absolutely agree with your debate that unfortunately a very often double residence is used for the sake of social rights. I will also say that by analysing the voter lists because there are more registered lists in Croatia than there are in Croatia in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the fact is that people who are potential users of such rights around 600,000. We de facto are fortunate that the other 500 thousand people have not filed any demands, etc. And they would have the right to exercise social rights, extras for children and other things. So, in some ways, the vast majority of these people are not using those rights. And what the confusion of the government and my opinion is that the Republic of Croatia loses tens of millions of kuna annually because some people are unjustly using social rights on the one hand and on the other, it says in favour of the fact that last year we had a case of one of the vice presidents of the House in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, who over the past few years has received an unfounded pension, given that he was employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina on responsible duties. So, the man took 600 thousand kuna from the Croatian budget, and he had no right to do so. I'm asking you, let's say such pensions are in the HVO or Bosnia 13 grand. I'm not saying, the vast majority of people don't work on the other side and don't abuse that right like that gentleman did, but out of those 13,000 pensions, there's probably more people who are employed, who wouldn't have the right to make a pension. What has not been systematically resolved between Croatia and other countries and I agree that there is no matter if it is Serbia, whether it is some other countries, and there are illegal things and abuses...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48410	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48411	But what we should do is make systematic records with these countries that the Croatian budget does not lose tens of millions of kunas each year where it should not lose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48412	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48413	There is another problem that this law, the bill of law, does not solve either, may not be the subject of this law, but the government must solve it. For example, Croatian citizens who have residence or under the new law will have a temporary residence abroad and die there and be buried. There are no family members in Croatia who would come with German, Swedish or Australian documents and prove that a man is deceased and therefore must be deleted from the book of residence, residence, even in that register of citizenship, active and passive. Because we have active citizens, they're alive, and passive are dead citizens. Such people remain enrolled in all our documents because the Croatian state has no idea that they are no longer alive, and the authorities of other countries do not provide documents on this to our diplomatic and consular offices. And that's why on the lists of citizens without residence in Croatia we have a terrible lot of dead souls. So it would be good for the secretary of state to answer the question of how that part of the problem is solved. And as for the proposal of Article 13a, paragraph 13, b, and c that you have offered, I accept them, but for the second reading only one sentence. The police must listen to the citizens they intend to wipe out before the final erasure. To listen, to ask for an indication, anything, if available to Croatian authorities. At that time, they would avoid possible abuses of automatic erasure of residence, and that the citizen, the citizen, no one asked anything. Only one sentence is added in Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48414	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary, Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48415	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's a good thing that Mr. Lesar asked this question, so it's a good opportunity for me to give just a few clarifications. In fact, there have been some discussions more perhaps in the public than in the Parliament today talking about that if this were something I would say organized manipulation that the MUP manipulates records, that it produces some powerful, maybe even electoral fraud, manipulation. But what Mr. Lesar said, I think it's also very important to point out. Namely, the MUP can record the facts he knows. The MAP cannot record those data and facts that are unknown to him. And I'm sure it can always happen that we have what's called the so-called. Dead voters on the voters list. If the deceased's family doesn't report that fact to the MAP, they can't record it, and that person will be on the residence records and on the voters' list until someone reports it, until someone reports that fact of death. We saw when we compared the residence records to the voters' lists within a month when we controlled and compared the deaths of some 1500 people in the Republic of Croatia. It's only a matter of whether or not the family will report that fact until the day of the vote. For these 1,500 people, the families have reported it. In other cases, we don't know if all the facts of death have been reported, whether they've all been recorded and whether someone has not voted instead of some person whose death has not been reported. The same thing Mr Bauk said at the beginning of the debate and compared data from the Split-Dalmatia County on the list of voters, i.e. the increase or reduction. I'm going to tell you that it's very difficult to compare data from the census, residence records and voters' lists because often those data have confused me, too. But what Mr. Bauk said was that there was an increase in the number of people on the voters list, I think he said two counties, Split-Dalmatia and one more. I will only say that it is the same in that period from 2000 to 2009 when we compared that data to the number of minors, now I'm telling you about the data from the residence records, the number of minors in the Republic of Croatia has decreased by 123 thousand. A part of those people when they became minors may have gone abroad, may have gone abroad as a minor, but most of these individuals of 123,000 who in 2000 were minors in the meantime, became minors. And that figure also increased and that number of people who became adults increased the number of people on the voters list. They're on the voters list. ... Croatian old man. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Croatia's old because of this definitely, we have a reduction in the population of minors, but we have an increase in the number of voters because of the Croatian demographic age. What was the same thing about not having accurate records, if they're back producing some basics for manipulation. I will tell you, for example, the soul of the Lower and the Upper and the Vignan of the Upper and the Lower which you have mentioned. I was also interested in Vinjani Donji and Gornji. The problem is that units of local self-government, and that is the same answer to Mr. Lesar, which sometimes, apart from citizens and local self-government units, does not do their job. In the case of Vinjana Gornji and Donji, the problem was that the town of Imotski did not assign home numbers to all houses in the settlements of Vinjana Gornji and Donji, i.e. there were cases where citizens did not even want to raise them. The Geodetic Authority has assigned a home number, however, the citizens have not raised and have not registered with the new address in the police administration to register their residence. So we had a really strange situation, that 3200 and I don't know how many people from Vinjana Donji were reported on 4 but the statistical number that set the State Election Commission, since there were no streets in Vinjana Donji, no home numbers. So all of Vinjana Donja was divided into 4 parts, so that in each part there would be an equal number of voters, about 700, 800 voters, which otherwise corresponds to the number of voters in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. So then we had what probably confused you and confused me until I realized we were at the address, but it was a statistical address for the needs of the polling station at Vinjani Donji 901 was reported 800 and I don't know how many people. But it wasn't one house Vinjani Donji 901, but it was a statistical place that the State Election Commission designated as the entire polling post since there were neither streets nor numbers. We also talk a lot about these rural areas about the Vinjans, about Dusina. But now I'm going to tell you the same thing where you can see that local self-government doesn't carry out its obligations, and there were no war migrations, there weren't all those consequences of war. In fact, the town of Hvar was without street and home numbers until about a month ago. And the town of Hvar with 4,000 and I don't know how many residents were held in the elections as Hvar bb, because local self-government didn't determine street names and home numbers. There are certain reasons. And now we've been checking that information. On January 15th, the town of Hvar gave numbered street markings. There, too, in the elections, the entire town of Hvar with 4000 and I don't know how many inhabitants led as Hvar bb or Hvar 999. The same situation as with the Vinjans Donji who were divided into 4 parts and then it seemed to people that there are 900 voters in one home address, which is not true, it is not true, it is not a fact. So I would like to warn you that there are really many circumstances that the Ministry of the Interior cannot influence. There are a lot of facts that the MUP can record only if the person responsible for these facts informs him, whether local self-government, whether the family of the deceased, or any other factors that have to report it. That's why I say the same thing about residence records. However, be assured that many times the records of the residence are not arranged not because there is no desire, which is not the will, which someone wants to manipulate with that data, but also because many times citizens and units of local self-government or other bodies do not carry out their obligation, do not report to the MUP and the facts, and finally I would tell us the impossible mission to say that at any time we will have a 100% accurate residence record. What you also said I said on the board did. It is also the fact that in Zagreb people started to report home addresses in those areas where the parking zone was expanded so that they could get an annual or monthly ticket. That's the same reason people started reporting. There are a number of reasons why people falsely report, or falsely report residence records. And as long as there are such reasons, I'm afraid we'll never have the exact residence records. But of course, this law will try to get us into a situation where that record is as much in line with the real situation as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48416	Thank you very much. We've got one report of correction of the quote, dear colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48417	With most of the debate, Mr. Secretary of State's exposure is absolutely in agreement. I would correct two allegations that I think are actually the result of a misunderstanding, because it didn't explain exactly what I was talking about. So, first of all, as far as increasing the number of voters that I am in the first correction to your exposure, this is about increasing the number of voters, not compared to the number of residents. From 2001 to 2009. It is very logical for a number of minors to become minors in the meantime, but it would also be illogical that a number of older people or people simply to whom such a life coincided did not die during that period. And the fact that minors have much less than before. So there should be a reduction in the number of voters according to that logic. Another false assumption is that I didn't trouble with the addresses. I've just fenced myself from the fact that just because there are no home numbers that there are so many people in one address, it's not a dispute. Because if it were a dispute, I'd be the first to find out to be convinced, not hackers. And secondly, simply sum up these people in the settlements gives more than the residents, so that's what I was talking about, not specific addresses. I support what you said about the need to fix this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48418	Thank you very much. Next is the debate, and a distinguished colleague, Nenad Stazic, has applied. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48419	The intentions of this law are certainly good and necessary. It's a worse performance. First, the Constitution in Article 32(1) uses the term residence. We do not have a residence in the Constitution, so it is unclear why this constitutional category is not used in this law. Why do we not use the term permanent residence, permanent residence, and temporary residence? In Article 2, an error arises where it is interpreted as being the same. The residence is a place the citizen has reported as his residence. It's a logical mistake to go per go circulatory definition, about as if someone wanted to define carrots, so said carrots it's a plant we call carrots. If you're already using the term residence, if that's what you've decided to do, then that definition needs to be better done than how it's done, because then it's not really clear what you mean. It must be yunus proximum differentia specific so it is quite clear what it refers to. It is also unclear how to prove or determine that someone in a residence or an address actually lives. You see, someone can have a holiday house at sea, an apartment in Zagreb, half a year lives, really lives in Zagreb, half a year lives at sea again at that other address. When are you gonna check on him? If you check it in the winter months at sea, you'll find it's not there. If you check it in the summer months in Zagreb, you will find it is not there. So what does it mean to live all the time? That's also unclear. And it's a little hard to define. The residence is tied to some civil rights. First of all, the election. That's what we've been talking about here all day. First of all, local elections. In theory, it is possible for a smaller unit of local self-government to apply for the leading place of persons living outside the Republic of Croatia in reality. She used to be here, so she left, for various reasons, kept or reported her residence and now applied for the head office. It may occur that a large number of bus voters also come to the place, have the right to vote because they also fictitiously report the residence and elect this one as the head of the municipality. And now we have the head of the community who's been elected, he doesn't live here himself, chosen by those who don't live there. It is an absurd situation, it is theoretically possible in Croatia, which should certainly be done, and there are the intensities of this law quite good. That the influence of the residence has or may have or may be significant in parliamentary elections, it was proved precisely in the last parliamentary elections in the 5th constituency. It was decided in one term with 30 votes, 30 votes by those who do not live in the 5th constituency. They really live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One of them is our fellow congressman. He even admitted it publicly at a committee meeting, that he fictitiously reported his residence in Croatia and voted in the 5th constituency, therefore. He had the right to vote as a citizen, but in Bosnia and Herzegovina for a list in the 11th electoral unit. This is what an election scam is all about. Pure electoral fraud. So we have a colleague who admitted to being an election fraud. Publicly, at the committee meeting in front of the press. That's what this law allows. 30 of them in the 5th constituency, one term, and there must have been more than 30. Therefore, the Housing Act can also have a significant impact on the result of parliamentary elections. Let's imagine the situation where the election result is tight, it's about one, two mandates, who will gain the right to form a government or form a coalition, and then such a coalition or the right to create a government, to be an election winner based on electoral fraud, on a false application of residence. It's definitely something that needs to be done, and here I welcome the intensity of the law. They come out of it and some social rights, disability rights, unemployment benefits, maternity benefits, child benefits. You see, I don't think it's fair for someone who doesn't contribute to society, because he doesn't pay taxes, tosssssss rights out of a society he doesn't contribute to. This is not fair to those who contribute. You know, I was just talking about this election scam and the result of the election. That same colleague of ours, he voted for the Harras Act. With his will, he forced the citizens here to have fewer salaries and fewer pensions, and in that position to decide it came with an electoral fraud. Well, that's absurd. Well, of course, citizens in Croatia are opposed to that situation by a public opinion survey. It's perfectly logical, because they feel cheated, they feel played out. Well, they feel played out when it comes to social rights, because it's hard for citizens to live in Croatia, and they need that social assistance. And maybe it could be bigger if they didn't have to share it with those who don't actually have a right to it, because they pay taxes to another state, not Croatia. I think that's where Mr. Secretary of State should take one principle. Two passports, one ID. Someone can have two citizenships, so let them have, let them have two passports, but they only have one residence, because they don't have two residences. You say it's very difficult for the M.O.P. to spend. Look, there's a family law. Only one marriage can be concluded. There's no other marriage, because it's a bigamy, until the first one gets divorced. It has nothing to do with citizenship or where the first marriage was made. It could've been made in New Zealand, in America, anyway. There's no getting a new marriage until he's divorced. There is no residence application until the issue of previous application of the residence is resolved. There are no two residences. How do you do that? It's a matter of implementation, a matter of the ingenuity of the legislator, but I'm convinced, if it can be implemented in the Family Law, that it can also be done in the House. There is no danger that anyone will remain deprived of their rights. Well, the state takes care of itself to secure a citizen's residence. If you don't have it, then the state will assign it to you by place of birth if you don't... It's a parent's place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He'll find some principle to assign you. It's like the state is trying to assign citizenship to everyone, that there's no apatride. So if it's no different, then you get citizenship for the fact that you were born on the territory of a state, so everyone has to have citizenship, because everyone on the territory of a country is born. Therefore, there is no fear that someone will be cut off, but the fear that all of us will continue electoral fraud, that there will continue to be an unfair situation in terms of social rights. That's why I support this bill. Too bad it's not more sophisticated, but maybe the government's amendments can still be arranged to make it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48420	Thank you very much. We've got two replications. First of all, dear colleague Marija Lugarić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48421	In your debate, you warned of one of the consequences of the false application that it had resulted in the fact that several of these false applications were actually chosen by MPs completely and in some way and illegally selected. I would like to warn you of another consequence of false application, which is a violation of the Law on Election Units, i.e. an indirect violation of the Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The law stipulates that the number of voters per election unit must not differ with each other, plus a minus 5%, and the difference between the voter's unit with the largest number of voters and in which the smallest number of voters in these last parliamentary elections was 27%. In past elections, the difference between the number of voters in the electoral unit with the largest and lowest number of voters was 22%. This means that here, where not only some principle and MPs who have been elected have not been violated, but also another law that questions whether parliamentary elections have been legally implemented at all? Because in a way each, the value of each of us here as representatives of the elected Croatian Parliament is not equal, and that was not the fundamental idea of the law. There are, therefore, many more consequences that occur as manipulations by the application of the residence, i.e. the residence of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48422	Thank you very much. And another replica, colleague Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48423	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Stazic mentioned in his presentation the electoral frauds stemming from the application of the residence, i.e. the desire to resolve it by this law. I must say that I absolutely support the desire to arrange in Croatia lists of voters on which there are between 500 thousand and a million maybe voters who are not actually present. But unfortunately, I have to say that I am convinced that this law will not achieve it. So, I welcome the good will to solve this problem, but I do not believe that competent persons, in accordance with this law, and therefore these are police officials, can, within a realistic time frame of several years, make insights into several hundred thousand addresses in order to bring the voters' real lists into line with the real situation. I think it's impossible and that actually through this law it will be able to be reduced over a few years so maybe by a few dozen thousand, but it will be in a total percentage of maybe 10%, maybe even up to 20% of the voters that are not actually. But the mains of 60, 70 or 80% of voters who are listed in voters' lists, and they should not be in them through the application of this law, and even in a ten-year period, I don't see that it can be solved. And I don't see that we can then say that by applying this law, we have achieved that goal, and that's the list of voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48424	Thank you. Replica response, dear fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48425	Dear colleague, we come up with a very important question. Is the purpose of proposing this law really an alibi to say here we try something, we intend to fix the voters' lists, and that behind it is actually the government's wish that the situation doesn't change significantly? I think your replica is going that way. I don't know how much this law is going to achieve, maybe a little, maybe not enough. And I've made some objections to that law myself. I call upon the Ministry to finish it already in this adoption. If you don't show enough ha, you change the law further. We can expect new amendments to the law, we can suggest for ourselves if we see that this one does not achieve the desired effect. But if the government's real intention to now propose some law is aware that it will not edit voters' lists, is aware that it will continue to allow the dead souls to vote on BiH, aware that this means actually electoral fraud, so it only releases some kind of alibi law, colleagues have begun to return a little early, so they have to move away again. If that's the case, it's pretty dangerous. Then it's pretty dangerous, but it's already coming out of a voluntary debate about this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48426	Thank you, fellow Stazic. There's still a debate going on. Dear colleague Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48427	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. It becomes clear to all of us because it stems from existing laws that everyone can have more citizenship, can have more residences, but that they can only have one and only residence. Our debate here by several MPs has been going in a direction that is not being asked and worrying questions that are not being asked to one serious state. So there was a question about how the state would determine through its institutions that someone was living? So, there are suspicions and the highest state officials in the state's ability to control the fact of life, something that is evident, which manifests every day. Even Mr. Secretary of State says, I quote, "The MP can't determine facts that he doesn't know." Well, you do, so you can determine facts that you don't know. The question arises, namely, someone who can be really set up for court where it is determined in an out-of-pard procedure for 6 months. Here, six months. There. We're not going to talk here about some bizarre situations and individual difficult cases, but the fact that no one has turned on the light for 10 years, where electricity is not spent, water, is it not difficult for the MUP to determine? So how are you going to expose criminals who are still hiding when the fact of residence, so life, the manifestations of life, say you can very hard to determine? You didn't say that, and why? Because it's one history that dates back to the '90s where almost one party confiscation was formed to make it so. It was one political engineering, one vulgar macarovelism. It was something that horrified every decent citizen and every decent voter. The diaspora list was often a fig leaf for BiH's voting body where they came out here. Double residences and twice the vote, and even more than once, not to mention the appearance of dead souls at polling stations. And that's why every decent citizen, because it was a whole system-wide diaspora voting policy, became somewhat diaspora. However, what a notional political, national and moral prank was created for people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for people in Croatia, not to react properly and throughout this time, to often make these people puppets for certain political goals. Of course, this has been rejected for a long time, and of course it has caused scandals and special attention from the European Union, which is happening with elections in Croatia where dead souls can vote. Unfortunately, I'm familiar with your clagger every election season, "Who knows who would have forested my seas if we didn't have a voice from the diaspora?" Therefore, no one denies that every citizen of ours votes and should vote. And it's good to manifest their will. However, the overstretched flosscules and some kind of soul-care that now appears here with discovery and ultimately with the recognition of abuse without any light, without any fear of any consequences, appear to the soul-care community, so what will happen to the people who will be discovered and abolished that they had a double residence. But the question arises whether they will damage the state or both countries that have cheated. Well, everyone's showing false information to the authorities is a crime everywhere, especially when you draw material donations out of it. ...what are we going to do now? And why is that? Because the unclean conscience was out of it, because it manipulated these people and eventually kept them in their hands. We gave you that and that, you know it doesn't belong to you and now you're gonna pay us back in this way. So let's make these people proud citizens and servants for someone's selfish and dirty interests. The Constitutional Court, of course, abolished the supplementation of the House Act, which was truly monstrous. And a good definition exists after he reacted to the Constitutional Court and should be rewritten, and this is really funny what appeared in the provision of Article 2. So the residence has two elements, a corpus and animus. The Corps is a fact of life, animus that a person really has that intention of living. So the residence is where the citizen settled with the intention of living in it all the time. And all those human needs for migration to lives where people move fast, where they school in one part of the world, where they may be treated on the other end. They're just current residences. So the fact of life and this corpus and animus really isn't hard to detect and determine. However, something that really causes anxiety is whether this bill will double-major one and the other, to satisfy those who do not wish to discover that they have a double residence, that they have been abused, that they have lied to both the states and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and on the other hand to die again, and those who say that this is not exactly the way to approach it. Unfortunately, some of the explanations that have come out of the government so far justify this suspicion of what counterpart Stazic was talking about. Therefore, if the MUP has provided explanations that these mass erasures will not be, that they will not be able to lead and procedures, as the police of each of us can legitimateize, can identify this right, it is especially those cases that require the logic of common sense to be controlled. If in one room, in one address you have so many dozens of people, the first thing you need to do is send an authorized person to control these people, to ring the doorbell, to open no one, to ask the neighbors. On the committees, many mind heads knew about constitutional law. How do we determine that? Ask the peasant in the village if he lives there. Ask the first residents on the street if he lives there, he'll give you the right answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48428	Thank you very much. One correction to the quote, distinguished colleague Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48429	I'm not saying I heard her entire exposure because I was out there, but one finding that's really unacceptable to a respected colleague. So you can't generalize things and talk about people who lied or lied and your country and your country to each other, just a little bit like you said. It's completely unacceptable and completely incorrect. For what? Because we should at least know that according to the Law on residence and residence of citizens in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the person who left Bosnia and Herzegovina and lived, lives permanently in a country and maintains ties with the family or spends some time in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have to check out from Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what you need to know. Let's talk once about the arguments and not the flat and just like that, and especially this last finding was God's saving. I don't know how to count the grains and tell if they live here or not. Therefore, he who has a ID card in Croatia is registered in the Republic of Croatia. If that breach is established by a prescribed procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48430	Thank you very much. First of all, it was a plate of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. Dear colleague Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48431	A colleague in violation of order 209. Rules of Procedure. He was not correcting anything I admitted that he had come and not heard my debate at all, so he forged my statement and my debate, so he forged the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina which are identical to existing Croatian laws in terms of residence and residence. Identical. The residence of all countries of the world and the definition of it identical. You've simply commented on something and feared it to make our bodies look like ours. .../Speakers speak in the same voice, not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48432	You said what was wrong or wrong by you. Our corrections usually go that way. Comrade Bagaric, you've been lifting a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You're giving up? Okay. We have a replica of a colleague, Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48433	Comrade Ingrid, you mentioned a dispute over the constitutional interpretation of this matter since the Constitutional Court has already dealt with this law and put three essential provisions of the law out of force. We also expect that even after the law has been passed, no matter what the final version will be that the Constitutional Court will re-rule with this law, and only then will we see what is and what is not constitutional. Another thing I wanted to say was one proposal that is not originally mine but came to me during this debate on the subject of Croatia's possible concern for citizens outside Croatia. Some countries that also care about their citizens outside the state in a social sense have resolved this by not transferring money but by vouchers that can only be used in the territory of the country that has issued, and given that such experiences already exist in Europe and I know that inside the government there are experts who know this matter well would be good for you to pass on to the Prime Ministers that precisely the use of these people could solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48434	Thank you. Answer to the replica of colleague Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48435	The Constitutional Court is in its decision 496/1998. In 19.1.2000, he abolished that new addition to the residence law, so that the residence was the place where the citizen settled with the intention of living in it all the time and now he abolished that supplement that was truly bizarre to prove that it was owned or owned. Therefore, the property was attached to the residence. Someone may own a lot of houses but to be really... and live in a whole other part, that is, another place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The property does not have, it often coincides with the residence, but it is not always a condition. The important thing is that the fact of life, what our colleague Bagaric is terrified of is the fact that the residence could be controlled, so that the police could knock on the door to see if these people really live there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48436	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. Dear colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48437	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of citizens with a final draft of the law. So we have a law that is already a positive rule of law of the Republic of Croatia, a law that is already in force and a law that should, since it has been voted by the Croatian Parliament, be in application in the Republic of Croatia. The existing amendments and additions, the proposal to amend and supplement the law just wants to implement what the existing law had in its implementation, and that was that in one part it was inconclusive. So, the regulation that we passed in the Croatian Parliament was inconclusive because of certain elements of this law, above all, the will of a person who really did not reside in a place where she applied to check herself out of that place and log out. A legal solution that is before us to amend and supplement the law in view of everything we can treat as a kind of legal certainty for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and also for the Republic of Croatia because there can be a great confusion if these legal provisions start to be misread, above all that certain citizens of the Republic of Croatia will lose some rights that are acquired by the foundation of citizenship or some rights will be lost which are not the intensity and intentions of this amendment and the addition of the law. Simply, what is a regulation and the law of the Croatian Parliament should be regulated in particular when we have heard in discussions today that up to 30, 40 people can be reported at one place of residence, which certainly raises questions and legal certainty, as well as those who can appear at these addresses. We must say that the amendments and additions to this law are, above all, not the intention of giving the police powers that they do not have but the intention of establishing a real state, given that there are also elements where, especially when it comes to local elections, elections for the Croatian parliament question fundamental rights and that is the right indeed true will of voters in places where our citizens really live. It is possible that with a variety of residents from the number of voters enrolled, political will and electoral will are simply changed in many cities, municipalities and places of the Republic of Croatia that we heard today through this parliamentary debate. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on residence and residence of citizens simply needs to be understood in the context that it is finally necessary to determine the real situation, the actual number of our citizens, the actual number of voters enrolled in the electoral lists in the Republic of Croatia but should have in any way a good will not be questioned by something which, based on the lack of understanding of legal provisions, does not understand the nomtech of the purpose of this law wrongly interpreted in the public, so it is the very will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the very intention of the proposer, but also the intention of our parliamentary representatives here in the Croatian Parliament. In the current proposal for amending and supplementing the law, I support above all that I believe it is an element for the introduction of order into a large forest of riots, that it is an element for strengthening the legal certainty of the Republic of Croatia above all and in the context of the legal certainty and entry of our country into the European Union. And I believe that, in addition to some of the nomotechnical arrangements of this law and the interpretation of certain articles that we are going to do in the second reading, this law should be supported and indeed everything that is said in these twenty articles is quite understandable, and there should be no question of the legitimacy, the security of our citizens and the freedom of movement of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48438	Thank you very much. Followed by a further debate, distinguished counterpart Dragan Vukic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48439	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. By listening to all the debates from morning until now, except when I was not in the assembly during the discussion of one MP, I realized that this Assembly is deeply aware of the problem in which Croats live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of what changes we have on the agenda today and additions to the Law on residence in the Republic of Croatia. The law has raised a huge storm in recent days, mainly among Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All or mostly all of Croatia's political parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina reacted to the law. Representatives of the Catholic Church, prominent individuals, etc. also responded. Conscious means that a great storm has gone up in this debate I will try to point to all the forces that have led to the storm and all the storms. I come from an 11th constituency, more specifically from a space called Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say that around this bill, all political parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a Croatian omen were manifested, I said. I want to say it loud and clear, because this session is being broadcast and people are watching TV broadcasts, Croatians, Croatian citizens wherever they are and wherever they live, this law will not lose Croatian citizenship. This is important to say because some media and in the Republic of Croatia, and they wrote outside these days how dual citizenship is abolished. It's just not true and it's not true. The aim of this law is to arrange for residence records in the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because they haven't worked out and worked out since, I dare say, the Croatian state. It is trying to impute that this law on residence records will wipe out Croats born in Bosnia and Herzegovina. No one will even be allowed to delete the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the residence records because they were born in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You gentlemen from the ministry please find a formula and offer it until the second reading how to solve the problems of Croatian citizens and citizens who have a neatly registered residence in the Republic of Croatia, so they are regular citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and they are born and have or may have had a home and property in the Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina. What we're discussing today is I dare say that this is a direct consequence of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The Republic of Croatia is one of the co-signatures of Dayton. You wonder what Dayton has to do with the amendments to the law in the Republic of Croatia. It does, it does. This is an opportunity, although we do not often have the opportunity to talk about the problems of our people in the Dayton and Post-Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina. History that has not anointed the Croats has led us to the fact that today the Croats live almost all over the world, and thank God they have the Croatian state. The Republic of Croatia. I shall dare say that the Croatian state, as it says in the Constitution, is the state of the Croatian people and all the citizens living in it. So the Republic of Croatia is a state, picturesquely spoken, of the Croatian peoples 1/1. The Croats should have another state shared with the other two nations where they would be 1/3. Unfortunately, it's not like that. And gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize in advance for having to listen to me, but I think you should hear this, that we all need to know this together because other than what is important for the residence in the Republic of Croatia, it is much more important for national security. Of course, the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina wanted the Republic of Croatia and I will not talk about what they are and how much they gave to the Republic of Croatia, not regretting themselves. But I will talk about it in the Parliament and all those who speak of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please do not speak superficially. I know that people don't know much about Bosnia and Herzegovina and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the world's great plagues. But speaking then let them not forget the fact that in this war people around Derventa, around Zepč, around Mostar, about Stoc for the Republic of Croatia died without ever seeing her eyes. Dayton has stopped the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is the only thing that is good in the peace agreement. Everything that happened after Dayton went to harm the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Three peoples are placed in two entities, three national bodies are placed in two entities with two souls, and we as the fewest people by that logic should be left without a soul. As Cardinal Puljic recently said in an interview and speaking to representatives of the International Community, don't bury us alive. Should we say that we have agreed to Dayton for a greater purpose? I don't think we need to be told why. The Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina have remained alive and she is today, I dare say, the space of dangerous life. Who helps the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina and where they see and seek their protection? The Republic of Croatia helps them and in the Republic of Croatia see their safety. And where and who else to influence if they don't want the Republic of Croatia. It is not the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina who are opposed to editing residence records in the Republic of Croatia. However, hysteria served in connection with the voter lists in the Republic of Croatia should be stopped. You are witnessing on my last current watch that I asked the Minister of Resorship if a person, a Croatian citizen, could be in two places in the electoral list for elections in the Republic of Croatia either presidential or parliamentary. Then I got a clear answer that someone couldn't repeat themselves twice in the voters list for those elections, which is true. Gentlemen from the ministry I offer you a proposal to install into the law a provision under which every Croat, regardless of where he lives in the world, will have a document that can prove his Croatian membership the way many in Europe, the world, for example, the French, the Italians. Let every Croat have a similar card as our colleague Furio Radin has a member of the Italian people. Before this final law is passed, the government should adopt a set of rules to protect all the rights of those affected by this law. So, all social groups need to be protected in a way that protects members of the defence population by means of a three- or four-year-old contract. It was about abuse. Probably with this, like any other law, there are certain abuses. How the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina probably abuse this law, and what we could hear here today. I wonder why you also forget those other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who also violate the Law on residence and report their addresses in areas of special state concern. They report their companies there because there are smaller taxes, and they live entirely on other addresses. What about people? I wanted to see here, bring the end of it, say that we're one people, and we're probably just as talented as playing football, and we're probably just about to have a malfeasance. [[/Invader Friščić: A colleague, bring the debate to the site. Here's the time.]] And I am surprised that no one has called this menu Bilić yet to invite footballers who have several ID cards and I am surprised that no one calls Marina Cilic, and I am deeply hoping that this law will also welcome Croatians from Bosnia and Herzegovina and all other laws that will bring the Republic of Croatia into the European Union as soon as possible, because that will improve the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I would like to have a thematic session in this House on the rights and position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible. We've got something to say. You've got something to help us with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48440	Thank you. Next up for discussion, dear colleague Daniel Srb reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48441	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have been facing a law that has brought an exceptional public attention in recent weeks, and I would say in particular in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the question arises, in fact, what are the real reasons for passing this law. They were also defined through the government's intention to edit different records and lists of voters which I would absolutely welcome and support. On the other hand, statements also came from representatives of the government in the Republic of Croatia that the aim is to remove certain persons who use different social rights, and objectively do not live in the Republic of Croatia, but are citizens, or live, resident in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was precisely one of the reasons why an extraordinary storm was raised, I would say in the neighbouring country, and it even led to the meeting of the two countries’ bishopial conferences on this subject, and they also presented their views on it. Of course, it was concern about the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are using certain social rights in the Republic of Croatia. In today’s debate and here, it has been discussed on several occasions as if it were persons who are basically, serving different violations of the law, holes in laws to come to some material benefit. But the problem is obviously much deeper, because right now, when the constitutional changes are under way in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina and when the Croatian people are seeking their position in the neighbouring country and when a certain declaration is being proposed here and here in this Assembly about the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina in such conditions must be found in Croatia in a way that can strengthen the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than challenge in that same people a certain level of mistrust about the relationship between Croatia and the level of protection they can find in the Republic of Croatia. We often talked about how Croatia has a strategic interest in helping Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Although I am not a Croat originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I recognise the importance of just the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Republic of Croatia, but also the fact that Croatia must have a system and strategy to help these people to live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the rest there and enjoy social rights in a completely legal way without any need to serve different residences in the Republic of Croatia. But when it comes to this law itself and I trust his fundamental intention to arrange the voters' lists, I must say that I am deeply convinced that this will not happen through this law, even though I do not doubt possible and in good faith. Namely, if there is an assumption of nearly a million voters in the lists in the Republic of Croatia who are not objectively, and this law is expected by police officials to carry out insights and the basis of these insights of the real record device, I am deeply convinced that we could say that we are satisfied with the job if 80% of these non-existent voters would be resolved, and that would mean hundreds and hundreds of thousands of addresses.... /. which would have to be checked by the representatives of the police administration without saying that if there were no specific tips, we would have to visit 4 million and 300,000 voters. I don't believe that's possible. I do not believe that it is possible to do this over a few years because if it were, then Croatia would solve the problem of the census, which could also be done by employees in police administrations, and we know that it is not realistic and that it is not possible. This law, in a very sensitive moment for the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, made me say no harm, caused uncertainty in the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and certainly because of the very announcement of this law, and several thousand people will move to the Republic of Croatia, which is also a cost for taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia. Let's not just talk about users of different social rights as a cost for the Republic of Croatia, and increased immigration in the Republic of Croatia represents a cost for taxpayers, and makes Croatia multiple damages. Of course, Croatia should lead a different policy, have a system on the one hand and strategic assistance to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in totally legal and legitimate ways, so that they have no reason to look for their future in immigration to the Republic of Croatia, and for Croatia it is not only strategic but economically more cost-effective. Since this law will not solve the fundamental problems that exist in Croatia, which is a list of voters ultimately possible and the results of parliamentary elections primarily as a result of poor voter records, I am deeply convinced that we will not achieve this through the application of this law, and I will not vote for it, not only for this reason, but for the fact that at this time, when Croatia has no solution to the support system for the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is causing certain lack of political doubt and is extremely dangerous at this point, especially in this way, because it does not solve the fundamental reasons for which it is being brought, and is causing numerous doubts and controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48442	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Neda Klaric applied for the replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48443	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here I would, I've decided on a replica of you, Mr. Srb, which may be let's call it "ambivalent content." Ambivalent precisely because I am actually sharing your opinion that in the eyewitnesses, you have failed to say that the administrative procedure of a possible, i.e. a request to delete from the residence records of a person who is not at that address, is a large job, and this is exactly a testimony, as well as the articles of the bill, amendments and additions to this law when, from which it can be read, it appears that it will not work on mass deletes from the residence records. In addition, I have to say by leaving me with another certainty that we are on a good track in the adoption of a good law is the exception in Article 7 of this bill, which says that the police administration or police station will not make a solution to delete the person from the address if there is a temporary work of persons abroad, and this needs to be demonstrated by special permission, work permit, etc., as well as persons to whom the programme of return and care of exiles, refugees and displaced persons, the reconstruction programme or housing programme, or those who still have refugee status. I am also saying this for reasons why, like you, I have no origin from Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for many years as a professional, I have worked with people who have used refugee status in the Republic of Croatia and for whom I am as sure as you that during the Homeland War they suffered great casualties, not only have members of their families died, but all other difficulties have actually been shared together with us who hosted the Republic of Croatia. So I am convinced that this first reading will open up space, a new space for all of us to do as best and in... The forms could pass the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48444	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48445	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. It's a law that regulates fundamental human rights, so even before a concrete debate, I would say that not every knot can be solved with a sword. This is really a knot that has big consequences anyways. The first thing I'm saying is that relationships between people don't work out like relationships between things. People are much more than things, and people live even with fiction and presumptions. That's the point of regulating relationships in society, not acting like suitcases or stuff. Such a relationship with humans offends man’s dignity. This attempt to supplement the Law on residence or what is already called should be a purpose, the aim of enabling authorities, state authorities and authorities to always record whether a citizen is in a place of residence or in a place of residence. In other words, to make public authorities available to their citizens. When we set up such a thing, then we should take the Constitution and as long as the constitutional norm and constitutional principle stick to it, and the Constitution says that the citizen of the Republic of Croatia cannot be exiled from the Republic of Croatia, nor can his citizenship be taken away. At the same time. Seven. The bill's proposal says the police administration, gentlemen, will, by official duty, go to the address the citizen of the subjugated Republic of Croatia reported and check there whether he really lives there or stays there. And if we don't know it, we leave it to the police department to establish it by its own act, not the Parliament, but the police, and if she doesn't find it there, they will bring a solution and drive him out of Croatia. That's what it says here. It writes, literally, that "on the basis of all these facts and circumstances it is undoubtedly found that the person does not permanently move him out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia." That's what the government's proposal says. That's a nasty fellow, that's disgusting. Why is that? Because of Article 32 of the Treaty on the Functioning The constitution says that a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, therefore a subdued citizen of the Republic of Croatia, can move out of Croatia, stay and return whenever he wants to Croatia and choose his residence in Croatia. That's what we let him do. Of course, what's the problem here? The problem here really is that there are two actual residences. And the bigger problem is that in local elections, which, according to European standards for the right to choose a local community, applies to the principle of residence. And we are amending the law to introduce that provision into the Constitution so that citizens of EU countries can vote for our local representatives based on their residence. So the concept of residence and residence differ very well. The residence is always a declaration that I want as a citizen. If not, Croatia could make a decision because we have a lot of homeless people, a lot of homeless people, that they will not live in the Republic of Croatia, don't live at the address, have no property, don't pay taxes and are not welcome citizens of the Republic of Croatia according to this proposal. That's how it turns out, according to this proposal. If that's the case, then it's really questionable whether human rights are integrated into human society and that's the first, fundamental one. For this reason, colleagues and colleagues, we need to know how a matter can be solved, not a knot solved by a sword. Now, can I go in particular, solve the problem unilaterally if the problem flows to two countries? It's not possible. It's not possible. Why isn't it possible? Could the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so citizens from other countries, say now BiH, because it is a thorn that stings, be able to resist Croatia? I can, because that's what the Constitution lets them do. The constitution does not say that Bosnians and Herzegians cannot move to Croatia, it does not say. It is said that citizens can choose whenever they want to move to the Republic of Croatia. If that's the case, and that's how it is, can we settle the question on a one-sided basis? We can't. Can we make a decision that Croatian citizens from BiH are not welcome in Croatia? We can't, although it seems from the debate we heard today. We can't. We have yet another valid reason to say that the double-dwelling issue has to be settled and the voters' lists are settled, but that's not this time. Because this unsettled relationship is really causing a conflict in Croatian, I will say it openly, not to the civil but to the national being. Croatia must define its policy, its own policy, the Croatian state. It must define its policy and implement and adopt laws in accordance with this policy. One of the important laws is Croatia's relationship with neighbouring countries, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. Why? Because there are very many Croatian citizens in these countries or vice versa, there are a significant number of citizens in Croatia from these countries. This law of the united crews of the states cannot be unilaterally resolved in such a way that Croatia or any other state treats its citizens in a different way. For this reason, colleagues and colleagues, let us accept that the current Constitution is in force, that Croatian citizens have the right to object to where they want to live if they are their citizens. Whether it is Zagreb, Split, Osijek or Slavonski Brod. And we accept something else as a fact, Croatia is a social state and it does not share its citizens before the law whether they have a villa and live in Switzerland, so we will not take away their residence as is the case with a man who earned the sale of the company 3 billion kuna and has a villa here at the Crossroad, it will not be taken away from the residence and lives in Switzerland, but will be a homeless resident because he is not welcome in Croatia. And who's gonna do that to him? The police, based on the rules that the police themselves will bring. The police themselves will adopt a rule that is valid for reasons of making decisions and taking away his residence. So much for our knowledge and our desire to respect our own constitution. So, once again, I ask the Government not to put the Parliament in a position to discuss who is a more Croatian citizen, who is less. Let the issue of voting problems, especially in local elections, resolve in line with EU standards, and with countries that are neighbouring us try to sign an interstate agreement. And solve it in a valid and constitutional way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48446	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose MPs and MPs, since we have a quorum and we don't have a lot of agendas to vote on, so I would suggest after the vote that we finish the agenda. But let's get to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 11 individual discussions. I suggest we continue the debate on this bill and then after that, perhaps, it would be according to the fact that we have to work a little bit longer because of the backlog on the debated agenda points. Well, here's your turn. Secondly, after the consultation, we concluded that the session would continue at 9:30 on Tuesday. What? ... And those four days, by the end of the 16th session, we'd be doing something a little longer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That way we'd avoid that week or at least I think we could avoid it the week we thought we should continue this session. We have a lot of agenda points. I think that would be good. So on Tuesday, it is the 23rd of this month at 9:30 p.m. we continue to work, with the first item of the agenda being the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War from 2005 to 2009. So with that point on Tuesday, we would begin the parliament's work. So I suggest we finish this agenda and move on. So Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament of Neven Mimica is now up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48448	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We'll wait for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48449	Please! I don't think there has to be such a loud retreat from Parliament. Please. Here, thank you very much again. I think a law like this should have been passed a long time ago. It was when it was clear that the lists of voters of things were wrong and that for the first time the number of registered voters with residence in the Republic of Croatia crossed the number of full-time citizens with residence in Croatia. In recent presidential elections, the difference between those included in the voter lists in Croatia and the actual statistical number of adults was as many as 499 thousand people, voters, or citizens. You'll admit, it's not a little mess. Due to electoral interests, this issue has been systematically omitted, and it has soon grown beyond the framework of the disorderly voter lists, and has now become a matter of political relations and care for Croats outside the country. I would like to say immediately that I cannot accept the the thesis that some are now trying to impose in public debates, that the regulation of the issue of residence will necessarily undermine the current rights in the fields of social, health, pension, educational, tax, defence or maternity system used by Croatian citizens with real residence, mostly in neighbouring BiH, and based on an incorrectly registered residence somewhere in Croatia. The constitutional obligation to care for Croats outside the country, neither in practice nor in regulation, cannot be based on abuse and violation of the legal institute of residence and untrue applications of residence. Therefore, we must and can lay this concern on new foundations that will have no connection with the issue of editing the electoral lists, which is the original and necessary intensities of this law. The separation of these two issues in their creation and in their resolution is of real interest and of Croatian citizens in the country and outside the country. That's why something first about editing the residence records. In a national sense, I welcome the proposal's intention to create a legal basis for clearing these records, but it seems, in all likelihood, that this good principle has technically been done badly. Here's six examples for that. First, the definition of residence in art. 2. It is unscathed and unnecessarily introduces an incorrect element of the reporting of residence as determining the definition. The existing definition reads: "the residence is the place where the citizen settled with the intention of living in it all the time" contains both the willing and factual element of settlement in the residence, so I don't think it should be changed. Second, as a basis for the initiation of the procedure for eradicating persons from the address of the registered residence, it would be good to add, in addition to the request of the authority of the state administration and the units of local self-government, a request of a legal or natural person who has a legal interest in such erasure. Third, the police administration shall be obliged to delete the residence if it finds that the person has permanently moved out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is not covered by the biggest problem of eradicating residences for people who have never even had a real residence in Croatia, but only fictitiously reported it. Therefore, Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 is replaced by the following: A new paragraph 3 should also be added to the situation where the applicant has given incorrect or incorrect information or has residence in another country and has residence in the Republic of Croatia. Then in Art. 13th new paragraph 8 is not specified by the deadline within which the Minister of the Interior is to adopt a Regulation for the implementation of the clearance procedure from the residence records. In addition, the obligation to adopt a Regulation on the procedure for issuing a decision on the check-out of a person from a residence address is not prescribed. Therefore, the shortcomings seriously reduce the credibility of the applicant in terms of possibilities, as well as the intention of real implementation of the establishment of residence records. Fifth, Art. 13c is said to inform the police administration of the authority responsible for keeping a list of voters on deleted and check-outs from the residence records to delete persons, according to a list of voters for local and regional self-government elections. As such an incomplete provision raises the question, does the motioner not intend to also arrange lists of voters by election units for the parliamentary elections on the basis of erasure and check-out of residence records? Or does he think that the disorder in the residence records doesn't affect the voter lists for the parliamentary elections? And on the sixth, I think the argument is so flawed that they get the impression that the proposings have gone so far as to formulate the provisions of the law that then the work on the explanation seemed too difficult. Namely, the applicant has not quantified any consequences arising from the election side, i.e. the voter's lists due to the disorderly residence records. The Secretary of State told us that the difference between the number of voters and the number of inhabitants was discussed and convinced the OSCE ambassadors that the reasons for the difference were, and it would be good to have the same reasons and those arguments to convince us that there is no problem. There are also no quantified consequences of riots in residence records on all the social and material rights that we see or hear or someone said they are being used for, so we are not sure which volume, which volume of problems we are talking about. Financial, material and whether this is the reason for everything we discuss, the impact of this law on the decision-making and interest of Croatian citizens in BiH really is happening. I therefore hold that without serious consideration and acceptance of the above and other proposals for second reading, without defining all specificities and exceptions to residence surveillance that they will be seriously challenged without it, but also the proposal to implement this law in practice at all. Only a very clear and precise law on residence will remove doubts about the intentions of its implementation. Because when it is looked at and now the applicable law has given powers to the competent authorities to, under official duty, stand by the current law, delete from the residence records of the person who gave incorrect and false information. The problem was that police administrations were not largely trying to use their legal authority. Here it is necessary to say that even the implementation of this law itself will not be enough to fully edit the list of voters and electoral systems as a whole. In parallel with constitutional changes that need to regulate the principles of the exercise of the electoral right of Croatian citizens resident outside the Republic of Croatia, it will also be necessary to regulate electoral legislation, as well as to conclude interstate agreements to ensure the reliability of our electoral lists, for example. erasing dead voters from abroad. Now, one more thing about the other issue, about resolving the support of Croatian citizens in BiH after erasing their residence records in Croatia. It is a great political shame, mainly for the Croats in BiH, that the material care and material support of the Croatian state in BiH is now only being seen in the context of organising the voter lists. Unfortunately, all these years, the ruling structures have worked much harder to include the Croats in their political and electoral interests in Croatia than to actively help them strengthen their position, political and material in BiH. So today it is difficult for both of us to think about a solution that will respect the sovereignty and dignity of both Croatia and the Bosnian-Herzegovina state. And possible solutions are possible, and I expect the government to propose a new model of social care for the Croats in BiH by the second reading, and to consider one of the possible solutions to ensure that those resources that are being allocated today to support the cultural and traditional needs of the Croats in BiH also provide adequate dimensional additional funds for the transparent programmes of their social and other material support in Bosnia and Herzegovina without the need for these programmes to be linked to the registered residence in Croatia. This would avoid all these major debates heard with the proposed amendments to the Law on residence and using too strong words on the threat of the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, their emigration, their discrimination, not respecting the constitutional equality of all Croatian citizens, and all because the government has finally shown interest in resolving the problem of double residence and in regulating the list of voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48451	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48452	In one part of your debate about the consequences that have falsely reported residences to the elections, i.e. on the electoral lists, you spoke of parliamentary elections. In this debate, I would like to warn, in fact, by this debate, of another consequence, which is actually the illegality of the Law on Election Units, because the Law on selecting MPs has been set out that elections take place in constituencies where the number of voters must not be greater plus or the target 5%. The difference between polling units with the highest number of voters and those with the lowest number of voters in the last election was 27%. The law only allows 5%. So, it's not just a question of legality to say so in the sense that you've been saying, but we have an additional problem, in fact, with the illegality of the Election Units Act itself, which arises as a consequence of the reported residences, from which then the electoral lists are generated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48453	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative and vice president of the House of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48454	Thank you very much. So, the respected colleagues today, for the second time, are very argumentably insisting on the very impact of the residence records and on the internal Croatian schedule of voters by election units and on the difference that greatly exceeds the legal difference of plus, minus 3%: because of the assurance of such an argument, I cannot agree with you and, together with you, insist that the issue of the implementation of the Law on Elections in relation to the possible maximum differences in the number of voters in certain election units is taken very seriously and that we simply do not allow the following parliamentary elections to be broken in this respect and that in this way we question the regularity of the total elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48455	Thank you. It is time for the guest, the individual debate of Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence and residence of citizens is certainly a first-class political issue that we see from all the discussions that preceded today's parliamentary debate. This issue raises a great public interest, as well as interested groups whose rights will be defined by this law, and the task is for us to find the most just solution or the least bad solution so as not to deny someone their acquired rights. That's why I think it's a good thing that the urgency of this bill has been removed and that the law will be discussed in two readings, because I think there's a big space for the law to be corrected. At the present social moment, this legal solution that the government is proposing appears to be objective and legally neutral. However, it could agree with the statements of representatives of yustie et pax who say it is a biased law favouring one ethnic group compared to the other, as is also visible in certain articles and articles of this law. The proposal for a law in Article 2 defines the residence as follows. The residence is a place that the citizen has reported as his residence with the intention of living in it all the time and where the citizen really lives. According to Article 7 of the proposal, paragraph 3 of the Police Administration or police station will, under official duty, make a decision at the request of the Authority of the State Administration or of the units of local self-government to delete persons from the address of the registered residence, provided that, on the basis of all facts and circumstances, the person clearly finds that the person has permanently moved out of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, paragraph 6 of that Article provides for exceptions, and those exceptions are for the following persons, who are on temporary work abroad, which is demonstrated by work permit, residence permit or confirmation by the employer, and to whom the programme of return and care of exiles, refugees and displaced persons, the reconstruction programme or the housing programme or who have refugee status is concerned. Therefore, it follows from this that the law is already selective in its intention and by its norms the principle of inequality before the law contrary to the provisions of Article 14(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. If there are problems in truth, they should be removed in a way that does not violate the Constitution by which all Croatian citizens are equal before the law. What is possible today to challenge or change is the electoral right of Croatian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia and, if possible, I would like to advocate a consensus of all stakeholders and authorities and opposition. And the starting point is certainly to align the records of the residence and residence of the citizens to the greatest extent possible with the permanent state. I don't think it's good, and neither is it desirable when buses are driven by voters from neighbouring countries to vote regardless of which ethnic group is on that bus and I agree that the solution to such situations is the introduction of order. If, on the other hand, the purpose of this law is to prevent the manipulation of social care, it is possible to face this problem with a selective approach and the busy work of adequate state authorities and services that would prevent the unwarranted use of social assistance without entering decisions that are much more difficult to deal with than the individual loss of social assistance. The war damage suffered by the Republic of Croatia is $35 billion, and our Croatian man has put up with this injustice with his head up, and he hardly tolerates injustice when he passes over his back, because it turns out that, apart from having to rebuild it, we have to work for those who are only fictitiously registered in the Republic of Croatia, and live and work in other countries most often in neighbouring countries. To clarify, I am not for the sake of abolishing the rights of other ethnic groups of refugees from Croatia because it would be desirable for all of them to return to their homeland and engage in its development and reconstruction, as I wish for Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina to live from their work. The financial burden for the social and educated rights that Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina had in Croatia can be settled in agreement with the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because such a bang exists in other countries and this cannot be resolved by this law, and it seems to me to be an intensity. Speaking of the necessity of such a legal solution should be taken into account the practice of other peoples in Europe, including Croatia. For example, Italians with dual citizenship can have residence in Croatia and Italy. The Hungarians have even stronger ties with members of their people with members of the Hungarian minority in Romania. So there are practices that are not contrary to the current legal solution. A large number of European countries recognise or tolerate the dual citizenship of their citizens. The award of citizenship of the Republic of Croatia to Bosnian-Herzegovina citizens and citizens who declared themselves ethnic Croats at the beginning of last decade belongs today to the so-called acquired rights. Therefore, care should be taken when adopting new legal solutions so as not to result in a wave of new immigrants that would bring the problem to the Republic of Croatia, as social issues that are one of the reasons for proposing such a restrictive law would only increase this. All the provisions of this law need to be discussed in detail so that the proposed draft law does not have far-reaching consequences on the further fate of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who suffered severely during the past war and is most evicted from their homeland. It is not difficult to see and agree that without the Croatian component Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot survive, which means that it can again become in a much more dangerous form of unrest in conflict with unpredictable proportions and destabilise the entire region which is certainly not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48457	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Petyr, you mentioned problems with buses for the first time today. So none of the speakers mentioned this issue today in this issue except that the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina are mentioned. Here, I come from Benkovac and in the last local elections in 2005 we totalled 14 thousand 386 voters, 2009. 16 thousand 147 means before the local elections and in the re-election for mayor at the end of the year, 16 thousand 656. According to the 2001 census, we had 9,000 760 residents. So we practically have twice as many voters as we have residents. Before the local elections, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zelec made a statement at the press conference that the County Assembly did not enter into the statutes the number of Serb minority councilors in the past, but left it to the new council, Zelec, called it a tactics related to dishonest actions regarding the voter census. I don't know who these wicked acts and tactics apply to. I think first of all, the problem is related to national minorities in this particular county. We Croats can't increase everything and we will. So I agree that's definitely the problem. For what? Because under the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, they have the right to a proportional representation in the representative body. So they're not in the field. You know by virtue of the Rehabilitation Act that when the house is restored, when a technical examination is signed, the house is ready to move in within 60 days. So we have a large number of houses that have been renovated, but they haven't been moved in. So that's a really big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48459	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48460	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Box, in principle the whole situation that you mentioned for your county and for your constituency, could unfortunately be reviewed for my electoral unit and my Sisak-Moslavina County. Here, if we recall the last local and regional elections, there have indeed been uncomfortable events where unfortunately the members of an ethnic group have been transported by buses. This was, of course, welcomed by the lack of respect for the local population because it seems to me that I really need to apply those rights that are guaranteed by law but should not be misused as was the case in your county for the past local and regional elections but also in my county. I think it's also the degradation of all those who ride buses, that it's a blow to their human dignity because actually these people are being watched through numbers, their integrity is being compromised and considered a voting machine. I think that's the kind of abuse that needs to be put to rest. Of course, all those who have the right to rebuild and return are invited and are invited to return on several occasions to use their right, but also here and by adopting and discussing this law I want to appeal to the government to advocate the principle of justice because it would be bad for this law to allow one ethnic group to actually do whatever it wants and to reflect the expense of another ethnic group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48461	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48462	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I welcome today's debate, I especially welcome some of them, some of the debates that were very quality, open, honest. However, I am also taking the opportunity to reject and actually call on us to stay away from those discussions and those parts of the debate that are arguing us here, who are sharing us and who are not solving any problems. I am convinced that it was to pass this law but without any interpretation it would do much less harm than already the damage done, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina with different interpretations and with different I would say intentions. Unfortunately, the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats and this law has been raised as a raised issue and almost the whole debate on this problem has shifted to the territory of the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is completely pointless because it is a law that regulates the issue of Croatian citizens' residence in the Republic of Croatia and deals with the issue of those who have moved from the Republic of Croatia or have changed their place of residence within the Republic of Croatia. To this extent, there is controversy that people simply can no longer recognize what this law regulates and what, possibly by this law and its application, is actually trying to regulate. For example, watch out for Croatian national radio television very often listen to journalists, editors of shows that, with some comments along with this law, regularly say that one of the citizenships and such things must finally be chosen. However, in the field when you meet them or knock on your door at some time that is not common and ask if we will have to return the passport. The second question we have is that I don't know about the interstate pension agreement, whether or not our pension will be abolished, etc. Thus, in this noise and crowds of these forests, the work of purposely caused is actually difficult to cope with. I welcome, Mariana Petir, that statement of the busyness of our bishops, I absolutely welcome and respect. However, I should also say that I was amazed by their unpreparedness. So if one of them says watch out in the diary as he tries to get that law through the shadow of this president's inauguration, then it turns out that man is not informed that this law is in regular procedure, so it's impossible to implement it. Turns out we don't really have communication, or quality communication with them, and that's really pointless. So we are not so far away that we would not have better communication and there is no need to further ask some questions that are not subject to this law, such as the question of the choice of citizenship, which is not a question of this law, such as the question of this law or the many rights acquired, etc. On the other hand, I absolutely welcome their efforts to point to the weight of the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which many people have spoken of here with respect, but not in a way that Croatia is involved in helping Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as some people who need this assistance because they have a certain kind of disability. Of course, there are people in both Croatia and Sweden and I don't know where they need more or less public concern, but of course it's not a question but a question of the overall Croatian national interest that must be fully considered. And I agree with my colleague Vukic, who talked about this problem here, I agree with Mrs Pusic, who also said very nicely what a question that deserves is a special conference not only of Croatia but of the International Community, especially of this part of Europe, because the issue of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina exceeds the question of all laws and all residences and not residences. So Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state divided into two entities in which one is dominated by a majority people, the other by a majority people. If these two entities continue this way, they are already in the confederation phase, in fact Bosnia and Herzegovina will not exist as the country we know and want. And what will happen to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is very easy to assume. However, what about the Croatian national interest in this case, especially if we have in mind and we know that both the Americans and the Russians and the French, I have not seen anyone under this hat of heaven who has no interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and why the Croats would actually lose that interest as such. When I talked about how we have to take care of everything that connects us, and everything that divides us, if they are really questionable and if the disputed rights of some of our people, that is, we, even if this is the right on which I am sitting here right now, if this is disputed, it should at least not be controversial because it is one symbolism and ultimately one constitutional obligation, etc., but if it is disputed and it is better to do so than to constantly be a stumbling block and a distraction. Therefore, if, in some small places along the Croatian border, some of our people from Bosnia and Herzegovina are leaving and voting in other small places in Croatia and thus affecting the will of choice in these small places, I think it should really be resolved that there is no more. However, also when it was said here that something was not going to happen,... to think of all those specifics of our people who just live like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, no one can pass a law that can regulate all life and potential situations. As much as this and that were mentioned here, however, it is uncontestable that there are people who actually live there and here and here, really live. They do live in a certain way. Therefore, these people are impossible to regulate in this way or in one way or another. Why? So because we have agreed here ourselves that there are many Croats who have been exiled from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from central Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have lived in Croatia for years and who are eventually returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina, trying to establish their lives, trying to organize their lives, etc. and they're in one special status. And we will not, nor will this law provide that they will be voted on, but unfortunately, even among our people, serious people she has doubts that they too may come under the influence of this law. Therefore, if there is a need to regulate this problem further then let it be regulated, to protect it. On the other hand, there are many of our volunteers who have come to Croatia since the beginning of the war, volunteered in Croatia, passed all the wars, ended up at the end of the war, and in the HVO some of them regulated their status like this, some of them. Many of them have properties in Croatia and actually live in their own way both there and here. We must have one feeling about this problem, especially from the aspect of the health group of victims of the Homeland War who should certainly have a quality level of health care etc. I agree with all those who have encouraged the systematic resolution of the issue here, so also access to the issue of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in general the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who can only be solved by adopting a strategic document in this House that will regulate these bases, and by which these issues we are talking about, which can enter that matter. In the end, I respect our new president of the state both as agent and as new president. However, it is not good for the president of the state to be informed that 20, 30 people in Odzak are forming a will in the elections in Croatia. I'm talking parliamentary elections. We must understand and accept that the Croatian citizen who is registered in Croatia has the right to be somewhere else at that time of election and has the right to vote Arsene as he wishes, you understand. And then you say that 30 votes fell in Odjak. Well, wait a minute, that's where the 1,500 votes fell. Therefore, let us not use situations that are even indisputable and show how controversial it is. Otherwise, we'd rather clear up these unwanted situations and never happen again so they don't needlessly and always needlessly share us, at the expense of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48463	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48464	Mr. Vice President. I answered the line, but I withdrew it because in many ways I agreed with Mr. Bagaric's presentation, and I'm now in line after Mr. Maric, but I have to correct the allegations regarding this vote in Odjak. So I told the speaker about the impact of the results on local elections that they were bigger, big, presidential that they were gone, and national that they could have influence. I took an example, presupposing that the 5th electoral unit election list on election day and the day before the election in Odzak was voted by people not really living in the 5th constituency, but who actually live in the 11th constituency and that these votes changed the result of the election. In some constituencies, the 30 votes wouldn't change that, so I didn't even mention them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48465	Thank you. Okay. No benching. But, Your Honor, you must say I am correcting and then specify what you are correcting. You didn't say that, and it turns out you didn't make anything right. It's one problem you just have to accept. We have one replica, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a colleague, Bagaric, in his presentation, also referred to the Commission's statement, Iustia et pax, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would just like to say that I think that such a statement is welcome, because Iustia et pax represents a church, and we are all a church, a people of God and a church as a segment of civil society, and it is certainly invited to act in situations of everyday life especially when legal acts are passed or when it is decided on how the people will live. I saw that statement as actually a welcome statement that entrenched this debate of ours, because both MPs on the left and right were calling for it. And I also think that the adoption of this law was only the cause of Iustii et pax to expand and publicly express his thoughts on the problem of the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who must be admitted really in a difficult position what is here tirelessly, so I could say in all my sermons the Bishop Komarica also speaks when coming to Croatia. I've heard it countless times. I think that is why it is also the role of us as people's representatives to express that concern for every one of our Croatian men no matter where he lives and to do everything possible to make our Croatian people's lives as high as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48467	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48468	Well, I don't want it to feel like I was someone who thought it wasn't good that the bishops called. No, I also welcome every takeover of our bishops and especially when it is not known to me in, indeed, the answer to certain questions that are vital to life, such as this Croat in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I said that in the performance of the bishop on Croatian television, what is said is what is further, be careful what is not true. I mean, I have to say it's not true, but it can further confuse people on the ground. So, if people hear that we're doing something here, and we're doing something, we're hiding something, we'll bring something quickly, like this, like that. So I'm talking about this law being passed in other readings, then on them more influences will be that doubt, will have negative influences than any law that is passed. You understand? So that's what I'm talking about. I am talking about the need for communication with the bishop, and we also need to know that the church also allows, not to allow, but to encourage laymen, members of its church and to assume, within the framework of its duties, both responsibility and certain matters. And that's why I really welcome the busyness, but I also call for better communication and there should never be any noise in that communication between us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48469	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It is not acceptable for someone to vote in the local elections without staying there. It is not acceptable for someone to stay in Zagreb, work, stay, and that because of avoiding the 18% cut, they have a fictitious residence in Brdovac or Laduč where the cut is not paid. It is not acceptable for anyone to be fictitious, while staying on land to report a residence or residence on islands and use certain privileges and therefore. And it is not acceptable, too, that someone is fictitiously applying to the area of special social care and thus providing himself with what does not belong to him. And this bill will certainly contribute to removing these negativitys. But there are also many who have reported residences, and they do not stay there, and they have arisen from war problems, refugee problems, exiles and the like. And of course most of these apply to Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And logical then is the concern of the Croats what will happen after the law is applied. So if, for example, the Association of Hotelers is socially acceptable that it publicly influences the unevaluated value of land in the conversion of tourist companies into basic capital and still acts publicly that it must be free of charge and become owners, then even more justified is the concern of Croats what will become of their status after the application of this law. And it is clear that by applying this law, no one will lose what is most important, and that is citizenship and all that comes from it. But it should also be said that he would lose certain social rights that he had based on his registered residence. It's something that's undeniable and Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that the Republic of Croatia will maintain ties, interests, protect the rights of all Croats around the world, and especially parts of the Croatian people in other countries, provide them with maximum care and protection. As a result, I also have an understandable reaction and a church that has shown concern that Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina have started a more numerous emigration from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatia because of the existing loss of social rights. But I can't help but get a personal impression, that church attitude would be much more credible if I didn't have it, to understand a certain presence of a political activity of former political circles from former communist diplomacy. If anyone has cared for the interests of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina for centuries then it is the Catholic Church. If anyone deserves why they survived in these areas throughout history, and this difficult history, let's not forget just 5 centuries of the Ottoman Empire, then it's the Catholic Church. And of course she is concerned that both the Croats and the Catholic Church are concerned that not somehow by applying the new law does not worsen the social status of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it does not force them in another way. History has played with Croats, history has played with Croats around the world, scattered into diaspora. Political and economic migration has been haunted worldwide. By playing the powers they shared that nation one equally valuable in two parts by measuring where there would be a border, a tragic way so that they placed a cannon on a hill in Imotski so where toss the ball there would be a border. All of this was tolerated by the Croatian people and therefore needed and understood. And they were the first when Croatia was self-sustaining to help, they took both weapons and defended Croatia, they sent financial aid around the world, they were even deceived into acting at the bank, and the Croatian Bank and so on, and they never lost love for Croatia. That's why it saddens me to see only 12 of us, 13 of us here when it comes to this subject, and everyone leaves the Parliament. They didn't deserve to be treated like that. At the same time, while they were constantly showing love for Croatia, even yesterday I hear a statement from the president, Prof. Josipovic, who said that regional chauvinism and impatience were common to these people. That's not allowed. But the Republic of Croatia has helped, helped and will help Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But this assistance needs to be more transparent, it needs to find an institutional framework that will be more effective, which will be more effective and which will deliver better results than has been so far. And certainly by passing such a law, it is necessary to look for models in which to make up for that no social rights should be reduced, no threat to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that this will be found and that nothing in this law will diminish such rights, but that even better, more optimal model will be found for helping Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as setting up a university in Mostar, financing the university, but that aid is not in a way to open warehouses throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and to help entrepreneurs sell trade and their products to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to bring fruit, vegetables and stay in debt and do not pay from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The biggest help for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina when I look from the point of view of the economy is that entrepreneurs from Croatia, who care about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, show it by direct investment and opening up the factory there. Only from production can the Croatian people live in Croatia and abroad. In Croatia, the unemployed 300 thousand people, it is a huge problem, a social problem. Well, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats are still in worse shape, and a German philosopher said no one has invented anything better to keep a man in one enthusiasm, in joy, in energy from good work. No job, no life. Without a job, neither will Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but if there are no Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina neither will Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I must point out once more. I have heard more about the negativity against the organisation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and criticism at the expense of the Croat community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, than at the expense of Republika Srpska that threatens Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty. Unfortunately, that's a fact. And I say this all, although away from my original theme of economy for only one reason, because I feel love for every Croat wherever he is, and I will always experience Croats wherever they live, and those in Bosnia and Herzegovina and around the world, and in Croatia as two wings of the same doors that must be opened and closed always together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48471	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a short break of 5 hours, and at least 66% of the time is a debate on, to express the situation or position of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina in Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croatia. For this reason, although I did not mean to talk about it in an individual debate, I would like to make my position clear once again, which I hope the majority of the Croatian public agrees with, and most of the representatives here, regardless of which party they were in. And that is that for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the best thing to do is that they have no influence on which party and which politics in the government in the Republic of Croatia and to make sure that any party and any policy on them will take care of them equally well. And that, Mr. Bagarić mentioned national interests, is actually true for every country and its national interests, so it should also apply to the Republic of Croatia. By changing government in America, France, Germany does not change much foreign policy. This should also be the case in the Republic of Croatia. And that is why today, we on the agenda, in this draft agenda, have two agenda points that talk about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think they have reached a consensus of parliamentary parties. And therefore, as far as the foreign policy issue is concerned, there is obviously no big dispute. Dispute and different views occur when we start to see Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as an internal political issue. Among other things, in the process of amending the Constitution, one of the supporting things is the right to vote, i.e. the way to be precise in the diaspora vote, of course 80 of them and some percent of them talk about Croatian citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now it's actually talking about the right to vote in the local elections, and it's up to you to keep a record of your residence. As far as I'm concerned, I mentioned in the club's presentation, the Vrgorca example, I'm quite certain that people who live across the border have for some reason a registered residence and would not come to the elections themselves but are responsible for their coming to the elections or blame those who expect them to vote for it, and then threatens and blackmails actually force people to come there and vote perhaps against their conscience. And if I made a mistake in advance, I apologize, but that's what I heard. As far as my colleague Bagaric's remarks are concerned, I will repeat in my debate, so I was referring to the vote of people who have the right to vote, no doubt the right to vote, because of the residences that have the ID card in Slavonski Brod or Vinkovci, Županja, who really do not live there, and they would vote for the 11th and not for the 5th constituency. And if 2,000 people voted more for the 11th constituency then there'd be six MPs from the 11th constituency, so is five. And I suppose that more than 2,000 people with this voting right, therefore indisputable voting law, and I am not talking about double voting, but really just voting in the second constituency, so that more than 2,000 people who really live in BiH and have the identity card of the Republic of Croatia voted in Croatia for regular constituency and thus reduced the number of MPs from the 11th constituency by 1, and in this case affected the allocation of mandates in the 5th constituency. That's what I said to Mr. Bagaric, and there's really no dispute about it that we can disagree on. Now, the question arises how will basically solve this problem because there was very little debate about it. So, if there's a general agreement that some people are in the residence records somewhere, and they shouldn't be there, and they don't want to log out themselves, then it's certainly someone, if they want to implement this law, it's absolutely certain that a state body will do it. The proposal of this law is that it is done by the police in administrative procedure and of course now we come to the question of how much is it actually in accordance with the Constitution? As much as human rights are respected, etc., and this is a rather sensitive matter that the Constitutional Court has already debated once, and in my view has brought a rather liberal interpretation that you can about have a residence where you will, as you will, and when you will. Which doesn't necessarily have to be bad, but for these reasons, the exercise of the electoral right in the local elections is primarily due to an animosity that shouldn't actually be present. It will indeed be interesting to see when and how this law will come into discussion in another reading. I would say that we actually agreed here that some things should be changed and that we were mostly judging phenomena, and we tried to save or protect people. It's actually an old steamer back in the day. But I wonder how we're actually going to solve this problem. How will actions be carried out that will be assigned to some citizens a second residence because no one should even be left without a residence? And in particular, how will human beings be allowed to enjoy the rights that come out of their dwellings? For example, which is why the number of users of social rights from the Republic of Croatia and in the Republic of Croatia would not extend to all Croatian citizens, so that we know how much we spend and if this is our national interest, I have nothing against reducing people in Croatia, Caricing, something for 100 kuna, and then dividing to all Croatian citizens if this is the politics of the Republic of Croatia in what way you keep Croats in BiH. It's a better solution and a more transparent solution than this right now. Because now this solution actually we're sending a message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who didn't report their residence to the Republic of Croatia, and they could, you couldn't handle it, who did it to you?- I'm sorry. You should, you could, how were the others. And that's not good again. And then MPs from the 11th constituency come into a strange situation that they must defend the voters of other election units, because this law applies to people who have a residence in Croatia who do not vote in the 11th electoral unit, in order to in some way not to say justify their work in the Croatian Parliament, but to show themselves as protectors of national interests in the BiH Election Corps for some other elections in BiH. And I would not want to go into conflict with the two HDZs in BiH. Therefore, I would not like to continue to engage in this debate. A colleague, Lugaric, mentioned the issue of harmonisation of the law due to changes in the number of voters in individual election units. She mentioned the issue of compliance of the Law on Election Units with the Law on Elections where it says that in one constituency can therefore be the difference of 5% of voters, and between 5th and 10th of the constituency, or 9th, I'm not sure which one it is, is 27% of the difference. Of course, it has some other fundamental consequences, but that information is not correct. Because by the end of the election, we don't know how many voters there are in which constituency because there are a large number of voters who have decided to take a citizen ballot before the 12th election vote, so to speak, and thus to increase the number of voters in some constituencies. I think the solution in a small modification of the electoral system is that the number of voters does not affect that one vote in Croatia does not apply equally in all parts of Croatia except, of course, the right of national minorities. So it's something that doesn't get into this debate. In a way that, before everyone else, firstly, the electoral units are modified a little bit, that they correspond to the county borders, that they are not exactly equal but roughly equal. To avoid choosing the same number of MPs and, for example, for American presidential elections, a body decides, in accordance with changes in the number, how many legislators, or the case of an electorate, will choose from which constituency. So, not wanting this issue to come down to electoral arithmetic and geometry, which is also the main motive in the proposer's explanation, I would like to call, of course, on the basis of the amendment of this law on the basis of a proposal to conduct a broad public debate on this law before the second reading. So, to look at all aspects, and these national, vis-a-vis external-political interests of the Republic of Croatia, this internal so that it does not happen that someone from Gajnica must now go to Treshnyvka because of parking areas and everything else. So, to see what a set of laws still needs to be amended to ensure that this system can be addressed in an adequate and sound manner by consensus of all parties and all political groups, including representatives of the Croatian people from BiH. In this sense, I look forward to the discussion in the second reading and, of course, I look forward to your creativity to reconcile all these issues and dilemmas and look forward to another reading to see what you will suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48473	Thank you. Replications? There isn't. Mr. Representative Rade Bosnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48474	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are today discussing this law and, as has already been pointed out many times by several colleagues, the most debate is being held and the most debate is being taken on Croatians from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is that an accident? This law seeks to resolve all shortcomings and what is numbered as reasons in the proposed text of the law and a large number of persons not actually living at the registered address, the inability to find persons registered by the court and police, abuse of social and other rights arising from the basis of the residence, as well as the Constitutional Court's assessment of the unconstitutional nature of certain provisions of the law which is in force. The Republic of Croatia needs to address this issue, to edit this area in the best way to satisfy the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. I don't think there's any doubt about it, and I believe that no one in this House has expressed such a doubt either, nor has he spoken of it as such. And of course I absolutely agree with that, because I know that the state must have a quality database about its citizens and citizens must have a precise list of voters, but of course it must also have because of the needs of all other authorities of the state administration. I advocate a truly quality legal solution that will be able to be quickly and effectively eliminated from the practice of all abuses that occur in relation to the residence. Such abuses are true, and today we were able to hear both arguments and such examples. And those abuses must really end. But is the proposed law a solution to all these open issues that have been raised here as a problem and I wonder if this law will really work out in the right way. And this means that both the Republic of Croatia and its citizens are satisfied with this solution. I have to admit, I'm not sure about that. Furthermore, the law must ensure that citizens are consumed by the constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms related to freedom of movement. I am afraid, by the proposed text of the law, that it is significantly intruding into the area of human rights when it comes to freedom of choice of residence and freedom of movement, which is regulated in Article 32. A constitution that says that freedom cannot be limited because of the fact that a citizen has no evidence, for example. on employment or the real source of income, which is confirmed by the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2000. In this regard, it has been pointed out that the freedom of movement of persons is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union, and is therefore indicated that the need to review the provisions of the proposed law in the light of the European directives governing this area. If this proposed text of the law were to be applied tomorrow as it is now proposed, of course I believe that it will not be, it would refer to one group of Croatian citizens, because Article 7(6) is exempt from persons who are on temporary work abroad, which is proven by work permit, residence permit or confirmation of the employer, which is, in my opinion, today and today's circumstances of this work very questionable what it means to be temporary work. Then persons covered by the programme of return and care of exiles and refugees and displaced persons, etc. Therefore, this law is selective already in its purpose and according to its standards. It sets out the principle of inequality before the law contrary to the provisions of Article 14(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This law, given the introduction of new relations in national tissue, could cause far-reaching damage, consequences at national policy level in the future. If this law were passed the way it was proposed in such content, it would undoubtedly be harmful to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've heard so many observations here on this matter. And I would like to say, the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina who have residence in the Republic of Croatia and by safeguarding, or by ensuring the protection of these social rights, we would like to address this issue. I have to tell you I'm not sure about that at all. I believe that it is not a quantity and is not the quality of the social rights that Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina have with the application of their residence in Croatia, that it is not what determines our fears and fears about possible further emigration from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatia, but rather about the fact that the Croats are in the situation in which we are in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this fear is more about this than about the rights that are exercised in the Republic of Croatia in terms of residence or residence rights. Therefore, given this fact, it is certain, and this is what is happening now, only that the law has been announced by people signing out of Bosnia and Herzegovina to protect and protect the residences of Croatia and protect their fundamental only source of existence. And what we're talking about is the goal of seeking and wishing that the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina don't spill out, that they don't move out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we are not talking about how social rights should be regulated or what the Constitution guarantees and guarantees Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as Croats in general. So our goal is to protect against the possible outflow of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then if that were to happen, there is no need to speak in what position the Croatian people would enter Bosnia and Herzegovina. And don't rephrase or tell us that's not possible, it's not true, etc. Yes, gentlemen. The Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina have indeed expressed large figures. I don't even want to believe them. I'm one of those guys who's kind of explored the possibilities on the ground, it's really too much of a figure. The expected departure from Bosnia and Herzegovina should take place and less than 50% of that expected we are gentlemen in the national minority, the national minority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You don't have to doubt it at all. Clearly, this law neither treats the residence in Bosnia and Herzegovina nor anywhere else, nor treats anything else. The residence in Croatia is therefore being treated but the way in which Croatians are treated and in view of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina will decide to seek their safety in the Republic of Croatia and thus leave Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has been pointed out here several times, I will repeat it, displaced and avoided about 100,000 just from Republika Srpska. We expect to return at least half of them, although our colleagues in Republika Srpska say they expect 80%. A law like this would absolutely be, we could forget it. And not to mention, of course, the defenders, the developed soldiers, members of HV and HVO who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia but live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All or most of them, the vast majority of them are already when we're talking life in credit arrangements for many years and all sorts of other things that they've entered into. Therefore, they will surely make it difficult for me to step away from it, return to Bosnia and Herzegovina and live there. Then there are students, border areas due to unadjusted language, Croatian language through curricula and programmes, because of language, history, etc. So children do not have the ability to learn, study Croatian history, Croatian language, etc. And a lot of things we can't mention here in this short time, but I just want to say one more time that what I'm sure none of us want can really happen. And finally, I think we need laws and strategies for the return of Croats to BiH, not regulations that will make us afraid of further emigration. It seems to me that it really needs a procedure in several legal areas to resolve the area of residence in the best way and in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48475	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48476	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would rather sign two debates, Mr. Lek's debate and Mr. Maric's debate, but here's the time I've been waiting to get a few minutes, I'll just say a few things. I understand the need and intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to update the residence records and lists of voters as quickly as possible, knowing that thousands and thousands of citizens of the Republic of Croatia are sometimes more often resident in certain residences. There are several groups of citizens to whom the law in question applies. One of these groups is also Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the diaspora who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia besides some other countries. Sadly, some colleagues today could conclude wrongly that double residence is being debated today. This law does not treat the double residence and I personally believe that every one of the Croats who has achieved the Constitution and the positive legal regulations of residence in the Republic of Croatia has the right to retain residence in other countries. I also had opportunities to talk to a person who has three residences these days. He is a citizen of the Republic of Austria, has a residence, is a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina has a residence and is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia also has a residence. In the Republic of Austria, no one is causing him any trouble, and today I see that there is a big crowd about it that the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina will be able to have their residence in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Bosnia and Herzegovina also does not cause problems for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina because of their residence in Croatia. I also had a chance to talk to people who have been living in the Republic of Croatia for decades who have a personal card of chips, therefore also have citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And when I asked some people why you took your ID card, you lived 40 years or 50 years in Croatia, they told me we wanted to vote in Bosnia and Herzegovina because without ID cards, you are not on the voter's list in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, so much for a double residence. I would also like to make it clear that the vast majority of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina were in need of residence in the Republic of Croatia in order to achieve certain social rights, which are primarily the right to work, the right to pension, treatment, child's allowance and the right to be pregnant. Of course, those social rights would have to be met by law. I also use the opportunity to publicly condemn and fence myself against those if there are any illegal means of achieving certain social rights. I would also like to present in my debate some thoughts and fears of individual groups that may be under pressure to amend and supplement this law. Fears arising from Article 7 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law which confers excessive powers on police administrations or stations which may, after official duty, cancel or initiate a check-out procedure for a person who is found not to be resident at a specific address. It is known that one large number of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina live on one foot in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the other in the Republic of Croatia and have a double residence. Because of the fear of acquired rights, I am convinced that many of them are considering leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina permanently, which would be devastating. What will happen to the people with disabilities of the Homeland War if they start losing their social rights in the field of health insurance just because he's a police officer, only because a police officer doesn't find him at some point in time at a certain address. The law is passed in order to obey and obey, so the erasure will be. What will happen to those Croats who live in border areas and cross the border every day because they work in the Republic of Croatia where they have a place of residence because they could otherwise become employees and really live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am afraid that they will decide on the Republic of Croatia and leave Bosnia and Herzegovina to keep their jobs because otherwise they will be deleted from the record. The vast majority of these people do not have a residence as some political parties interpret it, directly influenced the election result in local elections, and unfortunately here today it is often potentiated. Several hundred Croats have been potentiated who eventually cross the border on the occasion of local elections, but no one treats hundreds of buses that come from other areas and also directly affect election results. Which will therefore be the case with Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who in the border area have arable land in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, I'm going to get Posavina. All of it wasn't a limit once. To achieve incentives, the right to encourage a large number of farmers took up residence in County and other border areas in the Republic of Croatia, or along the border. Will they be removed from the record just because they have the right to encourage because they are engaged in agriculture? What will happen to seasonal workers, Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina? I would like to dedicate a few words to a particularly sensitive group, these are Croats returning to Posavina and central Bosnia from the Republic of Croatia. I personally advocate their return and create conditions for their sustainable return. Rare are return points that I did not personally visit by acting in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These amendments and additions to the Law on residence and residence are treated as persons who have permanently left the Republic of Croatia. Will they also be deleted from the record, will the returner of the Croatian defender be treated in Doboj, Derventi or Banja Luka? I understand that certain social rights, apart from the law, are guaranteed by those who have left the Republic of Croatia more permanently than Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And they should, but let's not forget to ensure the rights of the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there's a lot of questions that ask for answers, there's a lot of fears, there's a lot of dilemma, there's a lot of what if. I understand that this law cannot answer all these questions. He treats an area that is not related to social income, but his adoption can be directly questioned as to what if it is. I therefore expect that between these two readings, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will find opportunities and leave the rights of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina unbound for residence by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48477	Thank you. And Madam Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. Every law, every amendment and addition of a law when we start to talk about the injustices being committed, if it creates new injustices, and if it solves old injustices with new injustices, is not good at its substance. If in one circle of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of where they are from, he felt that this law was unfair to them, then he had to do otherwise and I must say. First of all, the issue of residence could be made more transparent that you gave an annex as it was resolved in other countries of Europe. No matter what you know, some people know, it's a large number of citizens and citizens who care about it don't know. Secondly, this law is the result of the long-standing policy of the Republic of Croatia and of the political structures of the Republic of Croatia compared to Bosnia and Herzegovina in general, compared to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I must say, no matter how much this tone of our debate is, and I would say even surprisingly civilized, it is important to be aware that for years the Croatian people's Corps in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the question of how to organise was the way the Croatian political elite has dealt with some of its problems and its issues. And that was not fair to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Citizens and citizens who have reported their residences in the Republic of Croatia, and come from Bosnia and Herzegovina in part and did not know that it was not regular and that it is not regular because it has no right to those residences. But I wonder how we'll solve the question of those who knew that, so they used those people who came out of their troubles. They came from trouble. No one changes their country for good, no one leaves because it's good. He's leaving the cause of the migration that in this case was war and other types of migration as accompanying elements of war events in this area. So there are people as we hear it here, they have 30 people reported. Who are these people in Croatia who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who made it possible, in what way and why. This law does not say anything about how they will be treated. The law therefore concerns changes, concerns citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina who have residence, concerns but also stays in the Republic of Croatia. This includes all those who rent apartments from which the state does not collect taxes, in which the tenants who are staying here today live, are there tomorrow, moving around Zagreb with borderless movements for these or those reasons. But the state here wants to regulate what's understandable because it's a matter and a budget. However, it is essential that we return that this is part of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union and that we are obliged to resolve the part concerning voting rights. In that, I must say, today we have someone maybe even a unisonic thinking. It was always SDP policy if it wasn't right. Maybe we could handle it with the good will of the political elites, maybe we could solve it. We're starting with good intentions. What I would like to say is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is ahead of the elections, elections are in the 10th month, ladies and gentlemen. The latest report on Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe at the end of January is worrying about anyone who has had issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the region, relations in the region. Each report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the pre-accession negotiations contains one part of the relationship with neighbouring countries, not only Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that question is a permanent issue regarding policy in this area. And you don't have to say that suddenly one morning it came out, it's there. It's a sad thing that in this law, I will always be afraid of the law that brings us these solutions, the bill of law as it is in this case. The decision to log out, watch out for colleagues and colleagues, who once had a raid, who once experienced a bonding experience for radiators, who once experienced people leaving at night and not coming back must be concerned about Mr. Buconjic over such a decision to log out from the address of the registered residence, etc. on official duty at the request of the Authority of the State Administration. There were words that the neighbors would testify. Well, isn't that the way to the police state? What are we gonna... send them to addresses they know about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are we gonna send people to spy on? Isn't there some legal solution that we're two grand. It was a return and a complaint from Croatia that it had not informed the citizens who had left Croatia that they could return, that there were programmes. So it went through NGOs, and it went through consular representations in neighbouring countries to let people know that they can solve their issue. Can't you predict a deadline in which a number of citizens will realize that something about it is wrong, which will be able to log out on its own. We're not going into repression right now. So they're all criminalized here, all under the auspices of the state. Well, I'm disgusted by the night raids and the research of who lives and doesn't exist at the time. That's what I'm afraid of. Then it is the same question for people who live half a year in continental Croatia, half a year at sea. They'll find them once too. They won't find them once. I think it's mean to the rule of law, or I hope that the legislator after this debate for a second reading changes. Also, I want to say this. So, elections, elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the tenth month of this year. Such a debate without the inclusion of various communities of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina is not good. It will create a climate for political powermakers who may not be the ones who want a good solution. And the last time I spoke in the Council of Europe, I said that political powers in Bosnia and Herzegovina must know that they cannot look for solutions for Bosnia and Herzegovina in other countries' capitals, so they were neighbouring ones, they were not what they were but in the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this proposal for change, I still have to ask something, Article 2. He says, "The residence is the place... with intent." I'm not a lawyer. I just know when a crime with premeditated premeditation is judged that it's a painful process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How does this intention express itself? And please tell me if the people who came to school in one place, ask the students today and they are staying in Zagreb or somewhere else at a university center, whether they only came to school or intend to settle. Of course, of course, the largest number wants to settle. So with intent, this is so questionable in implementation and in defining who will evaluate. It's like a free composition, it's an essay. It's my intention to go to school and stay where I'm going to school, because I think I'm going to have a better life, because I think I'm going to be better able to get my kids to go to school tomorrow. So it's all unspeakable. What is a key question today is how ready the government is to open the debate really, really debate. And it's no wonder Pax is still reacting. At the end of Bosnia, the Franciscans held Silver despite all efforts to spread out and change territories, peoples, etc. So Bosnia and Herzegovina is not just a question of the international relations of the Republic of Croatia. That is the question and history of this new age that has done many injustices. Therefore, I would like this second reading to come in thoughtfully, if it included all the possible elements, all the possible groups that this concerns. Because I'm afraid this river is fast and it's rolling over that river, it's carrying everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48479	Thank you. Four of one water of freedom for freedom! Final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48480	Thank you very much. I'm sure such a small number of MPs don't mean that they've fallen into a sudden interest in this subject. It was a much larger number of MPs, but certainly the interest remained very high because this really is a very important topic for the entire Croatian public and for the Croatian state. What MP Perić Vac said was really a debate I would say was correct, it was quality. However, some discussions have shown either a certain bias or even an ignorance of either this law or other laws. There were questions about what would happen to the homeless, to those who would wipe out. These people will not be deleted anywhere because already in the existing law, Article 3 states what will happen to them, that the Ministry of the Interior will establish their place of residence. So for those people who would eventually be erased, and not living somewhere else, there is a solution to the existing law. It was a concern, or even a question of the constitutionality of this law, or of the provision that a person must also prove that he has truly guaranteed living conditions in that address, so he calls for the ruling of the Constitutional Court of Two Thousands. However, I will only warn that there is one different ruling of the Constitutional Court which has not been abolished, and I will quote it which says: "According to the provisions of Article 32(2) of the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, anyone legally located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, has the right to move freely and choose a residence." Therefore, freedom of movement and choice of residence assumes that a citizen in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is legally located, and it is the contested law that regulates the issue of residence and residence of citizens, so that the duty of citizens in the prescribed cases and in a prescribed manner declares their residence, i.e. the place to no extent constitutes an unconstitutional restriction on their freedom and movement and choice of residence. In fact, no provision of the contested law restricts the right of a citizen to free movement, not to choose residence or residence, but only to prescribe a condition under which a citizen can apply his or her place of residence in some place, which is not a restriction, but merely a necessary assumption that he or she might be resident, thus not restricting freedom of movement. This is the ruling of the Constitutional Court which otherwise speaks from the Constitutional Court's decision on whether the state can regulate the issue of residence in a way that requires citizens to meet the conditions of its application, otherwise they would find themselves in a situation of lawlessness so that everyone can apply to the address they want and that no one can even check it out, nor can they challenge it, so it could happen to each of us that tomorrow, someone logs in to our home address because the MUP has no right to ask for any proof that he really has a normal living conditions in that address he wants to apply. It was the same, I think Mr. Bauk said, but someone else said from the SDP club that some 30 votes had decided or might have influenced the election of MPs in the 5th constituency. But I'll also say one counterargument. In Beli Manastir, the mayor was elected with 26 votes of surplus, the mayor of SDP, and in Beli Manastir, we have 9,000 inhabitants, and 11 thousand voters. So there are different situations in different parts of Croatia, and we have indeed tried to keep this law in mind that the law cannot be ethnically selective, but that the law introduces order in the residence records in order to make this record fit as much as possible in an objective, real state in the Republic of Croatia. Of course we don't have the illusion that it won't be possible to absolutely fix the residence records because people move daily, people move daily, move, move, leave, come. We won't be able to track whether each of them has changed in real life and recorded in records, not only of the MUP, but also of the other records that every legal, organized state keeps. And what I finally wanted to say was whether this law was just a fig leaf, because I said there would be no mass erasure. I said there wouldn't be mass erasure in that sense that there wouldn't be any erasure in a way that in one day a few dozen, or hundreds of thousands of people would be wiped out without carrying out the proper procedure. I personally don't know how many people have a fictitious or inadequate residence. I hope no one else knows that, even though there are several thousand to several hundred thousand statements here today. Whether there are such cases, and how many of them there are, we will be able to establish only after the proceedings have been carried out, in which we will have to take into account the human and constitutional rights of every citizen, and therefore I said there will be no mass erasure. Whether or not there will be people who will be found to have fictitiously or erroneously reported their residence, we will be able to determine this only after we have conducted our actions. I really can't even say how much it's going to be, if it's a couple thousand, a couple tens of thousands or a couple hundred thousand. This is too serious a question to bid on such figures as to how many such persons there are, because today's debate has repeatedly repeated that this is a serious issue and that such a question of constitutional and human rights and freedom cannot be played and cannot be handled without taking into account the seriousness of such an institute as residence. In the end, there were many good suggestions that should be considered at the very least. I can't say that we'll accept them, but in any case we need to think about them, and I'm sure that by the second reading, this law can be changed to a certain extent, it can be fixed. What is most important to me is that it may be removed in a clearer, more unequivocal way by this fear that it will be the cause of life’s problems and drama for people in those cases where it is not justified. I said, I'll finish it. I personally believe that these records of residences, i.e. their discrepancies with real life above all, are not to be said exclusively, but above all the consequences of war and porn and everything that happened in the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War. These are very serious consequences and for their removal we must be very serious, very responsible, in order not to do new damages, new problems. And we will also try in the final version of the law, as much as possible to take care of just not making new problems and new damages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48481	Thank you. Correction of an exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'll try to hold on to the maximum... I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Mr. Secretary of State who said that the election case in the White Manastir is counterargument, a counterargument of what I was saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's an incorrect quote. It's just an argument in favor of what I was saying, because as the old folk says, it's not a folk proverb, I like Plato, and I prefer the truth, if our victory is that way too, I'm not glad it happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48483	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48484	Even with a less rigid interpretation than the Law of Residency. This was in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48485	Given the late debate, it wouldn't be probative to discuss whether it is or not. There's no replica on, so now we're going to conclude the debate. To vote when conditions are met. So on Tuesday, 23rd at 9:30 with debate Report on the work of the Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War from 2005 to 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-19-0.u48486	Thank you very much. ... On behalf of the representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I warmly congratulate you on your desire to be successful in the conduct of this high and honorable duty. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the debated agenda points. Please, we've established a quorum, no need. First, we are going to propose a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens. This was the first reading, P.Z. No. 502. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: first, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage and vote on the conclusion. The result? The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 105 votes for, 3 abstentions and 2 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. We're continuing at the 16th session. I'd like to say that, as we said, these four days, we'd be doing something a little longer in the evening. Not too long, but a little longer and so that we can work a few points of the agenda more since they've been quite expensive, new ones keep coming. So, we move to, as announced - The Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War report from 2005 to 2009 The Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War submitted this report on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted at the 11th session, held on 3 July 2009. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War on 14 December 2009 also provided the addition of the report, the financial part. You received the proposal by mail. The government also delivered an opinion on the report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr Ante Nazor, Director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Center of the Homeland War. Here you go.
