ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54516	I'm opening a session of ladies and gentlemen representatives. On the agenda - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2009 The applicant, Advocate for Persons with Disabilities, who delivered this report on the basis of Article 17. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. I'd like the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities, Mrs. Anku Slonjšak, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54517	Thank you. Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Seks, respected MPs and MPs, and respected representatives of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities, associates. Thank you for inviting me to submit a report on the work of the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities for 2009. The Office acts under the Ombudsman Act for persons with disabilities adopted in October 2007, which entered into force on 1 January 2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The lawyer is obliged to submit a report on his work to the Croatian Parliament once a year. This reporting period for the first time covers the entire year of work of the office established on 1 July 2008. In 2009, the office continued to employ employees, and today, with the parties in the office, they are working alongside me as the lawyer of two deputies, deputies and 4 professional advisers, while three employees work in general jobs. I particularly stress this because the office is responsible for the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, and as its headquarters in Zagreb every day we testify that insufficient coverage of the needs of citizens from other areas of the Republic of Croatia. During the period covered by the report in accordance with the work cycle, the office acted on cases both foreclosed by persons with disabilities and their families, associations, and institutions working for the benefit and interest of both persons with disabilities and children with disabilities during the period. In many cases, because of their health condition and difficulty in movement, people were unable to come to the office personally and to complain or to give the initiative, or to inform themselves of their rights, and employees of such parties often repeatedly consulted on the phone. Sometimes it was about achieving rights, convenience or compensation, but often it was about intervention and agreements with the competent authorities on the possibility of solving the difficulties faced by those persons. The largest number of cases concerned the area of social protection, then the area of pension insurance, labour and employment, accessibility, and the area of justice. These systems bring about the highest rights that the state seeks to compensate for the damage of persons with disabilities and their families. The maximum number of complaints, consultations and interventions are currently related to the area of social protection because they are achieving the highest number of their rights and the needs arising from disability are being achieved through this system. However, such a large number of complaints are also one of the indicators of inequality of the criteria for the exercise of rights in the social protection system in different areas of the Republic of Croatia. Of the other areas, cases related to education and education, health care were equally represented, followed by the rights of disabled soldiers, property-legal relations, discrimination, and cases related to various forms of violence, as well as the field of sport. The largest number of cases were handled in the Zagreb area, as well as in Zagreb and Split-Dalmatia County. The reason why most people with disabilities live in these areas, but there is also the most intense activity of civil society, so people through their associations are better acquainted with their rights and thus when they are violated. The minimum number of cases concerned the area of Lika-Senjska, i.e. Požega-Slavon County. These areas not only have poor information for people with disabilities about their rights, but they have made accessibility more difficult both in terms of reducing mobility and availability of communication funds. From these examples, it is a worrying fact that many people are not even aware that the conditions in which they live are below the minimum, that they have the right to seek to educate themselves in the most appropriate way, work in an environment that would minimise their damage with its own adaptation, and that they have the same access to all services as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You can see here especially the difference between urban environments and rural environments. With individual complaints, the office has launched a number of initiatives and activities to improve the status, i.e. persons with disabilities, as best as possible. We visited more than 9 counties in which we tried to present the role and work of the office, establish and encourage inter-resorial cooperation, and we sought to cooperate with national alliances and regional associations as much as possible to inform people with disabilities about the work of the office and why the office was founded. The office attended numerous meetings that organised both persons with disabilities and competent institutions, but also the office itself in cooperation with other domestic or international partners. The Office carried out a number of studies related to accessibility, employment and a questionnaire addressed to the alliances to analyse the situation of persons with disabilities as best as possible. International cooperation has been established and experience and examples of good practice have been exchanged with representatives of international institutions who have recognised the office as a place where they can obtain information about the state of the right of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Office representatives visited the media to get to know the public about the existence and role of the office. The Office is increasingly recognised by the media as a place where relevant opinions and attitudes can be obtained in cases of infringement of the rights of persons with disabilities and any other issues related to this particular problem. During this reporting period, we warned that the engagement of media to help people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties does not always have a positive outcome for them. We commended media that are aware and engaged in reporting on this sensitive complex topic, but also warned the media whose approach to the processing of the topic indicates unprofessionalism and the damage that such actions can cause. It encourages the fact that more and more reporting on people with disabilities is as valuable and capable individuals from whose courage and carrying on with everyday life’s difficulties we can all learn something. The Office has also carried out an examination of the conditions in the institutions in which they are located, educated or working persons with disabilities. The general conclusion is that the conditions in these institutions are acceptable and despite the problems with the lack of equipment and the lack of professional staff are moving towards the latest knowledge of the concerns most strongly advocated by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Republic of Croatia has signed and ratified and which is just in force. I especially need to highlight the position of people with intellectual difficulties who spend most of their lives in institutions that violates their right to an independent life according to their capabilities and abilities. The need for deinstitutionalisation and the creation of conditions for their life in the community with support has been recognised. However, the practical approach has not yet been made to implement measures that would ensure a more dignified life for these persons, as prescribed by the Convention of which the Republic of Croatia and its signatories are. The office also monitored national strategies, policies, international documents. In addition to complaints, for the purpose of obtaining insight into the situation, the office has just submitted and requested a request and a report of the indication of the applicant of the measures in the National Strategy for Equalisation of opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015 and based on this analysis, we can tell the data received that it is visible how in all areas and cases the action has been carried out or started with the implementation of a series of activities. However, the implementation indicators of the strategy are not sufficiently accurate so that the reports of the bodies in charge of their implementation are too general, without clear indicators of the level of implementation of the individual measure achieved. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Advocate General, which requires that the Ombudsman participates in the process of drawing up draft draft rules relating to the rights of persons with disabilities, has requested and sent a request to all competent institutions to notify the office of the text of those proposals in order for the Office to give its opinion when drawing up the rules concerning persons with disabilities. Just as people with disabilities expect from the office, and at the same time, we can react in time as the Law on the Ombudsman does. Despite the fact that we were not frequently informed at the time, the office made proposals for amending and supplementing a series of laws in order to ensure that attention is paid to the interests of people with disabilities. The Office also noted the problem of lack of cross-resorship cooperation and the situation in which the ministries are often acting unordinated is particularly visible in attempts to determine who are disabled, how to determine disability and accordingly regulate the rights, privileges and benefits that will make it very difficult for individuals whose physical, sensory, intellectual or mental impairments will make it possible to engage in the life of the community on an equal basis with others. In their complaints, persons with disabilities shall be made aware of which the welfare system, but also of the pension insurance system, is considered non-transparent, without clear criteria for the recognition of individual rights and consider that the assessments which determine the need for the exercise of a right are not objective and that the same conditions, i.e. the same type of disability, are not recognised. They are most affected by the fact that the current system of protection of persons with disabilities through legislation, organisations, institutions and services does not follow the individual needs of a person with disabilities, as well as the lack of systematic support both for the individual and his family when disability occurs, or for parents when they have a child with developmental difficulties. In general, the opinion also prevails that material rights are insufficient to cover the costs of precisely those arising from disability. Persons with disabilities have great difficulties in achieving health care, primarily medical rehabilitation, physical therapy and care in the house where there is a big difference again in terms of urban areas in the Republic of Croatia, the purchase of appropriate orthopaedic aids in which they often have to pay for it from personal budgets, medicines, dental protection insurance and in general about the often insufficient education of health professionals on specific health problems faced by people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. Moreover, persons with disabilities are under-represented to rights that belong to them from the basis of disability, do not know enough about how they are implemented, and in particular it is difficult for them to deal with the excessive administration of different systems and the frequent errors of their employees. The office recommends that respecting the specificity of persons with disabilities in the exercise of the right to health care is imperative, especially when it is done as I pointed out about rehabilitation, the right to care in the house, orthopedic aids. The existing normative arrangements in this regard are restrictive. Furthermore, changes in the area of infrastructure adaptation, education of healthcare professionals for working with disabled persons, in particular the removal of communication barriers, as well as the achievement of greater information from children with developmental disabilities and persons with disabilities both in maternity wards, surgical departments, traumatology, neurological departments and where individuals face for the first time the fact of permanent disability or developmental harm to the child. However, the first information and support is generally lagging behind. For people with disabilities, a high level of knowledge of all professional staff referred to through various areas of law enforcement is of great importance. We believe that even the best-designed reforms will not get the expected results if the experts who need to implement them are not educated, sensitised and professionally motivated. The social care system should start with the idea of the activity of the person himself, as soon as possible relying on the compensation system and developing a focus towards the use of services and enabling the integration of different forms and levels of services both state-owned, monetary and non-financial. It is necessary to improve the existing system of monetary rights and we expect that, in future amendments to the regulations that are to be followed, the draft social care law will be clearly visible to those who really need them and will allow the choice of measures and ways of assistance to be planned in accordance with the specific and individual needs of the person himself. In addition, cooperation between state services and service providers should be developed, and a model of contracting services at the level of the nearest user should be developed. As far as domestic violence is concerned, the situation with people exposed to domestic violence is alarming. When it comes to violence against people with disabilities, the consequences of violence are far more complex, precisely because of the intense addiction of victims and abusers who often provide the only necessary care and care. The situation makes it difficult for the absence of shelters adapted to their acceptance and housing communities in which individuals would have the opportunity to live independently with the necessary support provided. The difficulty is also insufficient education of all participants in the process of protecting victims of violence. As for education, although back in the last few years progress has been made towards inclusive education of children with developmental difficulties, we are still far from the standards of developed countries in which almost full inclusion of children with developmental difficulties is achieved in regular education systems from the earliest age to higher education. The issue of greater inclusion is not always the issue of providing funds but of the willingness, understanding and sensitisation of those who decide to do so, along with those who do so. An equal approach to education of children with disabilities today is a prerequisite for equal access to the labour market and greater independence of persons tomorrow. Educational programmes, including the very assessment of education that is the most adequate for a child with difficulties, still rely too much on the limitations and incompetence of the child as a result of his difficulties and lack of systematic and structural monitoring and development of the child’s abilities. However, even before the company, there is a great task of setting up an education support system that cannot only be limited to removing obstacles or to assistants in follow-up but includes tailored textbooks, teaching aids, tailored transport, E teaching and other forms of adaptation. More needs to be done in the development of services to support, educational and educational institutions, the development network of tailored educational institutions, respecting the principle of reasonable adaptation, strengthening the preparation of teaching teaching staff and future professors with specificities in working with children with developmental difficulties, and establishing systematic education in this regard. Employment of people with disabilities is actually about education and the main problem that has been going through this area for a long time is precisely the problem of not implementing positive legal provisions in reality. Only when people are able to do jobs that are really sought in the labour market will the incentives the state supports will gain its right to work. These incentives must be attractive to employers and their ways of achieving them must be as simplified as possible. In addition, greater efforts should be made to bring people with disabilities closer to the employer through various projects, i.e. that the employer can, at a certain short time, hire a person with disabilities without the cost of his business in order to get to know their skills, abilities and abilities, and that those persons to whom they would acquire exactly what is important, and that is what work experience is needed. A particular problem is not to implement professional rehabilitation in practice. Employers usually do not receive workers who have found professional incompetence to work, although they have been trained to do other jobs through professional rehabilitation. Such workers are fired on a commercial basis, on the grounds that the employer does not have a job to deploy the worker to. Therefore, people with disabilities rarely choose the option of professional rehabilitation and go into disability pension either because of professional or general incompetence to work. This leads to exactly what we do not want, which is that people who could qualify for other jobs and work and actively contribute to this society are more likely to retire and become a burden to the system. The pension insurance system as well as other systems face the greatest challenge of changing the access of disabled persons in terms of the requirements set before us all by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. With damage, the emphasis is shifted to the systems and support that the company needs to provide to the persons themselves, not to make them dependent on the system, but to achieve their greater independence. In order to achieve such an approach, we appeal to greater inter-resorship cooperation. Local and regional self-government units should be more engaged in the field of accessibility, and in cooperation with civil society, i.e. persons with disabilities, should work to remove all forms of non-accessibility in their field. Based on the office's insight, we need to conclude that in many areas there are no working groups that should work to gradually remove architectural communication barriers and, together with associations, establish adaptation priorities. The activities taken by the office over the past year to encourage cooperation between associations and relevant offices have led to the conclusion that failure to ensure accessibility cannot in any way justify only the lack of money. Positive examples from the environments most made to remove obstacles point to the fact that it is in these environments that the greatest sensitivity of the community is. About the fact that accessibility insurance means both for citizens with reduced mobility and for those with older people, parents with small children, persons with seasonal damages, all others with temporary difficulty in moving. The office will also advocate that access to social inclusion is achieved in the media area and that people with disabilities are not reported within specific emissions, but that they take their place along with other citizens. It is the prejudices that are largely the result of fear of different and ignorance that make life more difficult for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties more than their damage. In modern society, media can do the most to remove prejudice from the world of people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. The government of the Republic of Croatia is taking steps to improve the situation of disabled people. However, they are still insufficient. Legal regulations governing the rights of disabled persons have different definitions of disability to be aligned with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The idea of disability as defined by the Convention requires rooted changes to the views of experts, but also to persons with disabilities and their families as well as adjustments to systems that are not simple. Here, I would like to conclude this report, and I would like to emphasise that I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for its opinion on the report on the work of the office, and I hope and believe that the recommendations contained in this report will be respected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54518	I would like to thank Mrs. Anki Slonjšak, attorney for the disabled. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Committee on Gender Equality, Chairman of the Sobol Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54519	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with my associates, colleagues and colleagues. At its 34th session on 9 June, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2009. In the opening presentation, the Ombudsman presented a brief statement showing that the vision of the Ombudsman's Office is to contribute to the creation of a society of equal opportunities for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. all categories of persons with disabilities in all segments of life, and the main objective is to promote greater involvement of persons with disabilities in society, and the achievement of all the legal rights that these persons have in order to allow for their more independent and quality life. The debate followed, during which individual board members expressed satisfaction with the fact that there is an Office of Advocates for Persons with Disabilities, which points to all the extent of the problems of persons with disabilities who have been said and above all necessarily provide professional assistance. The debate further highlighted the importance of hiring people with disabilities particularly in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, and it is also necessary to adopt the Law on Personal Assistants more quickly and to allow children with developmental difficulties as high as possible. One member of the committee made an observation regarding the comments of the association "Sjay" on the report which points to the need to pay more attention to persons with mental, not just physical disorders that could be further discriminated against. The Ombudsman for disabled persons then gave an additional explanation and was asked about comments and questions during the debate. After the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion that accepts the report on the work of the Ombudsman with disabilities for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54520	Thank you. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54521	Honorable Vice President, Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities for Associates and Fellow Representatives. At its 40th session held on 26 May this year, the Labour and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2009. According to data on how the report handled the office in 962 cases, the majority of cases concerned the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities in the area of social protection, around 22.6%. Then pension insurance 11.7%, then in the field of work and employment 11.5% and in the area of accessibility around 9.5%. In the debate, the committee members assessed this report as comprehensive and objective, and supported the efforts made by the Advocate's Office to address the existing problems encountered by persons with disabilities. The opinion was given in which it is good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown itself to be a report on the work of the Advocate General in a comprehensive written opinion, as well as on the reports of the other lawyers. This points to a new positive environment in the co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Ombudsman. The committee members agree that it is necessary to reform and improve the existing social protection system, as well as the increased engagement of local and regional (regional) self-government units in the field of accessibility, as well as in other segments. The debate also noted that more efforts should be made to implement the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, and employment of persons with disabilities, and as a positive example in employment, so-called. Protective workshops. And a project to encourage more intensive inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market, carried out by the Croatian Employment Service as part of the fourth component of IPA pre-accession assistance instruments. Furthermore, the debate praised good co-operation between the Advocate's Office, the Resorship Ministry and the Associations that protect them, promoting the rights of persons with disabilities. It is also stressed in the debate that, with a good existing institutional framework, the establishment of a single body of art will contribute to the uniformity of the criteria for the exercise of rights and of all persons with disabilities. After seeing a very long and extensive debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion and to accept the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54522	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. A representative of the government. I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Vesna Škulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54523	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So since I was supposed to be the other one talking, I don't know why I put me first, but it's good. I'll take that as a principle of positive discrimination. I also welcome once again the representatives of the organizations that are present here and who are being followed, which are particularly relevant, and I think that it should especially concern all of us who raise our hands for some of the laws and when it is not necessary, that is, if we could hold back or vote against it. But let's take the turn. In front of us is a report on the work of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities for 2009, a good report in which a lot of effort has been made to show the critical points that are in some way discriminated against by persons with disabilities, which is why the Ombudsman warns us and therefore congratulates the lawyer and her associates on a well-worked job. I will immediately say that the SDP club will support this report and once again draw attention to the state of human rights of persons with disabilities in Croatia. I'll go back to the word "indication." So there's a problem. The D.A. points to that, and what does the competent institutions do about it? They usually ignore the problem or react under public pressure. We don't need to go far back into the past, let's just remember the change in the Law of Roads for which my dear colleagues raised their hands, and in a direct way again participated in the discrimination of 300 blind people, based on the acquisition of disability, through various documents, national strategy, convention, etc., as one of the priorities is the equalisation of the right of persons with disabilities regardless of how disability occurred. Well, you've allowed my dear colleagues, regardless of the various warnings that you're doing discrimination, in the same law, to treat blind people in the Homeland War, and the same right to do so is not a civilian blind person. That's not what you'd be talking about right now about the sensitivity of the government that my colleague Kunst was talking about. It's not about special regulations, it's about one law that rules out disability. In the area of protection of the rights of disabled persons, important progress has been made in raising the quality of life in the local community, but the implementation of certain regulations is still not satisfactory. This contributes to the environment and that the rights of persons with disabilities regulates around 270 regulations making it difficult to learn about their rights and thus access to the rights of which the Ombudsman warns us about. It is necessary to implement the evaluation of the application of existing legislation in the field of protection of persons with disabilities, in particular in the field of rehabilitation and employment by an independent body as well as the National Equality Strategy for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015. Unfortunately, this has not been done yet. The Fund works as it has worked all these years and I must warn of one worrying fact that there has been a trend of decline and in the high education of people with disabilities and employment, regardless of the resources being poured into the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund. However, there is no transparency where money ends when it is charged by those who need it. Given that the national strategy has carriers and deadlines, it would be much fairer if we had revised the national strategy and adapted it to the time in which we live. Especially since it's a government document, and I don't see any reason why the government doesn't audit that document. I'll list a few measures from the national strategy that were not implemented, which they should have. In the field of family action in Measure 5, which provides for different forms of quality and outside the institutional support of persons with disabilities and members of their family in order to enable freedom of their families, freedom of choice, and which also means the adoption of the Law on Personal Assistant for persons with the most difficult type and degree of disability. A few weeks ago when I warned about the pilot project, specifically the Law on Personal Assistant, I had the impression that many of you don't know the difference between a pilot of a project that lasts about 10 years and a law. Therefore, in Croatia over 300 persons based on the criteria of the pilot project have personal assistant services. However, there is no Law on a personal assistant that would clearly regulate how many persons are entitled and under what conditions. Under the national strategy, the law was due to be passed in 2008. And that's why I can't be comforted by the fact that people of the same degree of disability have the right to a personal assistant and not the others. Again, supporting discrimination within the same group with the same or similar degree of damage. So, when my colleagues say that how wonderful people with disabilities have a personal assistant, my colleagues don't have everything. There are 300 and some people around 400 people in this Croatia. So we can't talk about one system policy. Let us not throw dust in our eyes and constantly refer to pilot projects that include a small sample of people with disabilities. It was supposed to be made and a special regulation, but we are witnessing that we have not yet defined what the most difficult disability means. And as far as I'm aware, we've been talking about it for years, and every year we're talking about it, we're going to pass that law. In Chapter – Life in the Community, Measure 1, which defines ensuring a harmonised approach to providing quality community support services, i.e. empowerment of persons with disabilities at local level. The deadline for implementing this measure was 2007 and 2008. Unfortunately, associations still have funding problems this year. Many of them have not yet received funding for the current year. Most of the time, our associations live. In Chapter – Social care and pension insurance in point 3, which envisions raising the quality of professional work in social care institutions was due in 2007. Among other things, it was meant to be implemented and evaluated in a psychosocial rehabilitation programme. Even here, the deadline for implementation is not respected, nor are the means for continuous work provided. Under measure 7, an expert and analytical basis should be developed and the possibility of improving the rights of persons with disabilities should be proposed and appropriate regulations should be adopted. Under point 1, a professional analytical basis for improving disability rights was to be completed in 2008. Under point 3. The establishment of rules to improve disability-based rights was also due to be completed in 2008. Under point 5, make regulations on professional rehabilitation. I'm warning you one more time. So we don't have one transparent professional rehabilitation. Unfortunately, our disabled people prefer to take an institute of some other kind of social assistance than, or education because they are not sure that they will find employment. Mostly over 70% of people don't have a day's work. Also, under point 6. to draw up a unique list of all damages for all categories of people with disabilities regardless of the way and cause of disability. And it was supposed to be over in 12 months 2007. A legal basis was to be developed and a single body of art established. But the task force is still working. There's no such thing as a unique body of art, and when will there be? You don't know. Everyone says by the end of six months, which I doubt. That's what they said last year. That is why I warn that there will be an end to some rights without any analysis or real criteria through certain laws as it was done a few weeks ago with the Roads Act. So, without any criteria, it just happened, we cut to this degree of damage without any analysis. So 300 blind people fell out of that system. In the chapter, just a little bit, I could list here what has not been implemented through the national strategy and I think it should really be revised because it simply does not comply with the time in which we live, or in harmony, in the time in which the state lives and has the means. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The deadline was 12 months in 2008. I believe that the government should revise the national strategy and set realistic deadlines so as not to create confusion in achieving its rights as disabled persons. The lawyer cited many difficulties with health care and rehabilitation. There are great differences in the provision of health care in urban and rural areas. Often people with disabilities cannot exercise their rights to medical care in the house especially in islands and rural areas. Also children with... with Down syndrome and intellectual difficulties do not have access to dental care. Last summer, I got a call from a mother whether any dental or dental office was on call during a vacation to provide dental care to this population, meaning children with intellectual disabilities. I think we should call here a dental chamber and all the other chambers that care about the health of the nation. As far as the media is concerned, people with disabilities are portrayed as helpless people who are unable to do anything for themselves and thus undermines the dignity of people with disabilities. At the same time when topics such as the Roads Act and other things never come to order at least public television, or some shows that are not strictly specialised for people with disabilities. Unfortunately, it is quite clear that we as a society are not trying to integrate children with developmental difficulties enough. By doing so, we block a system that is also uncoordinated and push people with disabilities into segregation regardless of all the documents that oblige us that people with disabilities should participate in all segments of life regardless of the specificity of their disability. We, as a country this year, are giving a report to the United Nations on the state of the right of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Since we are one of the privy signatories of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I really want to know what that report's gonna look like. Since it is in line with the national strategy, a convention has been made, that is, we have done a national strategy according to the text of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Since the measures of the national strategy are not being implemented, neither shall what is drawn out in the Convention be implemented. I also once again warn the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the state in which the state was located, people with disabilities are always in a subordinate position, they are always those who suffer all possible crises, they are always those who are put on the verge of social events. I think it should be well imagined whether we as a society are conscious and finally taking a different view of 10% and between 10% and 12% of the country's population, respectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54524	Thank you. My colleagues see you put one remark in order when you came in line. Your application is registered as the first in the name of the clubs. ... There's your application form and you've come to your turn on that enrolment, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities Mrs. Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54525	Thank you. Here I thank the representatives of Mrs Škulić for her comment on the report. I would just like to get ahead and say this, as far as the national strategy is concerned, we have learned that we have been introduced by the restoring ministry that the national strategy is currently in the review phase and has been launched this year and has started to move towards local environments to see how local strategies have been made and that it is simply revised and that deadlines are made for those who are viable, i.e. measures to be achieved within the deadlines set. As far as what you've pointed out, it's in progress. As far as the records are concerned, the percentage of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. According to the Institute of Public Health, 10.5% of people with disabilities are referred to as compared to the total population of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, we must say that this very social reform that is under way and which we hope to receive, we have also sent a request to deliver a draft as soon as it is completed by the Social Care Act, because this very social reform should give us a single body of art, that is, a single list of damages on which all those persons and some diseases and damages will be, and the conditions which have not so far been by the name of a person with disabilities, that is to say, the need for each person to be damaged and necessary. And that way, too, the rights relating to extras on the weight of disability that especially those with visual impairment are expected, as well as everyone else, should be harmonised. And on this occasion I appeal indeed to the restoring ministries that will bring the above and the groups that work in that segment to really ensure that the rights acquired are not abolished, that is, if audited to meet the support and needs of each individual and individually. And I just pointed that out through the entire report. I would also like to point out that it is extremely important that the new budget for 2011 does not really touch the financial resources intended for areas where people with disabilities are, because this is extremely important and thus there will be no certain changes that could have negative connotations for people with disabilities. As far as discrimination is concerned, we as an office are competent, as special defenders also submit a report to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. However, we are obliged to submit it to the Ombudsman only when the report is under review in the Assembly then we will have the opportunity to present those cases that addressed us in 2009. That is why I did not particularly address the area of discrimination in this presentation. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54526	on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54527	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney with your co-workers. Here I will, in the first sentence of my presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, refer briefly to the presentation of my colleague Škulić. I wasn't correcting the incorrect allegations because it would be a lot and I wouldn't get there, but I have to say a few words. It is not true that there is no concern in Croatia and I do not mean people with disabilities. From many documents, projects, the implementation of regulations is quite the opposite. Secondly, she spoke more about the implementation or non-implementation of the National Strategy for Persons with Disabilities than the lawyer's report itself, but good. Here I will briefly try to analyze this second Attorney General's report for people with disabilities who are here today in front of us for a one-year period, so for the 2009 period. I must say that everyone in the Republic of Croatia is extremely proud and pleased that we have a Ombudsman for people with disabilities, that we have a person who is also a person with disabilities and who in the best possible way can understand the problem of people with disabilities, and thus warn all those who do not implement national or international regulations to do so, and also encourage or highlight and support what is good and quality done. The Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities for the past year shows that the Ombudsman's Office has handled 962 cases in total, which I must say and is not such a large number compared to the total population of people with disabilities. When I say this, I don't want to say that the office hasn't worked enough. Of course, the office has other jobs besides acting in individual objects, but here it is visible that, from this display, it is visible that it has worked in quality. So the solved items in 2009 of 962 solved 857 cases. This is a large number, which means that the Ombudsman, along with all her associates, is fully following the problem of people with disabilities and in a satisfactory way solving their problems. In its report, the Ombudsman referred to all segments of the life of persons with disabilities, both from the exercise of social rights and to the rights of pension insurance, accessibility, employment, education, etc. Of course, it should be pointed out that the fact that problems related to the exercise of rights in relation to persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are certainly true. But I think it's very important and necessary to point out that a lot of problems have been solved a few years ago. I will highlight here the "Accessive Croatia" project that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has carried out continuously since 2004, and I must say that in this project we can see one continuity, so what is going on, which is being implemented for years of quality. Why do I think it's quality? Because the project has been invested more than 8 million kuna since 2004, so more than 8 million kuna. When we visit our cities and counties in the Republic of Croatia, then it is visible what has really been done about this project. I'll just mention two examples. I was in the Bjelovar County a few days ago and I must tell you that the county building is adapted in the best possible way, from the ramp to the elevator, to the sanitary node for people with disabilities. Two years ago, when I was there, it was all gone. Furthermore, here last year we even launched the adjustment of the City of Makarska, which includes the rehabilitation centre of Biokovka and many people with disabilities throughout the year are staying at a maintenance or any other medical rehabilitation in that institution. They were becoming unadjusted environments in the city from the very landing on the beach to the crossing, so until... rinsole, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The city leaders of the city of Makarska have shown exceptional sensitivity and have already adjusted one part of it by this year. And without counting any more, there are these cities still in Croatia, I think over 30 have been adjusted, and with this project it is systematically moving on. When it comes to the education of persons with disabilities also referred to by the Ombudsman, of course there are still problems. However, I must point out what we mentioned yesterday during the hearing of the Ombudsman's report for children who also touched children with developmental difficulties, I have to say something that is positive. Just a few years ago, we couldn't imagine a child with developmental difficulties going to a regular kindergarten, being included in a regular elementary school in his place of residence. It was just a wish for us. We've experienced it, and thank God it's true. And I believe that more and more children will be involved in regular systems, but I must say that for some children, it is even better to be placed in a particular institution because it provides them with more education opportunities in some cases than the parent home itself. I know a few cases where children are excluded from the primary school system only because their parents think it would be terrible for them to separate from their own family. I think parents themselves should think in a more positive way. Many of us sitting here today have finished primary schools in some institutions and are proud and satisfied because in our midst, so that everything has been adapted to schooling would be difficult. So that in education things have moved far ahead is visible from what I have mentioned so far, and it is visible even so that today's scholarship to study receives more than a hundred or even more students with disabilities. I have to tell you when I was in the dorm room where I was staying I was the only person with a disability and I didn't have any scholarship and I didn't have a suitable room for people with disabilities. Today, we have all of this and well-adjusted higher education institutions, although not entirely. It is true what the Ombudsman stated that many, many more must be done in adapting high school institutions as well as in high school and primary school. As for the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which she gave on the Ombudsman's report for persons with disabilities, I must say the following. I am personally and here we are in the Croatian Democratic Community pleased that the government has given this opinion because it is visible what the Government is doing and what it will do in the most recent time. This is what we're talking about here for social care, and that's where the government said it was made, and we've mentioned this here on several occasions, that it's in the making of a new Social Care Act that will certainly solve a lot of problems for people with disabilities. First of all, by the end of this year, Croatia should be given the new single body of art mentioned by the Ombudsman who will finally determine disability. We're all people with disabilities today even though we know who we are, but we don't have a proper document to show from it that we're people with disabilities. Of course, it is clear to all of us that in such a situation it is difficult to achieve the right of disabled people, for they are skillful in several systems, which is certainly not good. So, with the unique body of art and the new Law on Social Care, I am sure that we will take a step forward, that all fees relating to persons with disabilities from those mentioned by the Ombudsman in his report, so from personal disability, compensation for other people's assistance and care, from the right to the status of the parent whom we often get caught in the debates, and many parents think that we should exercise this right, although, unfortunately, under the current regulation, they cannot do so. It is a significant step forward that the ministry predicted that it would expand the circle of persons who would exercise the right to parent status and to non-parent relatives. So that's something we have to support. Employment of persons with disabilities is something that we all love to talk about most, and the lawyer in her report noted that employers are not familiar enough, that they are not sufficiently familiar with the possibilities of people with disabilities, that they are not sufficiently familiar with the incentives given by the Professional Rehabilitation Fund, and that is partly true. However, I must say that the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the Association of Alliances of Persons with Disabilities have also organised several meetings over the last two to three years that concern the employment of persons with disabilities. So, employers, I'm going to dare say today, I can't get out too much of what people with disabilities can do, that they don't know what the incentives are, because they're also through the means of public information, and that's what the attorney and her associates were talking about in a series of TV and radio shows. So whoever wants to know for sure what incentives are involved. And here, I see my time is running out, and there's a lot more, a lot more I wanted to say, but unfortunately, I'm not gonna make it. Here's my closing line. I'll say the following. That Croatia is certainly very proud to be one of the few countries in the European, in the environment, and in the European Union, too, although Croatia is not yet a member, which has the Ombudsman institute for people with disabilities. It is a big step forward and we have a person who is a lawyer who well recognizes the problems of persons with disabilities, who knows how and in what way along with his associates to warn institutions that do not respect domestic and national and international regulations, but also who knows how to highlight what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done positively and which will support every positive example, all what has been positively done for persons with disabilities, and believe me it is very much from a personal assistant to the Law on Discrimination brought by the Croatian Parliament which first, our law regulates primarily non-discrimination. So, with the basis of disability and reasonable adjustment. Just for a little while, please. In the Republic of Austria or in the world, reasonable adjustment is regulated in regulations exclusively for the employment system, and we in our law are regulated in general. So that's a big step forward, that's what many in Europe admire, and here in the end I think this report is exhausting, thorough and the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54528	Thank you. Ms. Anka Slonjscak is the attorney attorney for people with disabilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54529	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs. Parliamentarian Mrs. Lukacic. I would like to say about the area of accessibility, indeed as we pointed out during the report period, that is, we did a little research on precisely those public institutions that are concerned with the availability of services and which can be told to the most important persons with disabilities so that they can achieve their own rights, benefits and privileges. And it is indeed done, as we have stressed much, but at the same time we must stress that there is little inspection supervision and we are indeed calling on the ministries, or those offices of the state administration that should carry out part of the inspection, that this surveillance is really being done, that civil society is being used, that is, persons with disabilities in these local environments that point to a constant, we have really high quality associations that work very hard in these areas in collaboration with ministries and use the funds for projects just this accessible Croatia and the like, but sanctions are being charged enough and there are indeed many areas which, despite the approval of financial resources and we can tell the associations that are still not, they have no sensitivity and they do indeed make some cuts, some, some, some, I don't know... The path, in such a way that I can say that we did, but the question is how they did it and is it really functional as it should be for certain damages of certain persons. [[You don't understand.]] As far as education is concerned, we must point out once again that it is extremely important that from inclusion from pre-school, or from kindergarten to higher education, families really need to be strengthened, they need to be supported that children with developmental difficulties are involved in educational processes, that it is emphasized that only in this way in a certain period of life will a person be able to be economically independent, that is, more independently and precisely, the goal of moving from education to an open labour market, if of course that person is able and capable, or according to his skills, and if not given the possibility to participate actively in the community through protection workshops, through creative workshops, and to simply persons with disabilities, i.e. those children, with the support of the family, receive the most important systematic support, i.e. experts. Indeed today, as often as we talk about education, we as an office find ourselves in a situation that we send to a particular working group or who we call when it comes to the problems and specificities of certain damages. Here's the thing about employment, I'd still like to point out that it's extremely important. A person with disabilities doesn't have a lot of people who finish high school education, not a lot of people like that. Unfortunately, we have little to say to them, but those who have really put forth the effort, their families, who have come, have changed the environments, who have given all their energy and effort to complete a certain college, in order to graduate from the university, we must systematically provide that they have a working experience, we need to enable those persons to have the opportunity of that traineeship, in order to see that these people really can, but they need to be given an opportunity. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54530	Thank you. HNS's club, HSU's, Ms. Danica Hursa's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54531	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Attorney General, gentlemen of the government, representatives of associations, colleagues and colleagues. The Bulgarian Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities for 2009 report provides an extremely extensive and comprehensive presentation of work and problems, with which the office has met in the past 2009. In the first wave, however, the report seems too tangible and pretentious, but a series of details in the report should be considered appropriate, to be taught and should no longer be repeated when they are in negative connotation or prevented or used as a pattern of conduct in positive outcomes. During 2009, the office acted in 962 cases and conducted a number of other activities such as county tours, establishing and encouraging inter-resorship cooperation, visits to institutions etc. This report shall give further insight into the financial operations of the office and shall ultimately follow the recommendation of the Office. At the very beginning of the report, it is the employees of the office. So he says the office is teamed up with 10 employees. In connection with the employment of a deputy or deputy attorney, I am asking the attorney's attorney how come the deputy attorney's job has not been given to a graduate lawyer in its own time, a person with 100 percent damage, a blind person, and the competition gave priority to a person with disabilities. And more importantly, the media wrote, I call on it, is it true that this application was rejected without reason. A few words about the terminology used in this area. The question of terminology is unusually important because discrimination often begins with the very choice of names. So let me also use this pay phone in this High House to remind us all of... a 2003 declaration supporting the terms of persons with disabilities and a child with developmental difficulties as a binding and unique termology for daily speech. [[You don't understand.]] The most common areas of violation of law. The report shows that the largest number of cases opened as a subject in 2009 concerned the protection of the rights and interests of persons with disabilities in the field of social protection 22.6%, in the area of pension insurance 11.7%, in the field of labour and employment 11 and per cent, in the area of accessibility 9.5%, in the area of justice 8.6% In the area of personal disability, the report speaks of inequality by individual bodies in the conduct and assessment of serious and permanent damage, and the different rights for almost the same or very similar damages that we are assessing very worrying. We firmly believe that very soon this problem will be resolved by the change of the Social Care Act, which I hope, among other things, will solve the status of carers, and we in the club want to take great care of the Angel Association's initiative from Split, which seems to give us a very good solution on this issue. The report further mentions institutions for providing social and health care for people with disabilities and developmental difficulties regardless of their age and type of difficulties. I would like to mention and personally commend and thank the owners, employees and employees of the Centre for Rehabilitation Varazdin, a branch of Pustodol who indeed care for about 230 users of all ages and types of damage with a lot of love and attention. There are certainly problems of this as well as of all similar institutions. Lack of required number of professionals, too many users, different user structures according to type of damage and age. Regardless of the quality of the user accommodation facilities outside the institution is a process that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken as a commitment through a series of international contracts and documents. How and when we will go along this path when, according to the records, the number of users located has not decreased significantly more back several years than the number of requests for accommodation in the institution is increasing. Data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health speak about 10.5% of people with disabilities living in the Republic of Croatia. The truth is also a key fact that says that a person with disabilities has not only damage but also has potentials that can develop with the incentive of an environment from which everything that prevents the development of remaining abilities to the benefit and satisfaction of the person himself, but also the community in which life is realized. The development of existing potentials is the easiest to develop through employment and work because the right to work and employment is one of the fundamental human rights. Any disabling in the exercise of this right constitutes its violation and discrimination. The Croatian Employment Institute records show that an extremely large number of people with disabilities have been reported as unemployed for more than 5 and 8 years, respectively. This fact is alarming because the likelihood of employment decreases by increasing the years spent at the Employment Office. Long-term unemployment other than unresolved status leads to isolation, loss of self-respect and communication problems. Although registered as a working person, they need much stronger support from the system in the form of additional education, practice and even motivation in order to become involved in the labour market. Paradox is also very common in the fact that the ability of persons with disabilities to employers is not enough until, on the other hand, the welfare system lacks sufficient incompetence to be able to exercise compensation rights guaranteeing a minimum of social security. The following report discusses violence, not only of domestic violence but also of other types of violence. Between spouses and children. For the time being, there is still talk of a small number of cases because people with disabilities find it difficult to report violence among other things and the difficult circumstances of adequate care. The lawyer’s office’s report reports visits to county institutions and accessibility to the same persons with disabilities. Among others are examples from my Krapina-Zagorian County. I am extremely concerned, and I do not find my clear qualification unaccessible in a special hospital for medical rehabilitation at the Stubic Spas. What does a qualification really mean inaccessible? I'm going to ask the D.A. to explain this to us here because there have been a lot of calls from employees from that institution who say they've been damaged in this way, that they've been wronged because they don't find inaccessibility for people with disabilities in their institution. I'd also like to mention the accessibility of post offices, malls, banks. In these last few, there is almost no problem while a number of postal offices have not secured accessibility conditions for people with disabilities. Personally, I am very happy that the post office in Oroslavje has become a priority. I believe that the approach ramp will soon be built because my county, with that and my city, by the number of people with disabilities, is unfortunately at the very top, so the issues of approach to public institutions are unusually important. A few words about information. Therefore, information, communication and awareness raising both in persons with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties, and their environments fall into priority tasks where social care centres, associations and, in particular, the media play an important role. In the end, I must repeat from this pay phone and express a great deal of regret that the ruling did not recently accept my amendment to the Law on Public Roads was supposed to make a difference in persons with disabilities of origin. So, by amendment we wanted to equalize all those persons with a percentage of damage that would still be able to use free transport on our highways. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Representatives and representatives of the Croatian People's Party and Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54532	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you know what, what my colleague said about the Law on Public Roads I have to say, and that's what we said here in the debate, the government has made it possible, by its amendment to that law, for all those people with disabilities who really need to use free tolls to have it. We're all aware that so far there's been a lot of abuse in that and you colleagues know that's the case. However, those who are dissatisfied think it would be good to move a little bit and admit that indeed all persons with disabilities who should have the right to do so are entitled to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54534	Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities Mrs. Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54535	Thank you. First of all, I would like to address Ms. HNS's representatives precisely because you have raised the question of hiring a deputy even though this refers to 2008 and it is really not the issue of this report, nor the question of this debate I would like to answer to you regardless of how I would once hope to end this story in front of this High Place. Because that story repeats me and she chokes me, and it's unnecessary because I think she's done absolutely everything right. It's a test carried out on a public call regarding my deputy, or deputy, depending on who's answering. Seven people answered that public call. Of these 7 persons, 3 persons were in the area of legal affairs. Since according to the Attorney General's Law that I personally am not with a law school but with an economic college, one of the deputies was supposed to be a legal person. In that segment, it appeared as I said three people in whom it appeared among others and the said lady. During the test, the lady did not have the best results or was able to have the advantage. If I had had had the same results between the three people in that case, it would have had the right to take advantage of the law that requires it. Based on this, the person selected was the person who had the best results. For this reason, Mr. Boris Jakov Gericic is my deputy. As for the other comments, thank you. I see you've really read and processed the report in detail. As far as the accessibility of Krapina-Zagorje County is concerned, we do have excellent quality cooperation with all representatives of the county and with all offices and indeed in Krapina-Zagorje we have launched a series of initiatives as an office and they are recognized and they have changed. As for the definition of non-accessibility, we are talking about not only the accessibility of architectural barriers, so this is not just about hair and the like, but also about communication barriers. And we've sent a certain inquiry on the basis of which the hospital was manifested, so I'm going to send you the answer, given that I don't have specific details here, and I'm going to be willing to send it to all the MPs, and I'm going to send you the question, and I'm going to give you the answer, so you have a specific reason why it's just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54536	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54537	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Slonješak, Honorable Advocate for Persons with Disabilities, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Association of Persons with Disabilities. Mrs. Slonjak once asked you this question in an interview: "What would you say to people who have recently died and have the highest degree of disability as a result? What do they do to overcome this period of their lives and to return to life?" Your answer was very interesting. "First of all, we should know that disability is a day-to-day phenomenon as long as we are healthy. This is why the Croatian Association of Paraplegics and Tetraplegics conducted a project that I am the host of which was called Prevention Educational Activities for Children and Youth." The project aimed to meet children and young people with disabilities as a consequence of daily activities, means driving cars, engines, jumping into water, picking fruits and the like, because these are the situations most often caused by disability. This project has proved to be very important and accepted. You're still answering: "Unfortunately, in charge of this project, this project is not recognized as important. Even the city of Zagreb, which has funded this project for two years this year, did not support it. It is surprising that members of the evaluation committees are often far from ordinary people and their needs. But you're moving on, to get back to the recently injured. You say the slogan of a European association that reads, "Passibility doesn't stop life." Today, when people with injuries to the spine live more than average years of life, it really is not enough for a single person to be cared for. There are great vulnerabilities in rehabilitation, but at the same time no one can rehabilitate us unless we ourselves make an effort in our rehabilitation. Others can direct us professionally and similarly, but still everything remains with us. I think it's crucial that a person gets to know their own condition as soon as possible. It is extremely important to inform and do everything possible to strengthen mental and physical so that it can focus on reintegration into the life of the community. Although this process is shorter in some people, and in some longer ones, the goal is always the same for everyone, to return to everyday life." There's something else that I've come across that's very interesting, and it's very much about today's debate and topic. I'm going to quote a prominent chemistry professor of science, Albin Juric, from a rally when you had the ECCIF Congress in Umag. He says, "When I was working as a chemistry teacher, I had an assistant. I never thought I'd need it later. Unfortunately, I had to retire through the progress of my illness, and I thought I'd work slowly with a computer and coffee. The disease was faster than my thoughts. First they cancel my legs, then my hands, so all I have left to do is breathe and take food, but only with the help of the other. It was a big blow for me and my family, so I had to get by somehow. A year ago, I heard about an excellent personal assistant project that allowed a disabled person through an association to be with him for at least four hours. I got an assistant. The program is excellent, only over the years should certain corrections be made. First, it is necessary to carry out an accurate disability qualification because, depending on the association, assistants can also be given to patients who walk with one flock. In addition to legal and social lectures, which assistants were obliged to listen to, perhaps for specific groups of patient care education, bedkeeping, out of bed, wheelchair handling and others. And now the third finding is very interesting, and it's about the media. He says the media's interest in such a commendable project is interesting. None of the TVs were present to sign the contract, I don't know if any daily newspapers published it. He says like this: "a man seems better to be a homosexual whose parade is passed on by even foreign stations than disabled in a wheelchair. Probably good news for journalists is not news." I may not go any further but I would say that we must be extremely proud that we have for you an attorney who in this short period has shown how your work is done, which you are extremely active so that there is no reason, as my colleague Lukacic said, not to support your report as wonderful. And I'll only end up with your life motto for a little while. You say, for the end I would say my motto that leads me in life, says: be active, engage in life and accept challenges are the key to quality life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54538	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, you were talking about rehab. I don't know how much you know about the area of rehabilitation, that sometimes it's not just good will and our personal adventure for good rehabilitation but also something much, much more. This is an affordable rehabilitation where you can, with the help of assistants or staff, enter the pool, where you can find all those resources that from you, from the person who at one point of life acquired disability or was born with it or acquired during life, will be done a good rehabilitation. So, let's remember Sandra Paovic who died in France and with a good rehabilitation that was conducted in France or Switzerland, she can now be told to a healthy person. Unfortunately, in Croatia, if she had spent that same rehabilitation, I mean apart from goodwill and "Sandra yes, you can do it" would unfortunately be nothing else. She believed she'd still be in a wheelchair, wouldn't walk. As for the personal assistant, that personal assistant, but for all those who need it, not as a pilot project. And I think that's just where the media should play some other role. Why not a personal assistant for all if it's the law, if the national strategy predicted that by 2007, this law must be made, and we're still talking about the pilot project and we won't, as if we invented hot water. Unfortunately, we haven't invented hot water, personal assistant yes, but for all those who need a personal assistant. And of course, rehab good rehabilitation, affordable rehabilitation and affordable orthopedic aids in that form for all those who need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54540	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Kundic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54541	It seems to me that somehow you didn't listen very well to me because my aspect of this debate was neither in any numbers nor in letters, my aspect was one impression, expression of thought, simple and encouraging that I wanted to use for people who were in such a situation. And as for rehabilitation, I think it's quality and it can always be even more quality and better, but also colleague Lukacic said that we are one of the few countries that we introduced to the Ombudsman's institute and I stressed that she is doing this amazing job. And I think the Government of the Republic of Croatia is extremely sensitive. We remember the time when Ms. Kosor was in her resor, how she acted, how she did, how she ran the sector. So I think I just haven't been in, but I think it can always be fixed and it's satisfactory for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54542	In accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure expired at 11.01 p.m. for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Mrs. Anka Slonjšak, Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54543	Thank you. Here's my thanks to Mr. Representative, I haven't memorized the exact name, Mr. Kundic. I'd like to point out and thank you for getting out of my speech. Somehow I always try, regardless of the problems, we're all in trouble today, everyone in their own way, but people with disabilities really have extra difficulties that, especially their families, have to deal with every day. And today when we talk about that 10.5%, we're not just talking about 10.5%. We're talking about a segment involving both families and those closer to them that are surrounded around these members and their friends so that we can talk about maybe duplicating numbers and maybe tripling. So we must all ask ourselves how we can complete ourselves and improve the quality of life because that way, if we improve that person, we will improve our lives. We know that you never know which disease, which condition you're going to be in because we're all in cars today, we're all moving. We're not just gonna talk about a car, we can talk about diabetes, we can talk about the consequences of a heart attack, or heart disease, so I don't list the consequences of cancer or anything like that. And indeed, the question, and we all need to ask ourselves here, which we are deciding today or tomorrow about some regulations that these regulations really are applicable, that they are not just papers that will come back to amendments and the adoption of new regulations that will again be a question of whether they are possible for implementation. As far as preventive educational workshops are concerned, I believe that these workshops have the utmost importance to carry out education from kindergarten children to higher education institutions in order to get close to all groups, to all the age of life, which means when there is a certain damage and how to approach and how to react at all, and thus to prevent the worst that can happen at the same time. We have also engaged in a preventive programme to prevent violence among young people, especially as regards young people with disabilities, or children with developmental disabilities, just to get involved in class classes, in one school year to put on at least one hour, class tolerance, to get to know children with their peers, to learn about their differences, their specificities, but at the same time to realize that they are children like them, and that because of their diversity they do not exclude them, do not belittle them, do not commit certain abuses, abuses and so forth. I think it is very important and simply this very important role is played by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is the agencies that carry out certain educations, which are in charge of these expert teams just to educate and teach staff who are often not sensitized. We have quality and good examples, but at the same time we have examples that are, we can say, hard, which are, it takes a lot of roles and effort to learn and to realize that if a child is one with difficulties in the class, that they really need to be educated and asked by an expert how and how I can help and make better adjustments to that child’s program, and that this teacher does not feel that something is not out of his job description. As for the personal assistant, I personally wouldn't be able to do this job if I didn't have assistance. To me, my assistant sitting on my right, Mrs. Bunic, the lady is my right hand. I couldn't do this job. I couldn't work in the afternoon, or often in the evening if I didn't have a personal assistant. Simply the most disabled cannot perform functionally unless they have the support they need. This support must be provided systematically. It means working assistant and supporting technology. Today we have modern technologies that allow people with the most severe damage in their space to work in the workplace with the minimal help of a natural person but the system must in some ways ensure that we want equal inclusion in the process and the labour markets, as well as in other systems. As far as the media is concerned, we reiterated that the media and I stress there are positive examples and indeed the media report daily more and more and more and indeed public television as much as we warned and we were unhappy in 2008 that it did not convey what was most important that it was ensured when the official opening of the office they did not transmit that this office was open and we were very unhappy about it. However, indeed in 2009, and in particular in the last period, it has somehow been shown that we are increasingly in the media and that people with disabilities are really showing up, i.e. in an adequate way, informing and informing the public about their needs, and at the same time positive initiatives. However, I say there are media, there are those we can say yellow ones who really work in a way that portrays them as persons of need, out of pity, and often do more harm to this family than benefit from a certain inadequate title, inadequate text found in that article. About rehab. We're just rehabilitating let's say we scratched this report in 2009. A number of initiatives have already been launched in 2010 and perhaps it is not the subject of the debate here because we will have a report next year. But as already mentioned, I think rehab is important to everyone. If a person with disabilities does not have adequate rehabilitation and health care, it cannot then be active in any respect, in any field, in any segment of the area that is expected to be actively involved in the community. Rehabilitation is therefore important to support, and it is important for both the initial and the maintenance ones. As for the person with spinal injuries and the one mentioned by Mrs Škulić, the female athlete who had the opportunity and who was supported by the public, we really stress that it is important to enable quality rehabilitation in the Republic of Croatia. We also have special hospitals and spas, but they should be given both financial support and multidisciplinary support, namely that a team of experts working inside is really full. It means that all the experts needed for certain damages are employed in such institutions, i.e. such rehabilitation centres, because that is the only way in which certain damages or damages will be sustained by the full and quality rehabilitation that we all expect. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54544	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54545	The Honorable Vice President, the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities with his associates and fellow MPs. Well, the D.A.'s Office for Persons with Disabilities has proven its justification for existence and through this 2009 report, we see that an increasing number of people with disabilities are addressing the Ombudsman and the Attorney's Office. Significant warnings from the Ombudsman should be taken responsibly and seek solutions to help people with disabilities, especially those with disabilities who need help and help in the home. All competent institutions of cities, municipalities, counties, states and, together with the competent ministry, must be involved, ensure that the most basic needs for those persons are met, and these persons are actually our fellow citizens. I call on the Advocate General to call in the future all those responsible persons and institutions who avoid doing their part of the job or do not show enough understanding, humanity in solving the problems of people with disabilities, especially for those who need help and him in the house. One of the highlighted problems is the difficulty in hiring people with disabilities, regardless of the legal benefits, i.e. Advantage under the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and Those Encouragements, which employers can use. I will take this opportunity to welcome the project to encourage more intensive inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market that is being implemented these days under the European IPA programme, which includes our representatives of the Employment Office. The project is worth somewhere near a million kuna, namely 960500 euros. Today, about 6500 unemployed persons with disabilities are registered at the Employment Office. Of that number somewhere around 36% or more precisely 2328 people do not have a day of work, while somewhere around 44% or 2830 people are unemployed for more than three years. I think it would be important to determine how much in Croatia, i.e. in which counties have the need to open protective workshops of the type of institutions or companies, which would employ disabled persons, in which labour means would be adapted to the type of disability and normally to facilitate a lot of those people who need such work. The existing work capacity in today's societies, the type of protection workshops, is obviously not enough to hire all those unemployed people with disabilities. It is known that employment is also a job rehabilitation for people with disabilities, and it is also the best way to involve them in the social community, and it has been proven that I have had the opportunity to convince myself that people with disabilities are working harder to carry out work tasks than many healthy people or colleagues. For these reasons, it is necessary because the problem of people with disabilities in the labour market should not be too expensive for me, and it should not be too expensive in principle, because empty space would be found today with many factories, businesses, which we also have half-empty, means to edit and equip such workshops, they can also be collected through this project IPA programme, then funds and funds from incentives for the employment of persons with disabilities, which are provided through the circus 6 laws to stimulate employers, etc. And to complete the employment of people with disabilities and create the necessary conditions for the work of those persons must be our common goal, it is the goal of every human society, and we really are, because we help the existing and we open new protection workshops to achieve the full employment of people with disabilities. They don't need much, and let's not deny them what little we can do for them. Therefore, I appeal to you that you, as well as normal, all associations that normally have a member of a disabled person, see and encourage the launch of a protection workshops project and full employment of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54546	Thank you. Attorney General, ma'am. What? And excuse me, excuse me before one replica of Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I refer briefly to the presentation of my colleague Kunst, I agree with the full discussion of him, and I believe that the attorney-general will also be eating such an action that protection workshops and related to the employment of persons with disabilities will be maintained existing, and if there is a need for openings and new ones, and that the attorney-general is listening to me say so, or that her proposals are being accepted, here is enough, and here I have to say publicly in the presentation on behalf of the club, as very commendable, that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system have accepted the proposal of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, that, in the change of the Constitution that is just now accepting the harmonisation of terminology, exactly what we just said and which is very important and which is also the colleague Kunst finally said to the disabled person. A little mistake. It's not, it's a person with disabilities because when we look at it that way, when we talk about it, it's also very important for employment. And I'm going to look back here briefly on a project that is also important for employment. Of course, we need the law that was already here several times today. However, it is important to know that this year the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided 4 and a half million kuna for the project of a personal assistant, that 100 more people, therefore more than 400 people with the most difficult type of disability in this project will be involved. When Croatia comes out of crisis, I believe we will soon get the Law on personal assistant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54548	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54549	Well, thank you very much, sweetheart, for stressing once again the need for protective workshops, normally for people with disabilities, and I think that's very important. I remember somewhere in the early '90s that battles were when they were simple, and you were a participant then with me, who we fought battles when we fought for people with disabilities to get this degree and according to regulations and according to the laws of protection and convenience they have today. And that's why I believe, it's not what we in Croatia would have discovered, Germany has been doing it for decades, etc., that we can engage more on these protection workshops. I don't need to know too much money, I think it takes more good will and that those resources of work that would have been adapted to the kind of disability, which is most important, because I have a lot of examples, and you were with me when unfortunately many disabled people had to work on the means of work that had nothing to do with their kind of disability, and they were even standardized for that job that had to work to achieve some norm. I believe that these times are behind us and I expect that in any case there is one joint action, a campaign, and I believe that from the Committee on Labour, the social partnership has full support to move forward and achieve the full employment of those people with disabilities right through those workshops of the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54550	And the lawyer for people with disabilities, Mrs. Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54551	Well, here I am primarily thanking Mr. Kunst and Mrs. Lukacic. I'd like to go back to where it's coming from, as far as employment is concerned, education. Today, we have for individuals with certain damages still educational profiles that concern, for example. damage to vision, we have a telephone player, who we know today what technology is and how much we can hire with such an interest I think it's gone simply must be supported to change the nomenclature, or list of occupations. Then educational profile for top chargers. I think that long ago many are, many areas in the Republic of Croatia that no longer have the opportunity to hire people who have such educational profiles, and primarily we have to start from education, to allow people to education really for those interests that will be competitive in the open market, for those damages that can be included in the open market according to their abilities and skills. However, I must stress that the Professional Rehabilitation Fund is indeed giving quality incentives, but there is a problem that concerns the introduction of precisely the work process. Today we have this working therapist who often is a person who is basically employed by that employer. The question is how adequately will the person prepare this person if we know today that there are many persons at the Croatian Employment Service who are 3 to 5 years old, so it is really great, a great effort should be made to return to the recognition of skills and qualities that these persons should have just to start working immediately. As far as protection workshops are concerned, we, as an office, have indeed encouraged and thanked Mr Kunst, or the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, which we will try to do with a series of proposals some joint activities that would strengthen previous protection workshops. Because it's these workshops that employ those people whose damages are not possible because of their health and health conditions to be on the open labour market. So we need to enable these people to have, if they are employed in protective workshops, it's a question of complex problems. It is not only the opening of a protection workshop, it should also be possible to finance their basic incomes, and what is most important is their assistance, i.e. the assistance of experts involved in the process itself. And also when it comes that these persons need certain market requirements to be made realistic according to their abilities. So here, we support the activities and, of course, we will participate in their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54552	Thank you. We are continuing with an individual debate, and it is up to the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Attorney General, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is actually the first annual report that is before us and I would personally evaluate it as very high-quality, very extensive, from which it is evident that you and your associates have been very dedicated, professionally working to track, promote and protect the rights of persons with disabilities in the past year. Somehow it seems to me that since we have the D.A.'s Office for Persons with Disabilities that some things have started, it's just a question of how much this is happening at that speed and the intensity that we'd like, which people with disabilities would want it to be. What makes me say that? I think it will appear in your case, I say, because your office has only been working for a year and a half, so perhaps you have not yet faced that feeling, but what is present with other offices and other lawyers seems a little frustrating to me, which is that unfortunately, the institution of the Ombudsman who has been empowered by the Croatian Parliament, the institute that should see the problem, points to the competent institutions to irregularities, to the non-compliance of the law, therefore to the lack of bad laws actually in practice, at least when it comes to amendments to the law, can't and can't achieve too much. So let's not forget that the Ombudsman's institute is actually the ultimate instance to which a person with disabilities addresses after the problem could not be solved in his local community, through his association whose member or national alliance is a member of an association. The office should therefore be and should be a kind of control body, i.e. an advisory body that has influence and authority to encourage change. Because what we get out of it is if every year solutions are proposed after which your proposals remain just a dead letter on paper. So we already have a case that the Ombudsman's institute suggests, suggests, initiates, suggests, but everything remains unfortunately on that verb. Now I'm not talking about your relationship and working directly with people with disabilities. I am talking about what this Parliament, what executive power can and should do, but it does not do or does not do quickly enough. So it would be logical and we would expect the laws to be harmonised, or repaired in accordance with the prosecutor's report. Because it's not the purpose of the report to spend paper or to have endless discussions about what's wrong, which should be better if all this is left with is a dead letter on paper. It is precisely this purpose that reports, therefore, are based on them to work to change the law or to pass some new laws that will make the life of people with disabilities more quality and humane and more dignified. Because as you said yourself, as you Mrs. Attorney-General said at the outset, you don't always need enormous financial resources to make good things happen and quality moves for people with disabilities. So, I think that's the most important thing actually in the work of your office and in the work of the other defense attorney offices we have. That institutions take into account, with great respect, what comes as a proposal, as a suggestion by the office, and that, therefore, the irregularities recorded by the Ombudsman should be identified to encourage new amendments to the law, regulations, provisions, whatever is not, which are in force to improve them. Therefore, respect the report and act in accordance with the report, in accordance with the recommendations and improve and amend laws that do not work or which cause certain irregularities to occur. Otherwise, as I said, as attorney, they will report on the same things, formalize the problems that we know well that there are too many years, and the difference will be that every year the report will get fatter and fatter. So we know very well that that's not the point, and in that sense things should change. I especially believe that those who should follow the suggestions of the Attorney General, for example. The report doesn't accept. I do not know if there is a parliament in the world that even such a formulation, such an institute does not accept the report of the Advocates' Office, which has been empowered by parliament to a single country. But that's what's happening. I think there are a lot of examples of illogicalness that we could simply solve, as you say, with a little goodwill and maybe a little money, but we don't. I'll do as long as you let me mention some. In fact, when it comes to the rights of persons with disabilities, we have laws that allow us to exercise certain rights, but sometimes it is really justified to ask a question, and who has the right to do so? Is that right has a thing or is that right has a person? For example. The free passage of the highways, and there is no Republic of Croatia since recently, unfortunately only disabled 100% have the right to do so until some better times. They do so by means of a smart card on which the data of the person and the vehicle are all known, so people with disabilities must own a car and travel exclusively by their car in order to achieve this right. Someone will say, but you know that's what this institute would otherwise be abused. Well, I can't imagine that we can't think of a mechanism to prevent abuse. Does it seem absurd to me if a person with multiple sclerosis is tired, if he has a high degree of disability and that he has to go from point A to point B and that he necessarily has to do it with his car, that he can't make his friend with his car. Or even more absurd that such a person must own a car in order to exercise his right. It really seems absurd to me, and I can't understand why things don't change in that sense. The example is really a lot, and there's one job in short hours. Persons with disabilities do not have the right to work part-time as parents of children with developmental difficulties do. So, many people with disabilities who are in a disability pension actually like to work part-time when the state would allow them, which would seem much better to me than to be people who are on some kind of social assistance, who, again, have to receive support from various items of the state budget. There, my time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54554	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would briefly correct a colleague who said in her presentation that reports are being brought after which nothing seems to be done, as the Government does nothing, which is completely incorrect. That's what Mrs. Lukacic was talking about. After each report, certain measures shall be taken. If you want to involve assistants if you also want to set up this commission or the body of art, master plan with transforming institutions into smaller housing units, i.e. increasing capacity to provide extra-institutional services, grant, increase the number of scholarships, increase and approval from the Ministry of Health for the number of employees in homes etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54556	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is next to the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with his associates. Here's all of us who have read this report see actually those actual problems of a disabled person. Otherwise, the legislative and institutional framework certainly provides that it has improved the preconditions for improving the position of persons with disabilities, and otherwise there are these sublegal and legal acts around 280. However, in some important segments of life, the equalisation of the opportunities of disabled people is still recognised as a declarative policy. In fact, the laws governing the rights of persons with disabilities still have different definitions of disability and, of course, it is necessary to align it. The Ombudsman’s report shows that people who have addressed the office have mostly had objections to the exercise of certain rights under the social care system. As the Ombudsman stated in the report herself, it is necessary to develop a policy of monetary giving for people with disabilities. For example. the exercise of the right to compensation for assistance and care shall be linked to a very strict material censorship so that persons with low incomes cannot exercise such a right primarily intended to meet the increased needs of persons with disabilities. And I'm going to quote one sentence or one statement, which is "that by the power of my spirit, by my perseverance and creativity, these people very often extend the limits of the possible". In general, it predominates the view that material rights are insufficient and cannot cover the costs arising from disability. Furthermore, the exercise of certain rights depends on the cause of disability that we heard here in some debate necessarily reconciled for example. the amount of allowance for the assistance and care of the blind, differs significantly from whether the law on the rights of Croatian defenders, the Social Care Act, the Pension Insurance Act or the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Victims of War. It's discrimination under the law. And all these people have the same problem of working in the community. From your report, or by listening to parents of children with developmental difficulties in the local community, the most common observations also relate to the need to establish a single child-skilling body on the basis of which the findings and opinions would exercise rights in all institutions. Today, the situation is such that children of experts and in the welfare system, in the education system, and in order to achieve the right of parents to work with half full-time and leave until the 7th year of child's life, skill is done in the ministry in the health system. Very often this is not necessary for all forms of persons, for all types of persons with disabilities, namely the administration increases in this way. Kids, parents go through tortures, and the results are often the same. Sometimes even since the first child-experienced art, at about 6, 7 years of age, these skills have been performed as many times as they could because of these numbered reasons and have been avoided. The report shows that involving children with developmental difficulties in regular systems does not naturally take place without difficulties. You can also see misjudged professions sometimes, but also the tenacity of parents to help their children exercise their rights. As far as the Law on Education and Education is concerned, it is envisaged to actually adopt implementing rules that would make it possible to systematically introduce an assistant in the follow-up of children with developmental difficulties. Also, the state pedagogical standards we have are predicting that the school can provide with other staff and assistants in the classroom. But as we all know and where we heard from the report and who we know, which in the local community we know, we may see that reality is quite, quite different. The introduction of a follow-up assistant depends, of course, on the recognizability of needs and possibilities, depending on the sensibility of the people working on it, of course also on the financing and financial resources of the local community. But I would still say that will sensitivity for such a problem will surely be able to find various other ways in which we will introduce that form. But without proper systematic introduction, what we've been saying, there's no real help. Of course, the local community can take care of its citizens in a variety of ways. So here in Dubrovnik we also have a commission for disabled people where all persons, or representatives of civil society, representatives of associations, representatives of people with disabilities are involved. And they can simply help us propose measures for satisfaction so that it is one collaboration between civil society and the city or local community, the City of Dubrovnik. The area of health care is one of the important areas for people with disabilities. We talked today about the problem of infrastructure, the education of health professionals, I will not repeat it now, the removal of communication barriers, etc., etc. But I'm worried, in one sentence you said that multiple office attempts were in full year to contact the Minister of Health that you failed. I just don't understand that relationship. Today we also heard that dental protection of children with developmental difficulties is unfortunately not possible. I was talking about it yesterday when he was a baby lawyer's report, so I'm going to say it very briefly. This service is provided by a pedodont specialist who has specific knowledge and skills to access that population. Namely, a child with developmental disorders should be approached as individuals with specific needs and only then as a person with physical, mental and intellectual qualities. About 80% of such patients can be performed without anesthesia, however, much of them need general anaesthesia in order to provide or achieve dental protection. My colleague Škulić mentioned earlier that she calls the chamber dental, and I would say that the chamber cannot do that, that it is a matter of the health care system or the health ministry, because it cannot determine the dental chamber as many teams as it can be, as many pedodonts. I think we all know that. Unfortunately, too, these dental interventions in general anaesthesia can only be provided at the dental polyclinic in Split, Rijeka and in Zagreb there is a specialized medical clinic for dentistry of the clinical hospital and dental school. So, it's just a little bit for the number of parents who can't get care for those kids, and you know what problems they have when at night a tooth hurts and what a child when they can't do an intervention. Also, one of the most important problems of people with disabilities is inclusion in the world of work. I think the lawyer said today, and we're aware of the fact that employment has been difficult. This should further encourage employers to implement the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, as well as inform on the use of the Professional Rehabilitation Fund. I'd only be a short while longer, I can see that my red light is already red, but Madam Attorney said that prejudice is worse than disease and that the media should help sensitize it. Here I read last night from a weekly witness list of an 8th grade student who actually wrote a report. She wrote that report about her life and commended her teacher for putting it in the media for school day. So she actually testified about her life. It's a child who was born with a cyst in the motor part so that she didn't have developed motorbike, she's fighting and she's telling her life and her mother and her and her story that she didn't understand before why her mother was so tortured because she's torturing through exercises, but now she's aware of how much she wants to live...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54558	Bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54559	She wants to work to match the motorbike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54560	Thank you. We have one replica. I'm asking you to stick to the weather, no matter what the subject. We have a replica, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54561	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here's counterpart Šimac-Bonačić, you pointed out in your debate that the normative framework of the problem of people with disabilities has been greatly improved lately, but that there is still a lot of illogicalness, and that part of this illogicality was also discussed by colleague Jerkovic. And one such illogicality I would like to potential in this replica. I'm going to try to illustrate it with a very concrete example of life. It is a disabled child, therefore a child with a mental retardation who until a short time ago used the services of living in the Centre for Education and Education. However, a short time ago, his mother gained the right to the status of mother nurse, and this child, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Social Care Act, lost the right to this living room, or to stay at the Centre for Education and Education, lost the right to participate in these programmes of psycho social rehabilitation and work activities. Now, according to his mother's story, it had a very, very negative impact on his psycho social status, and the child began to fall back in acquired and working and psycho social skills. So what I'm saying is that I don't think one right should in any case exclude another right and that this particular status of the foster mother should not deny the child the right to continue to participate in those programmes because they make a significant contribution to its overall state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54562	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54563	Thank you very much, colleague, you've noticed quite well, and you can see that in the attorney's reports when it's an absolute thing that's not actually solved. Namely, I read that in the report, that case of a mother losing her status if the child is located for more than four hours in an institution as an institutional form of accommodation or in a living room. And then you have a case if it's the child you need, because at school you can't do all those personal needs, if the child doesn't have a personal assistant, then the school can't give it to the child. And that's exactly why it's absurd for one to rule out the other. Therefore, we cannot frame and say, but we must really as you said at first look at each case for ourselves, so there leave the possibility of alignment, not to come up with such things as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54564	We're continuing the debate. The guest of Gordana Sobol is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54565	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with my associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'd like to do today, and I'd like to get involved in this debate. Of course, at first I would like to welcome the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities for the past 2009 I believe that this report has really put a lot of effort into making it, and the more that, in fact, in some ways already one colleague before me said the first right, so to speak, a year-long report since what happened before that was in one part of the year after the office was even established. On the other hand, I'm extremely sorry and I'm giving criticism. I think that criticism must go from all of us to the government that today, even in that opening part, was not one of the government's representatives, even if it could possibly further explain some of the things that came to the government as an opinion. So on the one hand we have a relatively let's have a broad opinion by the government, and on the other hand there was no one here this morning. And that's criticism. Maybe it was an opportunity for that health minister to come here, too, that you've been trying to set up a meeting with him for over a year. But it's not just the Minister of Health, it's the Minister of Health and Social Care. So, the ministry is one of those ministries that, in fact, in whose domain are in fact almost the most important and legal regulations and everything else that concerns in the first order and the realisation of the rights of persons with disabilities. Well, I hope in the second report for this year I'll write that you've managed to make that contact directly and with it, respecting, of course, all the functions and state secretaries. But I think Parliament's authority has the right to at least one meeting with the minister, so whatever resolution he came from. Regarding the problem, therefore, this report as well as the reports of all other attorneys for the past year point to certain problems, obstacles. In this respect and a series of prejudices still faced by persons with disabilities in Croatia, regardless of what we have a number of legal regulations for many years, we have strategies, the National Strategy. We also have policies, however, it is obvious that when in real life somewhere down there in a city that doesn't have to be the city of Zagreb, there can be any smaller place or seat of another county when it starts to exercise its rights, then unfortunately, people with disabilities are faced with being sent from door to door to door by saying so and that, that they are unable to do so. I will say today, as I said yesterday, that every case needs to be taken for itself and at least one case that can't achieve the right that this country should provide him is a case which is then worth our attention and is very important to indicate that somewhere in the system something doesn't work, and on the other hand, there is something that we still haven't been able to achieve in Croatia, which is that someone who didn't allow in this case a person with disabilities to exercise their right to answer for what he didn't do. That seems to me to be true when it comes to people with disabilities. Unfortunately, the practice is also in Croatia. On several occasions, we have pointed out through different discussions and the one problem when it comes to discrimination on any basis, that in Croatia there is chronic lack of education, education at all levels from the top I would also say through these state secretaries and directors of administration and state officials and subsistences and on local self-government from county offices, city, municipal or all possible offices we lack chronic education of people who work in these places for one side of treatment, and on the other hand the possibility that they can then provide help to the person who addresses them. So that's something that I'm not saying that only the government can do, of course it can't, but it has to start somewhere from the level of certain institutions, to include in this safe and broad civil society, or the non-governmental sector, and I think that we can and we need to make a move, and maybe this should be the main task of saying it to all of us, in a way, so here it is, among other things, the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities. Because we often know how to say, so we've brought some kind of rulebook, we've brought some protocol, and now we've printed it on how many thousands of copies, so we've put it all down somewhere in some office somewhere, etc., but they're asking if the one who's been reading it at all, or whether it's qualified to apply what's in those regulations, protocols, and I don't know what it says, and not to say when there's still a lot of coordination between different sectors in order for some right to come true. I'd like to say a few sentences about the issue of the law and the absence of the Law on Personal Assistant. And this time I ask and ask for speed up the process to say so on the draft of the Law on Personal Assistant. We have a multi-year pilot project. It includes today, I'm sorry I don't know the exact number, but somewhere around four hundred people with disabilities who therefore need a personal assistant. I don't know if you know the exact number, so I don't think you know, I think you're assuming somewhere around 12,000 people in Croatia would have the right to a personal assistant. So I'm asking, I insist, however you want the procedure to be done, so to make a personal assistant law, including all those who in that part will be doing every part of it, because it's a broad one, which in that law will not be just what the government says has to do, but what should be done by the non-governmental sector, and the religious institutions and broad involvement of volunteer work, etc., so it's something that I'm going to say to that multi-annual pilot project, okay, I have a number of people who use it, but all other people are still discriminated against in this right to get the right of a personal assistant. Regarding the problem of education, later employment first, I will now call back another ministry, yesterday I did the same thing when it comes to the Ombudsman's report for children, and this is the problem of the absence of two years of regulations that will regulate the issue of inclusion in the regular system of child education with developmental difficulties. We have the law, we have, but we don't have for the past two years the regulations that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has been responsible for, and that's why most of the problems arise when children need to get involved and can and should exercise the right to get involved in regular schooling, somehow it seems to me at last and it's unacceptable, and it's good, it's better for someone or possibly for the financial situation of a better or weaker school on the ground, etc., and so the rules don't exist, and that's why there's a problem. Education and employment of people with disabilities, that's a lot to talk about today. I welcome the fact that the Ombudsman in this report has put a particularly high emphasis on the issue of education, i.e. the employment of persons with disabilities, and we also need to move there, and this is primarily in the part that concerns stopping in Croatia to educate people with disabilities for occupations with which they cannot be competitive on the labour market nowadays. So in this sense, again, there is much more coordination needed, much more so I would say the accelerated creation of programs and policies that will allow disabled people to be educated for the professions they are looking for because of their future competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54566	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Sobol mentioned discrimination when it comes to a personal assistant project. She's not here, she's not exactly a colleague. There is no discrimination there, the Law on a personal assistant cannot see the light of day until the moment until it functions the unique body of art, because now, you're talking about 12 thousand people with disabilities who would be entitled to it, but we don't know who the person with the most difficult kind of disability is today. 100 percent damage in people with disabilities is not either, is not the condition that someone with disabilities is. Body damage doesn't always mean disability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54568	Thank you. And we have two replicas. One is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54569	When you mentioned the person, you first referred to children with developmental difficulties, it should be pointed out that unfortunately there is not much to say about people with mental disorders, or even about their accommodation in psychiatric institutions, or what their treatment is. Unfortunately, it is only from the report of the Ombudsman of the People’s Republic of Slovenia that we can see that here, during the review of the prison hospital, data have been obtained that it is on average 4-5 months for the Ministry of Health and Social Care to decide on the selection of an institution in which innumerable accommodation will be carried out, although it is by law on persons, on protection of persons with mental disorders, the Ministry of Health and Social Care must do so within three days. So they get such a single manual, maybe a day or two before the 6-month deadline on which forced hospitalization was set. These are difficult things, ultimately in the latest report by the European Commission on Croatia's 2009 progress, it is said that no progress has been made in the field of mental health protection. So, there is also a need to find places in the report itself, but it is even less important that the government, through its resolute ministries, should take care of this burning problem. That I am not also reading certain situations now, where it has been observed that in certain psychiatric institutions they go as prisoners in identical pajamas, and therefore this is also a great grudge for the European Commission because it does not then take into account the resociation of even the improvement of those persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54570	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54571	I thank my colleagues Ingrid for the replica, with this I would, I very much believe that the Ombudsman and in his closing statement will say perhaps more about this problem because I simply view it as the first real report of the year and that in the following reports we will read more about this issue and through the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities. But while I would like to remind us all together that we have recently debated the Health Protection Act, I think it was, too, nicely abolished by the Croatian Institute of Mental Health. The only Croatian Institute of Mental Health to explain that we have abolished it because it has not actually brought it back to life in these two years. So much for the problem of people with mental disorders. I would like to warn once again and through this replica that, in my opinion, it is already unwarrantedly late or delaying or not finishing work when it comes to a single body for the question of art. It also warns the lawyer and, of course, that we, as Comrade Lukacic warned, are only talking about assumptions and the assumed number of persons who could exercise the right to a personal assistant.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54572	Thank you. ... Please don't throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So now you're talking, and I warned her. Give me a minute. And another replica, the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54573	Thank you very much. Fellow Sobol just now you have told one truth, which is that various acts, laws, proposals are simply brought down into the local community, and then the local community is naturally expected much and needed and has great responsibility. But very often, however, it just doesn't have what it does, what it does, how much. There are no evaluations, and we have a problem that there are no major improvements. And then you happen to people with special needs, children, or people with disabilities expect a lot because they have legal solutions, they have legal frameworks. On the other hand, you have the inability to carry out all of this and for the reasons that we are today, and this simply comes to conflict with those people with the local community. And there's one problem, because it's not all figured out. That is why there is a large legislative framework, and in reality, we have big problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54574	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54575	My colleagues, I'm only going to add one more time here or I'm going to do it again. Croatia is chronically lacking in education, education of all those who are obliged to implement adopted laws, regulations, strategies and policies, on the one hand, education. On the other hand, we miss the rules of individual laws that individual ministries have not passed. It's not just about people with disabilities, it's about other cases. And I'm saying that in that part, we're doing steps, shifts that probably a lot less people who have to eventually address and the D.A.'s Office for Persons with Disabilities would be smaller because the one who's down there directly in contact with these people would know exactly what he has to do and what way to do it. And in that part, I appeal once again that in terms of education, but then we must very broadly include different not only state institutions but also NGOs to make these steps in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54576	Now, on behalf of the proposing representative, the esteemed Anka Slonjšak, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54577	Thank you. Well, here's what I'd like to comment on is Mrs. Ingrid Antičević's quote on mental disturbances. The Association of Mental Disturbations "Sjaj", we have just established contact with them in the past year, at the end of last year precisely at the implementation of this social reform now concerning the support of persons with disabilities who will be guaranteed this adoption of how the unique bodies of the list of damages, i.e. the unique bodies of art, and thus the support that each damage to its individual needs should be ensured.' As far as persons with mental disorders are concerned, they are not still on the unique list of damages and are not even declared as persons with disabilities in that segment. And there's basically one big problem exactly with people with intellectual difficulties. Although the Convention on the Rights of Persons advocates and is just saying that all those who have long-term sensory, mental, intellectual or physical impairments are among the obstacles that society is making to them, that is how their inclusion will be based on an equal basis with others in the community. And we have indeed made good contact with the Association for Mental Disturbation and, of course, according to that reporting period, that is, this report was made according to those damages, that is to say, to those persons who addressed us as individuals and as institutions, institutions and associations, and on that basis, we have made this report for 2009 without specificising, entering only one damage in this segment and the issue of mental disturbances. As far as the Mental Health Center is concerned, we have knowledge, and we were just at the establishment of a mental health center that we hope will be at the clinic of Zagreb, and the primaryia of Dr. Kramarić is the founder of this centre, and we hope that it will indeed live adequately and that he will get his premises within this clinical hospital center so that what is needed for such damage can be obtained in one place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54578	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the distinguished representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. Today I'm going to start this maybe a little bit and emotionally for the reason I've decided to have this debate over all my friends who are people with disabilities. Not just Mrs. Lukacic's MPs, but all my friends in others, they're painters, artists. My colleague, I hope he sees who is a doctor of science as a disabled person with a lot of praise and he said the same thing when we talked about this institution of the Attorney's Office with people with disabilities and today is a special day for us that after a year we get a report from this office. Of course, the debate is very good, especially the one that is a constructive debate with constructive proposals. The Attorney General's report also notes both the advantage and the ambition. And thank you for all your remarks and all the good things you've said and, of course, with the warnings you're meeting. It was nice to read that the general objective of the report is to promote and involve people with disabilities in society in order to inform persons with disabilities and to take all measures to promote and implement these rights and access to institutions, information that is necessary for a more independent and quality life which creates preconditions for creating a society of equal opportunities. Well, I have to say that we wouldn't be talking here today if they weren't here before 2000, when one parliamentary representative was very, very active, and that's today's Prime Minister, I think you all know that, when she warned and gave full support to every 13. 2. on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and pointed to non-accessible facilities. and when HDZ came to power in 2004 and the new Government entered the project to address the accessibility of persons with disabilities, so 67 adjustments to 45 units of local and regional (regional) self-government were co-financed from 2004 to 2009. I don't want to talk about funds because I don't think that's appropriate. The funds are big, the funds can be looked at. And it is very important to emphasize what it means for people with disabilities, and for those of us who hang out with them that we can go to all the places we want to visit together as friends and as a family. In 2007, the National Strategy for Equalisation of Equality for Persons with Disabilities was also adopted, and so in one way the conditions were created, and that basic prerequisite was precisely this Office of Advocates for Persons with Disabilities. And I don't think a better person could have been chosen. And it is important that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity carried out all the necessary advances for the establishment of the Ombudsman's Institute for Persons with Disabilities and provided technical assistance in the establishment of this office, as is evident and logical. And thank this government, and I hope they invest even more. Of course there are problems. Problems need to be identified, and everywhere they are, especially in this area. But those problems, so I'm... don't use those problems for political points like it starts the other day on the kids' lives, so then it's very much used to get a political point. No need, be who you are if you support people with disabilities in the sense that you want to improve everything, we want to do it ourselves, please continue to support it rather than in a way that points to something that already exists. It's good to say that you need to improve, but it's excellent to commend. And that's political affirmation, too. It's not as good as slam the door yesterday. It's good to stay until the end. What we keep going back to our personal assistant I've been watching, I'm now saying, of course, by looking at the media for which in every segment in the counsel's reports, so today I think the media doesn't play a good role. In order to give much more than one show that seems to me, it is, in fact, intended for people with disabilities or children with special needs, given or early, and we can watch it when we get up early or in an unsuitable time. I think it's Agent Lukacic, and I think the D.A.'s already talked about it, and she's taking it to get one term in which we're all going to be able to educate ourselves. Well said Mrs. Representative Sobol Education is always very important and certainly important for all of us. But maybe I'd say why she insists on the law today. Of course, the law will be, but to be implemented, if we don't know today and we never know the exact number, but if we don't have an indicative number of people who need an assistant, then we can't insist on the law, and we can't talk about that, regardless of what this ministry means for five years from 2006, we've started implementing a personal assistant project that's not good. Because if that's not good today, most of it has to be agreed by the D.A. I'm sure and I have to tell my friends, I just couldn't function. Well, it's important that it's excellent and it's important to say that the law will be made. But if, in this way, already with 100 thousand new users in 2011, secure funds, don't disrespect it. And especially the MPs, you see, I always talk to all of us not in a special one way to warn you because you're a person with disabilities, for me you're just a person. I mean, don't disrespect your personal assistant, don't do that. For those who have it and who need it do not agree with you. It may be true to educate her in some way, and she is a lawyer, and she wrote in her report that there may be something to fix the law in that matter, in order to know who can have a personal assistant. Of course, in all segments of society needs are increased. This government, headed by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, I don't know how to tell you this, without realizing it in one inappropriate way, has really given full support to everyone, she's stood up, so we can finally see it here, let's say, to the Children's Hospital in Bistra where our Prime Minister has been coming since 2000, as Parliament's representative, she's also come as Deputy Prime Minister, and she's also coming as President. And that's why I thank the D.A.'s office, and I hope that in the second report, we'll see the problems equally, because neither are you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54580	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sumrak, you have encouraged me to rephrase it to you, and I am very pleased that when you have less knowledge about it than the rest of us, you mentioned today's Prime Minister as a representative who, along with people with disabilities, walked all over Croatia, or wearing banners, pointed to inaccessible objects, a violation of the rights of persons with disabilities, etc. Why did I have to say this? Well, because she's the one who's been representing the government, and she's still the Deputy Prime Minister, and she's doing it today as Prime Minister, she's been empowering people with disabilities. Strengthening people with disabilities is extremely important. Here I will refer briefly to what the Ombudsman mentioned in her report, which is the participation of people with disabilities in political and public life. The Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, has strengthened many people with disabilities on this issue, so I dare say here we are also present representatives, colleague Škulić and myself, regardless of what we belong to different political options. But allow me, it is extremely commendable that people with disabilities have their own representatives in the Croatian Parliament, that people with disabilities are engaged, represented in city councils and at local level at all, but cannot do so only by the Government, not even a lawyer can do so. Here I am, and this way I call on people with disabilities to activate themselves, to do something that is good for them, and it's good for them to participate where they decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54582	Thank you. Second replica, distinguished representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, this is not how I can do it, I wouldn't be singing praises right now because I'm the vice president, the president didn't get strong, I got stronger long before, so back in the '90s when we were in the Homeland War, I was at the radio station, she was on the radio. So I am strengthened thanks to my parents and support in the family. At the end of the day, I was brought into politics by the SDP. So much for empowerment. As for this other one, I'd like to replicate Mrs. twilight. The national strategy, dear Mrs. Sumrak, hasn't existed since 2007, but since 2003, I don't know if you've known that information, and unfortunately since 2003, since the 10th month and it hasn't been implemented. This national strategy has not been implemented, as this one has not been implemented. I don't know how many measures were taken from this national strategy. So it's a first. Secondly, why the deadlines are not respected, why does not respect the equalisation of the right that the first national strategy has also suggested in the final terms, as predicted by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And what did you do last Friday? You raised your hand for discrimination you excluded 300 blind people from the Road Law, you participated directly in discrimination. So, so much for that. It's not true that the pilot project has existed since 2005, this as far as the personal assistant is concerned, and believe me, if anyone knows better what personal assistant means, I know it. I also welcome all those friends of mine who don't have a personal assistant, given how many there are, no matter how many of them they were, and they need an assistant, and a lot of them are over 400. So why isn't there a law that was supposed to be finished in 2007?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54584	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54585	We can't argue that we don't have a single body of art that we should have long ago, long, long ago founded.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54586	Thank you. Replication response. The Honorable representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54587	Representative Škulić, it's nice to have you repeat it and repeat it, always the same thing, but it's great to know the true state of things so that you can repeat it forever. I'm very pleased to know that the attorney general will certainly be made aware of some of your allegations that I wouldn't want to correct for you right now, but I'm asking the lawyer to make it right. On the other hand, in 2006 by project, I'm sorry if I misstated the national strategy the wrong year, but I was thinking about 2006, I was talking about a personal assistant. So that's what I was thinking, I wasn't talking about the strategy that you just fixed for me. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54588	Please, not from the bench. So let's leave it to you, let's let the others, let's not throw it to each other. And now we have a replica. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54589	Thank you. I react with this replica, I don't think I'm holding, I'm not tasked with keeping panegirics to anyone, at least members of the government or Prime Ministers, but I'm asking to be respected that life in this country didn't begin in 2004. The project, but under a different name, personal assistant started in 2000. The first single National Strategy for Persons with Disabilities was adopted at the end of 2003, which was stopped and not implemented, what was written inside was not implemented but a "new" national strategy was adopted in 2007 in which most of the 2003 measures were prescribed. It's okay, it's overwritten, but the problem is that the national strategy that was then adopted in 2007 is not being implemented in accordance with what's in it. So if it says that it is necessary to pass the Law on a personal assistant, then my colleague, Sumrak, is as Parliament's advocates to seek, and I think it is the task of every parliamentary representative and MP to ask the officials to write and deliver the law here in the procedure to the Croatian Parliament. Because, among other things, because of the absence of a personal assistant law, we all know that not all those who might be able to participate in a pilot project that has been implemented under one name since 2000 and under the name of a personal assistant has been implemented since 2005 and 2006, respectively. That's what we're talking about here today. So nobody argues that in Croatia and in terms of persons with disabilities we have brought a series of proposals, a series of acts, etc. But let's argue that when we're here alone again, we do it to introduce new discrimination through some other laws or not to execute what it says in the National Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54590	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54591	Representative Sobol, here we are now in that situation that I do not want to use here for some kind of political promotion. I don't think that's right. I agree. And we're all up for it. The government of the Republic of Croatia has advocated that we reach today's report. One year after that, we got a report from the D.A.'s office with people with disabilities. I think it's, of course, the merit of all the agents who have sought and advocated. I would not agree with you if life had begun in 2000. Believe me, it's not. For me, it started in the 1990s, and it started when we got our own state of Croatia and don't laugh Mrs. Sobol, because before that you probably wouldn't be able to discuss it like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54592	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. But I would still ask you to start talking about the subject a little bit, closer on the subject, and that's about the report. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54593	Thank you, Vice President. I'll try to talk about the content of the report itself. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will support this report, and I believe that it is very good in the body disability section. However, in this presentation, I would like to draw attention to some of the shortcomings in this report, which also concerns the very actions of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, in the hope that in the future you will remove perceived irregularities and shortcomings and pay more attention to the rights of persons with mental disorders and reduced intelligence. I heard your argument that you gave to your esteemed colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, and I heard what you said on the Committee on Gender Equality. However, on this occasion, I would like to remind you that the Republic of Croatia has ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and that this Convention defines exactly what persons with disabilities are, and that international conventions are above the laws of the Republic of Croatia and that, therefore, there is, in my opinion, a framework quite well established for your conduct and according to the meaning of these persons. As I said at the Committee on Gender Equality, I was contacted by representatives and representatives of the association "Sjaj", and the Association for Self-representation and asked me to present here in principle their comments and comments on this report. One of these comments refers to the Association for Self-representation, that the language in which the report is written is quite complicated for people who are directly involved in this report, so they proposed in this regard because they understand, of course, that the report should have this form because it comes to the Croatian Parliament. But it might be bad to prepare a report that would be written in a more understandable and simple language with perhaps more images and less text, and in a way that would make such a report more understandable to them than it is now. The second objection, meaning these associations, refers to the Ombudsman’s assessment that institutions that care with people with mental disorders and persons with reduced intellectual abilities function well as they judge the associations with concern. In fact, living conditions in these institutions are far from good in their opinion. People who are users and users of these institutions are often denied the right to freedom. Their rights are broken every day. And that's why the attorney general's work assessments of the institutions are asking representatives and representatives of the associations if the lawyer spoke directly to the users of these institutions and heard their opinion, not the opinion of the persons working there. The situation in such institutions, according to representatives and representatives of these associations, is indeed terrible, and the users of these institutions are unfortunately treated as prisoners in prison. And in my opinion, it's terrible that in the 21st century we still have such institutions with such governance could be said. And they protest that you are not speaking in your report on the necessity of closing such institutions. I would remind you here that former Secretary of State Nino Žganec announced the closure of such institutions several years ago. However, the closure of such institutions has not occurred today in Croatia. Even more open and new institutions of this type are being built. Associations ask why to work in fact the difference between people with disabilities, so there are double criteria in the treatment of people with intellectual difficulties in relation to persons with physical disabilities, and that is not a good attitude, and I agree with them, in fact, a defender who should work to combat discrimination between individual groups, rather than increasing the difference between people on the basis of their disability. This specifically refers to a personal assistance that we have had many opportunities to hear about today. Although you have on pages 45 and 46 of the report stated that several civil society organisations dealing with the protection of the rights of intellectual and mental damage have addressed your office with a complaint of discrimination over an unequal approach to the personal assistance service in the report, it is unfortunately not seen whether you have found discrimination with any concrete complaints or have taken such actions, or whether it is your jurisdiction in the sense of the law to combat discrimination. They believe that you have done exactly the opposite, that the report stresses that a policy of non-recognition of the possibility of personal assistance for persons with mental disorders and intellectual difficulties is justified because it is an important prerequisite for personal assistance that I now quote a person can manage his life on his own, make decisions, express his wishes and demands to another person. In other words, the Ombudsman considers that persons with mental disorders or intellectual difficulties are unable to manage their own lives, make decisions or express themselves, and such claims are unacceptable. Here I remind you that Article 19b. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Republic of Croatia ratified in 2007, recognised the same right for all persons with disabilities to live in a community with the right of choice as well as for other persons, and that effective and appropriate measures would be taken to facilitate the full enjoyment of this right and full participation and participation in the community, including ensuring access to a wide range of services, including personal assistance needed to support life and involvement in the community, as well as to prevent isolation or segregation from the community. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the Convention provides for the definition of persons with disabilities as I have already stated, where those persons and those who have mental or intellectual impairments are also referred to as persons with intellectual or mental impairments, so the Convention with the full scope of Article 19.b applies to persons with intellectual or mental impairment, which also recognises the right of persons with such damage to personal assistance. So, here I would like to stress that in your report you have mainly dealt with the problem of persons with physical disabilities, i.e. that you have only dealt marginally with the problem of people with intellectual difficulties and mental disorders, you justify it in a way that you have been more addressed to you by persons with physical disability than these other persons, however, I consider that the institution of the attorney, regardless of whether it is the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities of the Ombudsman or the lawyer or the lawyer for the rights of the web should act proactively, and I think that you have actually failed to perform a certain proactive role in this regard. I would also like to, I don't know how difficult this is and how complicated it is, but since this report is being dealt with directly with by persons who have a certain kind of disability, that this report is except that, what should be written means in this other, shorter and simpler form, it may also be available on the barber, so that the persons who are undersighted or blind can also read the content of your report. Finally, I appeal to you to make further efforts in the future, i.e. greater efforts in terms of coverage and rights of persons with these disturbances, i.e. with this type of disability, because in this way you will certainly act in the direction of countering discrimination among people who are unfortunately discriminated against in society by themselves, so here I would stress it also in the end that the support of the requirements laid down by the Association of SJJA and the Association for Self-representation was given by the International Organisation for the Protection of Human Rights... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54594	Thank you. We have one replica, it's the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54595	What you said and on the trail of knowledge of the Association of SJJ also spoke about by the Committee on Human Rights of the United Nations, in its periodic report of the Republic of Croatia, which in its final discussions expresses serious concerns about the rights, human rights and violations of fundamental human rights of persons with mental difficulties. There is also concern about the lack at local level of an adequate mental health protection service, as they are of crucial importance just to treat those persons locally, thereby reducing the institutionalisation of those persons. Unfortunately, the government did not do it, but also abolished the Central Institute of Mental Health, and at the time these cases were terrible, a large number of suicides, murders, the entire government should be raised up, for it is no problem, it abolishes the Department of Mental Health. This is a serious problem, however, the government does not recognise the problem. In the government, everyone is happy and happy, we should praise the moves, probably then send to the Prime Minister and postcards to whom she has abolished free transport, or where you will now have to pay toll, so maybe to get a postcard from each of those stations. You shouldn't have saved on that. One more thing to think about can be wrong, I agree, but it needs to be corrected by people, people with such difficulties can't save the government from this crisis that it's essentially produced itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54596	I have to say, distinguished MPs, it's a good example of how you shouldn't respond to a replica, because there was no speech at all in the basic debate. I'm asking you to really stick to the subject. Don't do this, please. And now it's the honourable representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. My colleagues have not abolished the centre so that no one is working on mental health anymore, but is attached to the Croatian Institute of Public Health. I'm sorry there's no transmission now, but you kept saying that it was abolished as a center, and it wasn't an out-of-work activity, and it's incorrect that there's no concern about it. That's really incorrect. But when we talk about this report, I would really commend him because it's exhaustive and personal when I think about people with disabilities, then I always start from how the whole society needs to regain consciousness on human rights protection for people with disabilities. However, on the other hand, a large number of people with disabilities are not aware that the violation of their rights as persons with disabilities, e.g. The inability to access information, education, employment or health services is indeed a violation of their fundamental human rights. That's exactly what the D.A. also warned by processing 962 cases. People with disabilities often live alone or with an older family member, and there are cases that because of various living circumstances, of which we particularly issue a health condition, a transport problem, life in remote places are not able to claim their rights by personal arrival in competent institutions. When it comes to children with developmental difficulties, parents cannot leave them alone, and there are cases where, like, even family members because of the severity of disability, they cannot leave their neighbor to an adult. In the report, we will also come to a social care centre system where, in the future, the priority is to expand social and health services networks for people with disabilities, with the emphasis again on rural areas, the assumption is the decentralisation of social services and the development of social services networks at local level, but we talked about it yesterday and in 2007 signed an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the social inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in which deinstitutionalisation is highlighted as one of the main challenges. The report very well describes the centres visited by the Ombudsman, but when we talk about people with mental retardation and associated developmental disorders I would like to commend indeed the Centre for Rehabilitation "Mir Rudine" where 60 users are located. It is organized in separate living rooms with 6 persons with 2 each in each room, each of these living rooms, small houses have a separate living room, there is kitchen, dining room, bathroom, toilet. Users have the possibility of washing laundry, dryers, the possibility of preparing simple meals, but also the possibility of creating daily free time, encouraging personal interests, etc. It is commendable that the center has developed some specialized forms of accommodation. The possibility of temporary user accommodation during the absence of parents, e.g. during their treatment, etc. Not to mention getting involved in the labour market, one excellent communication with the local self-government unit, with the local population. And any commendation in this place to a colleague, Lucius Chikesh, who, even in Europe, was named "Lucia" for all that can be done with those people she worked with. I'd also look back at employment in the end. In practice, complaints are often made by persons with disabilities that employers are not adequately informed about the abilities and opportunities of disabled persons or about the incentives of the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of such persons. There are not enough workshops, it is true, in which such persons would be employed and the difficult environment is in education, in educational programmes, as the Ombudsman pointed out. It is unacceptable to still educate people in the labour market today who will work as telephones and other examples. I think protection workshops are unusually important for people who, based on their working and general abilities, cannot be employed in the open labour market. One such workshop is "Suvenir Arbor Vitae Sirac" which employs 63 people of which are 42 with disabilities. The facility was also established on the basis of the "Suvenir Sirac" facility, which was founded in '74. year, so a 30-year tradition. However, certain problems have arisen so that in 2006, the Bjelovar-Bilogor County is the founder and has invested 8 million kuna. In your report, you have in some way shown concern about the existence of that institution and its functioning, but I can assure you of that because indeed everything is being done and we are all so concerned about the county aware that this institution survives, especially the County of Bjelovar-Bilogorska who works a lot, which co-finances along with the Fund. However, the difficulties that arise, you know that this is actually about products in the wood industry, and in this crisis, of course, there are major problems and that the board of directors will, together with the fund, try to solve these problems in finding new programmes and opportunities to be placed on the market. And this institution, unfortunately, as in many institutions, has a problem hiring certain persons, namely not as much in paying as in the fact that we do not have such persons. The orphan is further away from the centre of Bjelovar and rarely anyone comes forward, but it certainly needs to be insisted that we have a defector and a social worker in that institution because there are a number of people with mental impairment who cannot function as healthy persons and I think that this determines the ratio of 70% of people with disabilities to 30% under the quotes of "healthy people". It is therefore impossible to be profitable on the labour market and thus compete. It is commendable that this institution really cooperates well with training and helps children from the Centre for the Training of Children with difficulty in developing Rudolph Steiner, which is indeed commendable. So, in some ways, if you'll excuse me, but I have to scrutinize the municipality of Sirač who in some way is not sensitized or I don't know why, but I could also free the municipal council from paying communal fees to such an institution and in some way help her. And finally, at the beginning, I mentioned raising the level of awareness of the entire society. We know what kind of problems we've encountered, removing architectural barriers. Here, I'm glad that my colleague Ljubica was in Bjelovar and she saw what we did on that part. However, I would also point out that it is important to promote the level of consciousness and raise awareness of the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities should start from kindergarten. Often parents who are responsible, who have children with developmental disabilities, want to put a child in kindergarten and find an obstacle there because aunts are needed and then advise them is still too early, so it should only be 2 hours so let the child be guarded by grandmothers or someone else. Therefore, if they have all the certificates, documentation and specialists and doctors and doctors for rehabilitation with the recommendation that such a child should go to kindergarten, then it means that aunts, or that kindergarten should receive it, and not one refuses, and the other kindergarten of the same category receives it. So this means that we all need to work together to equalise the opportunities of people with disabilities to promote consciousness, and from early youth precisely from that day-to-day kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54598	Thank you. And now we have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54599	Thank you. So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Caparin that it is not true that the Croatian Institute of Mental Health has been abolished. He was one of the 5 state institutions and he was abolished, which are institutions carrying out professional, scientific and research health activities from the framework of the rights and duties of the Republic of Croatia in the field of public health activities, medical work, transfusion medicine and mental health. The latest amendments to the Health Protection Act have just abolished the Croatian Institute of Mental Health. Only now, public health services will establish centres that cannot perform the role of the State Health Institute. Then why aren't the others lifted?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54600	Thank you. Let's move on. We have three replicas. First is Honorable Representative Jerko Roshin, come in. ... Please, Jerko Roshin. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. ... Can I say two letters? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54602	Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54603	Yes, thank you. On the trail of what my colleague Caparin said about the architectural barriers and about the report that was given that I support and it was done very well, fully considered. The theme of architectural barrier management may not be as much as I think it should be. In fact, legislation absolutely foresees in all new constructions that any architectural barriers should be lifted to compensate in a different way. In this respect, too, great results have been made in the amendments to the legislation. However, the problem remains with those facilities that were built before and which failed in time. These problems, therefore, would I say because they do not have everything that should be allowed to be dealt with mainly by the issue of donations, the question of goodwill, good people, and then in some schools, lifts are built up to make up for it all together. This problem of lack of funds, not consciousness, but a lack of funds and neither legislation, but a lack of resources to solve some problems shows the problem of Rudin, which was spoken of by counterpart Caparin and shows a number of cases where various humanitarian organisations worked not to bid their names and names, but certainly projects such as last year's project in Split, two kindergartens for children with special needs that could not be integrated into classical kindergarten. And so is the project "Be a Good Samaritan" that will go forward this year. And I support the insistence of my colleague on the term of a person with disabilities rather than with disabilities. It's a formal difference, not just a language difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54604	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, my colleague. The particular problem is with old buildings, however, it is very important that the project started somewhere in 2004 when more than 30 cities, 6 counties and three municipalities were included, and then the Family Ministry allocated 8 million kunas to adapt such facilities. But fortunately now, new objects that are operated under the law must of course have these conditions. That's too bad, but those old buildings, I think they should be torn down sooner than anything they can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54606	Thank you. Second Replicated representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Caparin. You've been keeping a very close eye on the D.A.'s report for people with disabilities. However, as we definitely must say, there is much more to be done for us to have more successful application and documents delivered, as well as those to be delivered. However, I did not want to correct the allegations, but in any case it is necessary to encourage and support the pro-active role of the Ombudsman along with her associates and to say that Croatia has actually come out of historical silence by signing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as the third country of the world as well as the 4th country in the world to ratify that convention. So here's our full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54608	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54609	Thank you very much. I must stress to you, indeed, that we have signed this convention among the first, Madam Prime Minister, and that there are all these laws that the Advocate General has cited that are just talking about equating the possibility of a person with disabilities that we all need to work on together. Of course, there is an important frame that we need to educate to help with all of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54610	Thank you. And now the replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I really support is this affirmative debate of colleague Caparin, and this proves something that I'm happy about today and everyone who replicates, that people understand the problem, that they understand the problems of people with disabilities and that they know how to talk about them, which up to here a few years ago we didn't have a case. When you spoke to colleagues Caparin about hiring a disabled person, then I only briefly want to relate to how most important we are to support the employment of persons with disabilities in the open labour market. This is what everyone needs to be goal and interest, that at any time and in any case protection workshops, but not prioritized. Therefore, those with disabilities who cannot work in the open labour market should be allowed to work in protective workshops, and we should all try to make the priority an open labour market. And I have to say a little bit more, let me. It is not affirmative, and it is not as good as the SDP counterparts do, as counterpart Ingrid Anticevic did in such a way that the government or the Prime Minister stole something, or took away the right to free transport. Well, that's actually funny. No one took anything away from anyone, but only a revision of this law was made which was already to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54612	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54613	Thank you very much. We absolutely support each other's protection workshops and the presence on the labour market. However, I stressed how important it is that such workshops have professionals such as social work, a defectologist, so persons with disabilities will be helped. Because they can't achieve that product like "healthy" people. And such workshops should be in some way and a certain proportion different than the one in the Cheese. Of course, then you need to know how much that person in his workflow can give, when to have a vacation, when to be stimulated, when to be told. Because workers who have been working for almost all their working lives are now on their way to retirement, so they can't do what they used to do anymore. Now they need to be directed as to their disability as to whether or not they stay where they are or are able to make a pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54614	Thank you. And the last one after an individual debate, Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54615	The availability of normal everyday life for people with disabilities is actually an index and concern for society’s openness to such persons. Because the real test is involving people with disabilities in the regular labour market, but in order to be possible for people with disabilities, adequate education must be available. I'll just say a few words especially what I'm last about education. This is more if we distinguish between within the education sector two types of activities of education systems, on the one hand regular formal education, and on the other hand additional education that we today call lifelong learning. And inside of them are actually two aspects, one is physical, and the other is physical building, and the other is institutionally programmable. As far as the physical and construction work is concerned, it would somehow be expected to set an initiative of building standards that would allow persons with physical disabilities to access and somehow be the place of attorney for people with disabilities who could contribute at the level of just one new legal regulation that would establish building standards, not only in new buildings but also in the old ones for people with disabilities. That's more like what I think most of the time, it's about very small construction interventions that cost a little bit, and they get very big results. I find this second aspect much more complex, the institutional-programme aspect of adaptation and adaptation to developed countries of the world, let's measure ourselves with European countries, we have done very little in this respect. On the one hand, we have relatively little or almost nothing differentiated programmes, specific differentiated programmes, but much more interesting are those common programs attended by people with disabilities, so students and students with disabilities who, however, are assumed to have additional educational activities within educational institutions, at school primarily. It's about school psychologists, it's about pedagogues, it's about defectologists, it's about therapists, it's about school medicine, it's about the ultimate convention in specially trained teachers who could do specific tasks with children, students and students with disabilities. And here, Madam Attorney, I see a very big danger. The government's economic recovery measures on page 24 provide for reducing non-school staff. Croatia is now particularly poor with school psychologists, educators, therapists, social workers, etc. If this is further reduced, it will not be possible to work seriously and adequately with people with disabilities Second, it seems to me that, with these regular programs, it may be necessary to pay much more attention to the forms of lifelong learning. As far as I know, in developed European countries there are several dozen programmes adapted for people with disabilities in the form of lifelong but regular education. Therefore, efforts should also be made in Croatia, by making the forms of lifelong learning the most efficient, cheapest and, in fact, contributing to the modernisation of labour force to labour market needs within a relatively short period of time and with relatively small expenditures. So it seems to me that there is also a need to make additional efforts, and somehow, forgive me for being immodest, I expect from you an initiative towards both the Ministry of Education and the Agency for Education that they meet those needs that your service establishes as necessary in order to improve the situation. The more life-long learning can do, the easier it is for an additional education of educators to say so, the further training of teachers for special purposes in what we're talking about. So, architectural standards in all public institutions, construction architectural standards in all schools, so all educational institutions, not only in schools and private and public, so whoever wants to be a school. Because it's in everyone's interest that people with disabilities get involved in regular, therefore, normal forms of life, because actually social inclusion contributes to social cohesion, which is if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Vice President, and the task of the social state. This is my contribution to your work in the hope that one part of the suggestion will be adopted and perhaps in the next report you will already boast of additional successes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54616	Thank you. And 5 minutes on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. To begin with, I don't think there was any revision regarding the law that was abolished because the Prime Minister said she didn't know what the measure was going on, so there was no revision but an ad hoc billing. But when we talk about the problems of people with disabilities, I get the feeling that we can call her, we should, we could, we brought it in, we signed it, but we're not implementing, and no one's answering for it. Discrimination based on disability means any distinction, exclusion or restriction on the basis of the disability which it has for the purpose or consequence of harming or repealing the recognition of enjoyment or use equally with other persons of all human rights and based freedoms in political, economic, social, cultural, civil and other areas. It includes all forms of discrimination, including the denial of a reasonable adjustment. That's why I'm expressing regret on behalf of the SDP club. Why is this session not translated into sign language for deaf and deaf persons because they are also part of the population of people with disabilities. I believe that this will not happen in the future and that the right to information will be respected. Reasonable adjustment means necessary and appropriate modification, setting where necessary. In particular, to ensure equal enjoyment or use of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for people with disabilities. Regardless of these examples of positive practices which are individual colleagues' instructions, I think this is a matter of systematic policy that must be based on regulated and enforceable laws. The bodies of the state administration should not call for sensitivity but for commitment. They are just a service to citizens who separate each month for their and our salaries, including crisis taxes. Once again, I will mention the discrimination this House has supported by voting on amending the Roads Act. We've discriminated against 300 civilian blind people, and then we can't say it's a revision. Also, there can be no excuse for not having a unique body of art. It only serves the government as an alibi for not passing the law, not just a personal assistant where discrimination is actually conducted no matter how we interpret it. We can't lead politics on assumptions, and that's exactly what the government is doing. Unfortunately, we do not have a minister who recognizes social care, and with his attitude he ignores the problems raised by the lawyer. There is also no system that monitors politics towards people with disabilities. Please take a look at the pages of the Ministry of Family and Defence. When you look at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you will see that it has not changed since 2006. Otherwise, the commission is obliged to propose and give an opinion to the Law on Persons with Disabilities. The list of members of the commission is still dead. The Prime Minister is being led as the chairman of the commission, and she is no longer, although through these small examples we will get a picture and a failure of the system. Also, I welcome finally the representative of Mr Adamic's government. And finally, I would like to thank the D.A.'s attorney for the patience that was everything to her team and who put together this good report. I believe they will respect all our remarks regardless, because this is not about politics. That doesn't mean we're providing an ugly picture and we need to be affirmative, but we need to identify the problems and we need to solve them. That's why the SDP club will accept the Attorney General's report for people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54618	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm supposed to make all this right, what my colleague said, but since I don't have that kind of time, I only have two corrections. It is not true, colleague Škulić, that what we have brought, signed, etc. We're not having a good time, and you know it. But you're persistent and systematicly misleading the public. Another thing that's not true is that the Roads Act has made some kind of discrimination. So what are you talking about? And you know it very well, but it's good for you to be supported by the public. There is no discrimination under the Public Roads Act. It's just been done the way it's supposed to be a long time ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54620	A second correction to an incorrect quote. Please don't throw it out of the bench! Please! We have further adjudication of the inaccuracy of the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54621	Thank you very much. Out of all the above mentioned by Commissioner Lukačić, we can also correct your incorrect assumption that the picture of the system is undefined and that nothing is being implemented. That was the correction. Thank you, Mrs. Lukacic, and politics I hope you will realize that it is not for the sake of improvement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54622	Thank you. And now it's an honorary Anka Slunšak, attorney for people with disabilities. Final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54623	Thank you. First of all, I'd just like to make a comment on Mrs. Holly's representative regarding the allegations she made. The Office is indeed acting in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and in this way we are always calling for and trying to really warn, encourage, make proposals in this particular segment that the legislation is indeed Croatian in accordance with the Convention signed, ratified, and whose report we will soon hope to be completed and to present it to those in charge. As for persons with intellectual difficulties and mental, or intellectual, mental impairment, the office has indeed described in this report, and it cannot be said that we have not really worked with all the difficulties because we have visited just the institutions in which people with intellectual difficulties and multiple damages are located precisely for the very reason that as many offices as possible meet, i.e. my associates as well as myself personally with problems and specificities concerning such damages. Because you have to know and again I stress the office is a year, a year and a half in this function and it is constantly forgotten that in 2009, we had employment until 1.4. For me, 1.4 are the last associates we can say so, and most of them have not been specifically familiar with all the damages I have personally. We need to know that it is about persons with disabilities who are different damages and are involved in all areas of life as well as any other citizen of this country. And it's really one big and complex, one complex area that we can't sum up all and all the damages in one report. If we'd gone deep into any damage, I think this report might have been 2,000 pages, not 250. I was really trying to cut it short. My associates know. We cut it from 500 pages to 250. I heard and commented that our report is too detailed, i.e. in the sense that it is too large and that for the next report for 2010 we will go with a shorter summary and we will really do it in order to be specific and that everyone is trying to read the entire report. Because it is this problem that some MPs have expressed that they have not read the whole, but only that area that has touched them in terms of their actions. So it is very important for us to just read the entire report and comment on it as we heard it today. We, as I said, visited the institutions from Stančić to Vrlika, to Mirudina, to Split Juraj Bonaci where they are educated and located persons with intellectual and multiple damages. Then we also owned protective workshops where employees of people with intellectual damage are the highest and multiple damages. So really, as far as assistance is concerned, I've explained it to you on the board, and I can repeat it again, it's not my problem, just to point out that the personal assistant in this way that is now made in terms of the pilot project are the criteria set out which explain the exact term of the personal assistant. It is intended for people who have intellectual damage so capable that they can order their assistant to improve their quality of life in the sense that their abilities and their skills have, and because of their most difficult degree of disability they cannot improve and cannot... to help that personal assistant, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are in favour of deinstitutionalisation being carried out and continuing to implement and the office's position is indeed such that for those persons who cannot be located in a different way, i.e. who must be located in an institution for reasons that their environment services cannot provide them at this time, unfortunately, and such a situation as they are. However, we all seek deinstitutionalisation to enable in all areas the service that will be possible to provide these persons and all persons with damages to get them actively involved and to live in smaller housing communities, to live in residential buildings in apartments with the help of systematic support, whether it will be an assistant, I do not know whether he will be called a nurse, means everything that is necessary for that person regardless of its type of damage. It is very important for us to be in this direction and to recognize that in the office's position it is precisely in terms of deinstitutionalisation, and certainly not institutionalisation, because we are constantly talking about inclusion, we are seeking it, and in this segment we all have to work on it together. However, if there is no service service, and if there is no systematic support in the community, or in the smaller environments, then we cannot concretely implement this measure of deinstitutionalisation. I need another one here and an example, we say this example we're stressing physically we're a lot, we say again that we started with all the damages that are in that group, then we'd have the area of diabetics and the area of people I say with heart disease, the consequences of cancer, I say below 2,000 pages this report wouldn't be if we were to go in that segment. So we really try to focus on priorities and act proactively as the office is in that sense and imagined. I would like to thank all parliamentary representatives and representatives for the debate, I really hope that the cooperation that has been established in quality with this House is ours and that in this segment we are acting on improving the situation of persons with disabilities, and I am stressing that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is an international document which the Republic of Croatia has committed to signing and ratifying and putting into effect the obligation to take all those measures to improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities and in this direction strives and act, and it is a great incentive for persons with disabilities to engage in their rights and interests and to initiate the application of positive legal provisions. The whole society needs to invest more energy, will and effort in order to enable people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities to exercise their right to all those areas that otherwise are disabled, i.e. healthy citizens who have no disability. The Advocate's Office is acting in order to fully accept fundamental rights and values, such as dignity, the right to choose and control their own life, equality and solidarity, which have been provided to people with disabilities for many years right through caritative forms of support. It is estimated that the Republic of Croatia has a number of regulations, particularly national documents, a policy strategy based on the Convention and the Action Plan of the Council of Europe, but much still needs to be done in the procedures of the unconditional application of these documents and the adoption of new or amended documents. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54624	I'd like to thank the D.A.'s attorney. I thank everyone who participated in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. This concludes today's session. We'll continue on Wednesday 16 at 9:30. It will try to prepare a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to start with it. If this is not to be allowed then it will continue on the agenda as proposed. Thank you very much, and I'll see you Wednesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-11-0.u54625	We are going to the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities for 2009. Applicant: Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities for 2009. Let's please get involved and vote on this report. The result? This report was adopted unanimously with 109 votes. And the conclusion. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: Opinions, observations and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as proposals from the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities in the Report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. This is what the government accepts. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion of the board was accepted by the majority of votes, 100 votes for, 4 abstentions and 1 against. And as announced earlier, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the agenda point - Proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has tabled a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a point of the second decision laying down a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 57(1) of subparagraph 4. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted amendments. Is there a representative of the motionor, president of the Constitution Committee? Yeah. And vice president of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
