ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60441	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to propose and briefly explain the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. The reason for the adoption of this law is the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this is one of the measures of public administration reform. The Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village was established by the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village and began full work last year. The Centre shall carry out the activity prescribed by this law and by special laws and by the Wine Act, the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material and the Recognition of the Variety of Agricultural Plants, the Law on Plant Health, the Law on Agricultural Land. The Institute for Seeding and Fruiting was established by the Regulation establishing the Institute for Seeding and Fruiting which was adopted under the Seed, Fruit Material Act and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants. The Institute shall carry out the work in the field of seeding, distribution and recognition of varieties of agricultural plants and plant variety protection as intellectual property in the creation of new plant varieties under the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties. The headquarters of the Institute is in Osijek and the Institute has 48 employees. In accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 23 July this year, which adopted a proposal on the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority... the agriculture of food and the village will be carried out in accordance with the Law on Seed, Fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants and the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By passing this law, the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village will take over the jobs, employees of the Department of Seeding and Breeding, its equipment, space and financial resources to carry out the work undertaken, and will contribute to a rational organisation of jobs and tasks, thereby reducing both costs and savings, we count on a minimum of 20% of the budget in the process of synchronising salaries with public service salaries and other material costs. I can add that this is an example of the establishment of this centre as we started rationalization and more efficient work of public administration in the field of agriculture, that the work of this Institute so far, and it shows only a year that the five institutions that have been united under this Centre Act in this year have achieved savings of around 20%, while we have invested in construction and building for the very centre of the laboratory more here will be total of almost 30 million kuna. This is an indicator of how better and more successful can be done in a new way, and that all employees have enough work or new jobs and to ensure a more efficient and better work of the public administration that is and will be available to our farmers and our government. I hope you accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60442	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60443	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village adopted in February of last year and published in the "National Journal" 27/09. I would like to stress in the opening part of my opening part of the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community that our club will support the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, as we did and when adopting the basic law simply because the Government's Economic Recovery Programme provides for such and other similar measures and activities, which should contribute significantly to the rationality, but above all to the effectiveness of the system of state and public administration. I also use the opportunity to highlight the absolute and unreserved support of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives through the Economic Recovery Programme brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in April this year. This support specifically relates to the government's consistency in implementing and implementing all programming measures and activities, given that we believe that such an approach will certainly contribute to the stabilisation of the Croatian economy and its future sustainable development on the one hand, and on the other hand to rationalise the efficiency and transparency of the functioning of the state as a whole. Of course, before I say anything concrete about the proposed amendments and additions to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, I consider it necessary to refer to the applicable law, which is the shortest way to set up a Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village based in the city of Zagreb, which will, as a public institution, be doing the jobs in the field of agriculture, food and rural development. I would like to remind you that the establishment of that institution was based on the Government of Croatia programme for the 2008-2011 term of office. However, the programme envisaged the establishment of an Institute for the Village and Rural Area to deal with research, development of analyses and professional and scientific bases for the purposes of planning, implementation and control of measures of agricultural and rural policy, which should, in any event, contribute to increasing the competitiveness of domestic agriculture and overall agro-business and facilitate negotiations with the European Union. However, given that the applicable law provides for a primary activity of professional and developmental character to be established by an institution established by it, and only to a lesser extent by scientific research, and because institutions that dominating science and scientific research in the Republic of Croatia under the name of the Institute have been included in the practice of giving up the intended name in the Republic of Croatia. It is a very important fact that, at the moment of proposing and adopting applicable laws in the Republic of Croatia, the research, professional and administrative needs of farmers' agriculture and the agriculture and rural development ministries have served different institutions and institutions which are mainly regional or closely specialised in character, and therefore neither have they been, nor have they been able to take full account of the needs of the agriculture and rural areas sector today. It was this fact that it was also an incentive for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adequately respond to the development needs of agriculture and rural areas, which will be based on science and research, which eventually happened in the establishment of the Croatian Centre. The Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village is practically the legal follower of the Institute for Fruiting, the Institute for the Land, the Institute for Plant Protection in Agriculture and Forestry of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Institute for Wine and Wine, and the station for the Southern Culture of Dubrovnik, which took over the assets, rights and obligations, and the jobs and employees of the listed institutions, which ended on 30 June 2009 as independent entities. We think it is important to stress that the centre currently has 7 founding units, including the Institute and the Land and Land Conservation, and the Olive and Southern Culture Office, which are based in Osijek and Dubrovnik, which means that workers of earlier independent institutions have continued to carry out their tasks in areas where they have done so far, but within the framework of the centre and in separate organisational units. Article 3 is replaced by the following: The law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, which has been established in the business and tasks of the Centre, can be clearly concluded that the centre, in addition to the business of the institutions it has taken over, which contain public powers in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Wine, the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, the Law on Plant Health, and the Law on Agricultural Land, is now engaged in research work from different areas related to agriculture, food and village, i.e. rural development. It is important here to mention that the centre is currently working independently or in the context of international cooperation, on several significant projects relating to sustainable management systems and agro-ecological technology and which have the character of applied research, and something more was said by the Secretary of State. Previously mentioned the way of work and activities based on the scientific research work of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village enables its strong multidisciplinary professional core, which currently consists of 12 doctors of science, 14 magistrates and 58 employees of high professional training. The mentioned personnel structure and its synergy capabilities today make the centre's scientific and research capacity truly respectable and enviable. Until now, the advantages listed, as well as those aimed at rationalising business, such as one governing council and one director, one jury account, a unique way of planning and programming work, single procurement and transparent spending of budget money, uniform application of the Regulation on coefficients and complexity of public services, etc., could therefore be listed a number of other advantages. So everything that has helped us today to have an institution that has achieved a high degree of efficiency and rationality of business in just over a year of its business, clearly confirms the justification for the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. Just a few more sentences on a concrete bill proposal, so the proposal to amend and supplement the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. In accordance with Article 2 of the proposed amendments to the laws, and since the date of their entry into force, the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village will, of course, take over the work of employees, equipment, rights and obligations, as well as the financial resources necessary to carry out the work undertaken by the Institute for Seeding and Disposal, which is based in Osijek, and which was established in 1998 as early as the Regulation establishing the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion. So after the adoption of the statutes and other general acts of the centre, in accordance with the provisions of this law, and the registration of changes to the court register, the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion will cease to work, and all its affairs will be carried out by the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, in accordance with the Law on Plant Variety. It is certainly necessary to stress that 48 employees of the Department of Seeding and Dispersion will take over the centre, and given their enviable qualification structure, it is objective to expect further strengthening of the professional potential of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. Finally, while respecting everything previously said, but also the fact that this proposal to the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village is attached to a respectable institution, which has been operating at an extremely high and qualitative level over the past 12 years, will also contribute to the strengthening of the overall capacity of the centre, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60444	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60445	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, State Secretary with an associate. I must say at the beginning of this exhibition that the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. We have already discussed this law in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, it is extremely important because it brings a new structure in Croatian agriculture. The centre itself is therefore established under the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. This law prescribes all its activities, but the centre is also responsible for implementing some other laws important for agriculture, such as the Wine Act, the Law on plant protection, the Seed Law, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties, the Law on Plant Health and the Law on Agricultural Land. Namely, the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion was established by a regulation establishing the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion, which was adopted under the Seed, Fruit Material Act and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants. The Institute shall carry out activities in the field of seminary, distribution and recognition of varieties of agricultural plant variety and plant variety protection, as intellectual property in the creation of new plant varieties and under the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties. The Institute has 48 employees, and according to the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 23 July 2010, a proposal for the reorganisation of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with the public authority of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village will be carried out in accordance with the Law on Seed, Fruit Material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants and the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties. By passing this law, the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village will take over the jobs of 48 employees of the Department of Seeding and Disposal, its equipment, space and financial resources to carry out the work undertaken, which will certainly contribute to a rational organisation of jobs and tasks, thereby reducing costs and saving up to 20% of the budget in the process of synchronising salaries with public service salaries and other material costs. And we at the HSS Club will support the adoption of this law. Today, all the building units of the centre are at the stage of introducing accreditation in the field of laboratory analysis, which we consider extremely important and we give this process absolute support. Of course, there should be an exception to the Institute of Winery, Winery and Fruiting, which has been owned by accreditation for 8 years, and in the area of sensory science for 3 years. This, of course, is also very important in the field of plant health related to EU regulations and negotiating chapters, in particular Chapters 11 and 12. The budget and own resources over the period from 1 year, from 2009 to 2010 have invested more than 5 million kunas and in the adaptation of the centre laboratory and the purchase of equipment for analysis and diagnostics, which we think will be an important help in the professional work of the centre itself. In addition to regular tasks set out by law, the centre also works on several projects independently or through international co-operation. They refer to sustainable management systems and agri-ecological technology, and have the character of applicable research that gives us the right to believe that the centre will successfully carry out jobs in the field of seeding, distribution and recognition of varieties of agricultural plants and plant variety as intellectual property in the creation of new plant varieties as provided for by this law. It should also be added that other EU countries have these institutions where the centres, i.e. the Seeding and Dispersion Institute, are an integral part of the common National Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. So this provision, i.e. the amendment of the law and the trail of compliance with good practice in our neighbouring countries, is also EU countries where Croatia will soon be a member and we in the HSS Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60446	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60447	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here we know that at the beginning of 2009, a Law was adopted on the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, which was formed by a number of institutions and organisations that carry out their activities in agriculture, it was these 5 organizations – the Institute for Fruiting, the Institute for Land, the Institute for Wine and Wine, the Institute for Plant Protection in Agriculture and Forestry and the Centre for Southern Culture of Dubrovnik. In the debate then I asked why only those organisations and institutions when there are many more that would also be important for the development of agriculture and food production in Croatia. In that list of organizations that could go there was this office, but I don't know Djakovo, either. And some of these today's troublesome organizations. Normally, I expected to discuss at the end of this year the work report and the results that the centre has achieved since its founding. The secretary of state said it was 20% savings. I can't believe it, and we don't have to believe it because without the more detailed results and reports, I think that's how it is to take our word for it. Today, however, we are discussing amendments and additions to the law without any indication of how the centre works, whether a good gathering of these organisations under one hat has been demonstrated and how Croatian agriculture has benefited from the formation of this Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. The results unfortunately in Croatia's agriculture are quite problematic. The basis of the amendment of this law is that the centre takes over the work of the Seed, Fruit Material Act and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants and the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties, which was carried out by the Department of Seeding and Dispersion in Osijek. I must immediately say that these jobs were very high-quality, and that it was also profitable to support and concrete indicators. Again, without any indication of the work of the Centre and the Institute as the main reason for these changes, the implementation of the programme of recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is listed as one of the measures of public administration reform. This usually consists of all these changes and discussions that we have had these days, and about abolishing, joining or something like state institutions. The common denominator of all these changes is the rationalisation of the work and business of the same. Since we don't have any indicators about this merger, we only have that Article 1, 2, 3 that speak about it, and they're tied to the Bureau, I'm going to try based on the operations of the Seeding and Data Office that we had when the centre was established with these five members that entered its composition to give some factual state. It has already been said here, and I will repeat that the Seeding Institute was founded in 1998 and has been working since 01.01.1999 as an independent institution. Over the past 10 years, he has had a period of successful formation and development and its headquarters was then set to be in Osijek. Government decision of 23. Seven. In 2010 on the accession of the Institute to the Centre and this law which should adopt and take over jobs, employees, equipment, rights and obligations, as well as financial resources to carry out the work undertaken at the very least is problematic. Why? At the very least, it calls into question the fundamental intention of rationalising the business of state institutions. With this move, the Institute loses the independence of the institution, which also has international obligations towards the European institutions, which the government has also accepted. What are these obligations? This is that jobs in seminary and wasteland are performed by an independent independent, professional and non-profit institution. That the institution was founded in 1998 in Osijek was also the most normal decision at the time. Because Slavonia and Baranja are also the largest resources in the production and production of seeds. The use of this seed is also the largest in Slavonia and Baranja as well as the concentration of professional staff to perform these jobs and this area of work from seminary. This is why it is normal for one particular revolt, but also for one of the undersighted workers who work there, but also for the economy, and for the farmers in this way, with the fact that the whole of this business is translated into management from Zagreb. Today, the Bureau has something like this I'm going to tell you about the financial situation. Today, the Institute has assets, including capital of around 40 million kuna, but most importantly also new technology and professional staff that meet the requirements of the European Union for the performance of seed production activities set out in the European laws. It is also important to say that the Institute can operate independently without the support of the State budget, which is primarily that according to the amount of services provided, the Institute shows a high degree of effectiveness. According to the data that I have here from 1999 to 2009, own income from the initial 50% in the 99th year has increased, today it has increased to 90% or its own income has been 3.2 million and today we have its own incomes of over 15 million that this institution has. This business is also to be paid by the Institute to the VAT budget in the same amount it receives from the state budget. Therefore, we see that the business of the Institute is very good and that it is with experts and people and with the property it has, laboratories can meet all the conditions that Europe requires of Croatia related to seminary. At the same time, I have no other data, but the data we had when we adopted this Law last year, related to these five members entering the centre, then was their plan for 2008, all these five members, to be paid out of the state budget 26.3 million kuna or 62%, and their own revenues were these 5 members, as this institution today has 15.5 million. Or 38%. And finally, 50 employees work at the office today, and these five members according to these indicators had 135 employees. You can see from this that we're now connecting one of the offices, drowning in the center, in a way that maybe we should consider and see what and how to make it a better approach after all. The worst part is that this attachment was done without any consultation with the Bureau, because joining and missing the institute is not the best solution. This kind of physical attachment of the Institute of the Centre, one necessary independence of the Institute is lost and a successful financing system is violated. I think that this is important and that this should be discussed, so first and foremost, I think that this debate should be accepted as a first reading, and all proposals with consultation with the Bureau should be incorporated into the final text of the law that will not violate the good business of the Institute. What am I supposed to do? First of all, we need to go to the center office's merger with the center, not the attachment. We can't just erase 10 years of work by this Institute and everything that this Institute in Europe is and what it means, and also with us from certification of that seed to a bank of genes that it has and development that should go along with this agriculture office of Croatia. Secondly, I think that the headquarters of the centre should be in Osijek because the property of the premises of the Institute and the experimental fields and the possibility of expansion are a good prerequisite for the headquarters of such a united institution. After all, what I used to say to Slavonia and Baranja, that is, eastern Croatia is the place and centre of agriculture, food production and rural part of Croatia. Thirdly, all issues of the new internal organisation of the Centre, the systematization of jobs should be regulated by the new Statute and the rules of the Centre. We can't just get into a situation where people, if you're not going to work in Zagreb, then find another place, therefore, to solve that question. These proposals would allow the Institute, together with the centre, to establish an organisational model that would enable all segments united in the centre to develop evenly and meet the commitments made towards international institutions. Furthermore, the adoption of the proposed law in the current text, if there were no changes and other readings, would have an unfavorable political echo in Slavonia and Baranja, especially in the public economy of Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County. Something that was founded more than 10 years ago in Osijek with the aim of decentralisation and state services and institutions, will now be interpreted as centralising the extraction from the natural environment of the same. Finally, in the name of the center there is also a village, and in the tasks of working and development of rural areas, professional training, counseling of farmers. I think it is an ideal mile for the work and affirmation of the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service, which is proposed to enter the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, which is one interesting institution only part of the economy. Therefore, in the end, I propose to accept the conclusion of the SDP Club, which is addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament and which you get on the bench with a proposal to be reading, and to bring the final text of the law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60448	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60449	Dear President, the esteemed secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The National Minority Club welcomes the adoption of this law, or the addition of the law, as it is about the unification of the Seeding and Dispersion Institute and the takeover of seed certification and fruit material, the recognition of varieties, the preservation of genetic resources. In fact, it was not clear when the establishment of the Centre for the Village, Agriculture and Food was established, why all the institutions that serve agriculture were not already united at that center. Namely, the centre is established for research, analysis and scientific basis for planning, implementation and control of agricultural and rural policy measures, increasing the competitiveness of domestic agriculture and negotiations with the European Union. Scientific work, applied research, development research, professional studies have been served in various parts of higher education institutions, scientific institutes, and institutions and organisations entrusted as public authorities means in institutions. It was precisely the dispersion, structure and content of the work of those institutions that did not meet the requirements of improving and directing science in the area of agriculture as production activities and agriculture as a holder of rural development. And as I said before, we also welcomed the establishment of a centre with the aim of research and serviceing further development in agriculture because "The mission of the centre is to develop excellent, professional and research work, and excellent service of agriculture and farmers, transfer knowledge and technology from agriculture and related sciences to the structure of administration and economy, which deals with agrarian policy and rural development, or are influenced by such policies as institutions dealing with organisation, production and primary processing, the scientific aspects of products and environmental protection in agriculture." In other words, it is a public service for the transfer and use of knowledge from the marketing technology in the area of agriculture, processing, processing, means the public authority of examination and supervision, in other words the application of legislation. I'm just here to say that it's another institution or better to say the Advisory Service stays out of it, and it's supposed to be inside the Agriculture, Food and Village Center just on the basis of what I've highlighted before, but I'll repeat. The Advisory Office should be located at the Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village as an extended arm or better to say the link between the private sector of the OPG on the one hand and science and applied technology on the other. In particular, the Advisory Service shall have a technological technical improvement of the agricultural holding and the provision of professional assistance to farmers with the aim of increasing profits from agricultural activity and additional activities in the economy. The provision of expert advice, instruction and practical premonitions from agriculture and fisheries in order to display new technologies and techniques, as well as how to manage and transfer new knowledge and skills needed to develop and preserve the value of rural space and sustainable development of agriculture and fisheries. The Advisory Service also has the task of participating and drawing up development plans for agricultural economies. It's about investment programmes, business plans, rural development programs. Promoting knowledge in agriculture and fisheries in order to preserve biodiversity and landscape diversity in the interests of villages and rural areas and islands. In other words, the advisory service is directly relying on the work of the Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, and for this very reason we were to discuss today the attachment of the Advisory Service to this centre, and not to the chamber. I'll explain. Namely, the Croatian Agriculture Institute was established to carry out professional support for the development of agricultural production in the OPGs as a public service, to advise farmers on the exercise of the right to incentives in particular in the part of direct payments and capital investments, and to today work on the ARCOD register of agricultural particles, to monitor the implementation and research of the system of agricultural accounting known as FADN and all in connection with EU adaptation and the use of EU common agricultural policy funds. By conducting agricultural policy as the first door where the peasants knocked they raised farms, raising orchards and vineyards. They must be based on scientific and research centres and it is certainly not a agricultural chamber. Because just a few words the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture is an independent and independent, professional and business organization that promotes, protects and represents the interests of its members, as well as the Chamber of Commerce, but certainly cannot then have the public authority that will be given to it in a way that will have an advisory service. I'm going to caricate it on the Nitrate Directive that's coming and knocking on our door. The use of nitrogen fertilisers, primarily organic fuels, will be controlled by the centre as well as soil pollution, which, along with the advisory service, will educate on the same and must be handled accordingly. But it does not have to be in the interest of the chamber because it imposes new obligations, management, equipment, etc. Therefore, the chamber should have remained in the area of the marketing market, not to mention potential wishes and goals, but not to be attached by one professional service because I ask who will ultimately serve the professional service precisely because the professional service such as the advisory service must be educated, it must be based on science. If it is not and it is very soon, we will say that it will become unnecessary, and we know that I am not repeating now the state of our agriculture. For all these reasons we will support the attachment of the means of the Seeding Institute, but we regret that today in the second point that follows we will discuss exactly the same important segment that should be attached to this place. Equal austerity measures would be achieved. Because we must not forget, as the centre is financed from the state budget, the advisory service is financed from the budget and it should be centralised in one place. And the chamber must live in the way that you wrote it in your statute, that is, if a chamber were well set up then in a few months, as we are going to do today, we would not change exactly the way its funding is to be spoken of. So I appeal once again and I don't think it's a bad SDP proposal for this to go to another reading and to consider that the advisory service gets that position it needs to have, and on the other hand, the savings should be the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60450	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's Madam Representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60451	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We are facing another law proposed for the purpose of implementing the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as one of the measures of public administration reform, and this whole proposal for public administration reform has been developed by the Ministry of Administration. The proposal states in its assessment that by carrying this law, the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village will take over the jobs of 48 employees of the Department of Seeding and Disposal, its equipment, space and financial resources to carry out the work undertaken, which will contribute to a more rational organisation of jobs and tasks, and thus reduce costs. The question is whether the amendments and additions to that law can be supported in this form. I'll answer that in my closing statement. However, it should be mentioned here that in February, when the Law on the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village was adopted, it was clear that there were too many institutions, institutions and others in the area of agriculture that serviced it, as the promoter himself admitted and then stated in the assessment of the situation. In view of the existing registers and of the activities of the established institutions and institutions in this area, it can be established that the professional and scientific, research and administrative needs of farmers and the ministries responsible for agriculture and rural development are now being serviced by higher education institutions, scientific institutes of a regional or specialised profile and several specialised agricultural institutions or institutions which can be listed below. Therefore, there are mentions of networks of colleges, higher and higher schools, scientific institutes and institutions, such as Osijek, Split, Poreč, Križevci, institutions and organisations established for carrying out activities in the field of agriculture such as the Croatian Institute of Wine and Winemaking, the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion, etc., other institutes such as the Croatian Institute of Wine and Wine, etc. IDIS, Ivo Pilar, etc. At the time when this law was passed, the Proposer stated that, I quote: "at this stage it is not possible and it is not possible to include it in the establishment of the Centre of the Second Agricultural Institution for which the Founder's office is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture." At that time, only certain institutions and institutions were included in the establishment of the Agriculture and Food Centre in the area of agriculture, while others existing remained outside the system. Why was that? It was one of the questions that was raised in the debate at the time. We could have done it by then, and if nothing, at least then we would have rationalized our jobs and achieved possible savings in the state budget. At that time, the HNS Club, because of many open issues raised in the debate, but also because of the difficult situation in agriculture, suggested that the law be conducted in the third reading, which unfortunately was not accepted. And now, a year and a half after the adoption of this law, the Government proposes amendments and additions to which jobs, people and equipment of the Department of Seeding and Dispersion are attached to the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village as an independent institution. The report on the work of the centre from 1.1. to 30.6.2010, on 30 June 2010, employs 137 employees, of which 78 employees with high professional training, 2 first-graders, 3 employees with higher professional training, 42 middle professional staff, 1 KV employee and 11 NKV employees. Of the total number of VSS employees, 10 doctors of science and 15 masters of science were employed. According to the bill, the centre will now receive 48 more employees, of course from the office. Regardless of the wide range of work the centre is still, in our opinion, the number of 185 employees is impressive and I would say too much. Is that rationalization? What and by what criteria was it made? Where is the analysis and indicators that explicitly talk about rationalization and savings. The secretary of state mentioned a 20% savings. We'd like to know and get it in writing. What happened so badly or so spectacularly at the Department of Seeding and Dispersion that the government is shutting it down now. It seems that this takeover of people and jobs at that center creates a parallel mini ministry of agriculture. Whether this accession of institutions will improve the overall state of our agriculture. It seems the savings won't be that significant. This is because of all these doubts and questions that I have raised on behalf of the club, the HNS club, the HSU suggests a new reading by which and in which we would get answers to all the questions raised and unresolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60452	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60453	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Five days ago on the agricultural show, you had a chance to see what it looked like importing or what it looked like when the cabbage was bought abroad, obtained abroad, so all kinds of kale and other plants had gone missing except for the varazdin cabbage. That's what I'm saying because today I'm not going to say about abolishing, attaching, joining however you want, baptizing it all the time, all these funds that are being pooled together because of the alleged rationalization with other funds and institutions, and in fact without any other reason, especially when it comes to the Department of Seeding and Dispersion, based in Osijek. Interesting data and the results of this Institute founded in 1999, which employs 50 employees. My colleague said 48, but I have information that she's 50 employees. State support to the Institute has been state aid or subsidies for years, however you want it, less than you want it to pay in the state register via VAT. So, here's an example for 2009 the total income of the Seeding Institute was close to 18 million kuna. The revenue from the budget of 2 million 859, and for VAT, the Institute paid 3 million and 35000 kuna. So, £200 more than he received a grant from the state budget. About the Institute speak from the position of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja regional party with rare institutions of this kind, and should be all, including the Ministry of Agriculture in the region which is agricultural primarily is very important. For the HDSSB, it is a matter of first-class importance. When decentralisation and regionalisation is mentioned in Croatia, etc. This is an obvious example of doing the opposite. Therefore, the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion in Osijek can operate independently without state support. I'd almost say they don't mention me as us and others here by some sayings. It's actually a coke carrying golden eggs, and now it needs to be in the state budget and someone in the country to spill it all together into the Center for Agriculture, Food and the village that was formed in 2009. So 10 years after the establishment of the Institute and who employs 137 employees, and with these 50 I would really agree with a colleague who spoke before me. It would be one pre-grey body almost parallel ministry, and we haven't even talked about the Agricultural Chamber that's on the agenda yet, etc. So, dualism of governance, dualism of agriculture decisions or more, not only dualism would really be in this country maximum, but also the presence of centralisation in the form of the Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, which was formed in 2009 and which was then included in the decision of the Croatian Government and the Parliament, Institute for Fruit and Vineculture, Institute for the Land of Osijek, Olives and Southern Culture, Institute for Agriculture and the Village, Institute for Agriculture and Food from Zagreb. When we talk about olives and southern cultures, this Institute used to exist in Dubrovnik. The HDSSB really does not agree with this legislative proposal, which brings the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village together in a way that always uses a different term, joins, unites, unites, unites, etc. Therefore, it belongs to the Department of Seeding and Dispersion of Osijek, a figure which is therefore on the market, which is not only scientific and advisory but also has public authority and is operating on the market by paying an orderly VAT and earning income from which therefore the salaries of employees of that Office are financed. We suggest that the Center for Agriculture, the Village, Food and the Village, so to make a reverse sequence, that, that there is a Center for Agriculture, Food and Village based in Osijek, right where the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion is today. This would then be a real example of the Government of Croatia's intention to decentralisation, and this would be a real example of rationalization, because if we talk about all these segments, so agriculture, food, village, seeding, distribution, fruit growing, vineyarding even, then it's really a place where all of this is exactly Slavonia and Baranja. Why is it that no one has ever wanted or had any intention, no good will to think about, that the Center for Agriculture, Food and Village should be in Slavonia and Baranja, and that there is already a Ministry of Seeding and Dispersion at its address in Vinkovica Street in Osijek, that the entire centre be in Osijek, so along with this Seeding Office, and that the manager of the Centre also has a deputy who would be from the Department of Seeding and Dispersion. The function of the Seeding and Disposal Centre would be long to say, I have here 23, so 23 jobs and tasks carried out by the Seeding and Disposal Office, which has shown excellent results of its business, which conducts the process of recognising varieties, conducts the examination of varieties in production experiments, conducts analyses of statistical annual and final data, stores samples of seeds and keeps records, performs the tasks of protecting varieties of agricultural plants, etc., not to list, but indeed this institution which regularly operates, which performs amongst the rarest those roles and functions for which it is established, now such an irrational and indivisible act, nothing to say ceases, not with function, but here in some way administrative way, without including, joins, joins, joins, joins, etc. The center for agriculture, food and the village. We've invested and we're going to make amendments to this bill, we know that he can't go so on. The third reading given that this is an urgent process, so I think the third reading proposal is out of the question, but we have amendments to which we want to change this course of things, and exactly what the proposer's intention is to actually rationalise, rationalise it would be that the entire Center for Agriculture, Food and Village be in Slavonia and Baranja, be in Osijek, together with the already existing Seeding Office, which is doing excellent business and which I say one feather, or Dick or an example of how a single institution can hence achieve its own income without any specific support or subsidy from the state, central state, because it is shown that the VAT paid by the institution is greater than the subsidy that the State has given for that institution. If our amendments are not accepted, then the club of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja will not vote for this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60454	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Then she's Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60455	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. These days, we have before us a whole set of laws that talk about the addition or abolition of certain state institutions, existing state institutions. All of them are the basis of the Government's proposal to reorganise institutions, agencies and other institutions, and the reason it is cited as an explanation of all these laws is that it is one of the economic recovery measures in Croatia. However, I believe or wish to believe that when the government made this proposal for a reorganisation, and it declared one of the measures of economic recovery, it also made up a certain analysis of the effects of positive, negative. What this will mean in the quality of the work of the new institutions, which will mean as a financial effect for the state budget, because these are all institutions that are partly or partly or fully financed from the state budget. In any of these proposals, there is no such analysis and calculation of the effects, and it is not available in this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. Personally, I think that this reorganisation of existing institutions should not be done without a total, without knowledge of the overall reform of state and public administration. Only in this, if we saw this whole proposal to reorganize public and state administration, would we actually be able to look at some of the effects of certain segments that should be done in such a reorganisation. When the Law on the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village was passed, it was logical for me to have such an institution as a state institution set up, because it should actually improve agricultural production, food quality, and improve and develop the entire rural space in Croatia. Therefore, given such objectives that should be ensured through the work of the Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village, it was then necessary to analyse which institutions, existing institutions or possibly new activities to be carried out by this centre when it was discussed. The first stage of the centre includes 5 existing institutions and the question arises whether it was then accidentally or intentionally abandoned by the Department of Seeding and Dispersion, the only institution that has its own administration outside the metropolis, therefore organised in Osijek? Normally, it seemed normal and today it is normal for such a centre to have its headquarters in Osijek, given that it was established under the Seeding and Dispersion Act and that its basic task is actually to carry out these tasks as an independent, professional and non-profit institution. So, then, it was led to the reasons that Osijek is exactly the center of the area where the largest part of agricultural production, where the largest agricultural resources, personnel, etc. are concentrated. Therefore, in order not to further debate, it is necessary to re-analyse what should be included through the Centre for Agriculture, Village and Food, is there a need to include some more institutions here, what are the effects then regarding quality? Personally, I think that sometimes some of the savings that are in financial terms do not have to mean both quality but can also mean a backward, or worse business. These are reasons to possibly reanalyse this proposal once again, to explain to another reading and what we will get in a qualitative sense better, what we will get through financial savings from the state budget and whether it is really worth having one institution that has been recognised outside Croatia and which also performs certain jobs for other European and world institutions, in fact, by means of a movement of feathers. It would be good to know whether certain suggestions have been consulted in the preparation of this proposal, i.e. certain suggestions that could have been made by professionals employed in the Department of Seeding and Disposal and which could have had consequences for such an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60456	Thank you. And I announce that at 10.38, it's time to sign up for 10 minutes. It's Ms. Nevenka Marinović's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60457	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village with a final proposal to support. I would like to remind you that with the government of the Republic of Croatia's 2008 programme. – 2011 as one of the tasks set out and the establishment of the Institute for the Village and Rural Area, means to explore the analysis and the scientific and professional basis for the purpose of planning the creation, implementation and control of agricultural and rural policy measures, increasing the competitiveness of domestic agriculture, agrobusiness and negotiations with the EU. So we founded in last year the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, and the reasons for the establishment, the Secretary of State said, so I won't repeat them, but I'll list a few facts about agricultural production and the reasons we talked about when we set up, or relevant to the work of this centre. Here, the first of these facts is that Croatian agriculture is really burdened with heavy heritage and changes which are restrictions in further development such as unfavourable agrarian structure, agricultural education, undeveloped service infrastructure, market reductions and changes in its structure, the poor organisation of several hundred thousand economic entities in which both economic, household and social elements are pervaded. Then the negative absorption power of the Croatian economy in terms of the lack of pro-pulsive and perspective economic sectors and agricultural products in the food industry as well as agricultural surpluses, then the depopulation of rural areas, etc. The next fact I want to emphasise is that in economic terms, the main objective is to make agriculture mean economic health, perspective and above all human interest, but also central economic activity in rural areas. Agriculture itself is becoming more and more necessary to its own vast number of activities that live among them, and of which it lives. I also believe that agriculture should mean not only a source of employment, which is mostly just farmers and their families, but the source of many other activities in the rural area. It should be a source of both production and service and crafts and tourism and intellectual services, creating and creating a diverse production structure. It is somehow a basic prerequisite for the development of modern agriculture, but also a solution to many of the development problems of our village. Here is such a universally coherent and regionally differentiated approach, both the most rational and the fastest way towards raising the quality of life in rural areas. It is also important to note that in the national domain research is carried out which is the necessary basis for selecting the best balanced measures of agrarian policy and science, knowledge and knowledge that are important for our specific areas of production, but also for untapped Croatian potentials that can and should be achieved competitiveness on both domestic and foreign markets. And the upcoming period, or period in which we are already in place, is the period of accession of the Republic of Croatia and the EU requirement for agriculture and villages and specific research, special knowledge, but also action. And this is not only for the sake of a better degree of compatibility and organisational administrative functionality but also for ensuring in time for Croatian agriculture a maximum useful entry level, structure and quality of production in future relations with the EU. I also want to point out this occasion that we should find harmony, I believe that this is one of the roles of the Centre so expanded, to find harmony between agriculture, which is very intensive, efficient and productive, means large and globally competitive with one single goal of profit and rural agriculture, where agriculture is a philosophy of production and the creation of added value and life according to nature. Here is the second full approach he had in a recent "Eco-Ethno" event held in Zadar. Agriculture has proved to be more and more philosophies of production and the creation of added value, and not only this first approach means profit. Thus, respecting the legality of one and the other approaches, the task is to enable and encourage family and other private economies to manage such rural values, which will produce socially optimal quantities of high-value food, plant fibers, industrial and feed plants, renewable energy, and to preserve biodiversity and landscapes but maintain cultural heritage, means to manage the quality of soil, water and air in a sustainable way, which is a fellow and fellow priority that does not really have an alternative. So, the domination of established activities in all economic spheres, especially in agriculture as one of the real comparative values of our country, I want to stress here and through tourism imposes the need to create institutional infrastructure, methodology solutions, implementation processes that bring new scientific research knowledge in the entire chain of agriculture, food and rural development more effectively to the creation of an economic base of well-being, improvement of quality of life. This is when we set up the Centre we said that the mission of the Centre is to develop excellence, professional research work, and the quality of the service of agriculture and farmers and to transfer knowledge and technology to the structures of the administration and the economy dealing with agriculture, politics and rural development. This mission of the Centre also includes the accession of the Institute of Seeding, which will facilitate and encourage the process of adapting the growth and development of agriculture and the entire rural area to today's challenges, both globalisation and food environmental challenges ahead of agriculture. I also expect the centre to be developed as a scientific and development institution and as a Centre of scientific and professional virtues in creating knowledge and experience-based support for the management and management of agricultural policy and rural development, I further expect that also the envisaged programme activities, by joining existing institutions, into a unique organisational and programme whole, are being realized another in a series of contributions from the Centre, which is to build a national innovation system that is in reality an institutional form of governance and management in the knowledge economy processes, and to take over the role of creating bases for the management of national agrarian, rural and regional policies that will reduce the transition damage but simultaneously and optimally affect the opportunities that the EU common policy and development funds provide. Here are the reasons why I'm going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60458	Thank you. We have one replica, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60459	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you colleagues that agriculture, people who deal with agriculture, have one of their own special philosophy that is extremely valuable because it has brought about the preservation of the Croatian village, the identity of the Croatian people. This philosophy that our peasant represents is actually a philosophy that preserves both the song and the costume and the faith and Croatia word through all the turbulence of this year Croatian history and therefore, of course, the Croatian peasant today deserves more than ever the support of us representatives in these integration processes in which we enter the European Union and where we bring our speciality and identity with us. Of course I agree with you that food production has its own special place. In my opinion, it is the basis for the sovereignty of every country and thank God Croatia has sufficient capacity to produce food and has sufficient capacity to ensure that food for all and that no one is hungry as it is in other countries. And what makes me particularly happy is that Croatia's agriculture is connected with Croatian tourism that is growing in awareness that the Croatian domestic agricultural product should offer to the guest, that this is something that will make this guest very happy to return and I am glad that the tourism ministry that is marking the days of tourism in Croatia has just introduced new models of support for the development of continental tourism in which we record quite good results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60460	Thank you. Commissioner Nevenka Marinović's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60461	Here, colleague, I have seen this philosophy of production at this exhibition fair, at this event "Eco-ethno" in Zadar, and what really fascinated me is a large number of top products from all over the Republic of Croatia, the pride of those people who brought their heritage and their product enriched with love with their hands they offered to the visitors. This is the first step towards what you were saying from that exhibition table it is placed through tourism and it is one new dimension of both the Croatian village and the Croatian product, and yet one new dimension of this philosophy of Croatian village production.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60462	Thank you. It's Mr. Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60463	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Department of Seeding and Dispersion established by the regulation that we have already heard about the establishment of the Institute which was adopted under the Seed and Fruit Material Act and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants. The Institute shall carry out activities in the field of seminary, distribution and recognition of varieties and agricultural plants and plant protection activities as intellectual property in the creation of new plant varieties. The Institute has 48 employees and 10 seasonal workers and what is important to highlight is most of them with a university degree and only two with lower professional training. The Seed Declaration Department controls all seeds and fruit material produced in Croatia and imported into the Croatian market. All seed parties in Croatia are kept at the control sample warehouse so that later expertise can determine what sort it is of whether it is declared, why it is not a plier, a weak pylon, etc. In the 2006 Food Safety Negotiations, Croatia was the only one in the area of seed and fruit material that did not have to produce documents, and the European Commission agreed to be harmonised with EU directives in this area of power, laws and enforcement. A month later, Croatia became the first non-EU country on the basis of which the results and surveys of the variety go to the EU catalogue. The Osijek Institute for Seeding and Dispersion has recently been located in Briest is the only Croatian personnel and technology qualified to determine whether seeds and fruit material are produced in a classical way, organically or aggressively as genetically modified. They shall also establish the presence and a certain quantity of genetic modification in the material to be applied to the examination or to be placed on the market and shall issue valid documents for international seed transport. Since 2009, research on food and feed has also been carried out in a biotechnology laboratory. In accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal for a law, it is prescribed to take over the business of employees, equipment, rights and obligations and financial resources with a view to carrying out the work undertaken by the Ministry of Seeding and Dispersion in the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. So the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village will carry out the tasks of certification of seeds, fruit material, recognition of varieties of agricultural plants, professional control of seeds and fruit material, supervision of the work of preserving varieties, conservation of plant and genetic resources and the process of protection of plant varieties, and other jobs in accordance with the Seed Act. By passing this law, the Croatian Centre will take over all 48 employees of the Department of Seeding, its equipment, space, financial resources, which will contribute to a more rational organisation of jobs and tasks, and thus reduce costs. It should be pointed out here that, in addition to economic reasons, work in a single institution will have a synergy effect of professional research capacities on quality in all respects and will allow for a more rational and efficient use of all other infrastructures of the centre. The task of the centre to develop the quality of professional research work, as well as the service of agriculture and farmers and to transfer knowledge and technology from agriculture and related sciences to the structures of the administration and the economy dealing with agricultural policy and rural development. Or they are influenced by such policies as institutions dealing with organisation, production and primary processing, health aspects of products and environmental protection in agriculture. For all this, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60464	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60465	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will be against this law, because I believe that it is one of those laws in the whole series, a whole package of laws that is passed because of political marketing, creating the impression that the merger of two institutions will ensure economic recovery or certain savings, which are essentially not available. Unfortunately, the biggest danger is that it is not recognised that we are all dealing with the wrong problems together from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Parliament because the pay gap between the director of one institution and his deputy or assistant is not so much to compensate for working time and the cost of all these state institutions. No such decisions on adjudication, mergers can achieve any growth in the Croatian economy. But for days, we have been dealing with these very problems on a continuous basis, because it wants to create the impression that the government has a solution to the economic crisis. And we had a few months ago and a law that was supposed to save hundreds of thousands of jobs, and it actually happened that after a year of law enforcement, the funds were withdrawn by just 27 jobs. So we're dealing with the wrong things, but it's tragic that through one such political marketing, institutions and people who deal with professional affairs are the most affected, not those who have adequate political protection. That is the case with this particular case of the Department of Seeding and Dispersion, which was founded in Osijek right in the headquarters of one agricultural area, but as a message to the very part of Croatia that not all institutions are in Zagreb alone, not all institutions are centralised, but this is one indicator of state decentralisation. Of course, it was this fact that it also served Assembly representatives from the HDZ who spoke here that this is the example that the Government has not centralised everything, that the Government is taking care of Slavonia and Baranja and that through such one establishment of the Food and Continuing Agency of this Institute of Seeding and Dispersion in Osijek certain government services are dislocated. This new centralization is in fact contrary to the government's policy of decentralisation of institutions which is obviously completely pushed aside at this point, no longer exists. But when it comes to possible rationalisation, it is precisely the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries that envisioned for the next year 2011. 4 million kuna for 2012. 5 million kunas, precisely for the work of this institution and annually the Institute for Seeding and Dispersion has been supported from the state budget of the last years with around 2 million kunas. Therefore, there is no rationalisation but is clearly foreseen in a certain form a new increase in costs or some other increase in the activities of the institution itself. Of course, it will have an extremely bad message just for the area where this office works. It's about an extremely professional and respected institution. And one message about his attachment elsewhere is not good. Therefore, I support the idea of establishing a Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, but the right message would be to have the headquarters of that institution in Osijek and in Vinkovacka 63 where it is the headquarters of this institution. It would be a real message for everyone in eastern Croatia to carry out a certain decentralisation rather than centralisation in Croatia. For this reason, I will also support the idea that this bill is sent to a second reading, that it is not now passed over its knees, because the consequences and thinking of the employees and of this institution and of all those who are engaged in agriculture in eastern Croatia will be extremely bad. So I call once again, let's refer this bill to another reading, and I suggest that its headquarters be in Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60466	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60467	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Serbs, I think this is your last thing you said about the second reading for this bill. It is the SDP club that has made this conclusion with the aim of still discussing, i.e. to create one possibility with greater consultations to address not only the mergers of this institution but also the issue of advisory services. The advisory service, which is also an important factor in the development of the entire Croatian agrarian in this situation, can also, through this second reading and that part, connect and create the possibility of making a truly quality change, to create a quality centre. Because as I was saying before when it was created, no one is against such a single centre, but it is because all the factors that are important for the development of Croatian agriculture are included in it, but normally, and that all of this is primarily happening in Osijek, Slavonia and Baranja, where this production of agriculture is the largest and highest quality. Therefore, second reading, final text consultations are certainly a good way to address this issue in a quality way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60468	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60469	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bodakoš, I am glad that we understand each other and that we probably feel together that the best message from this high home should also be sent to agricultural experts, that their work problems are not broken over their knees, but that they are sufficiently strong and soundly justified before decisions are made that affect and the work they are dealing with, but also show our view of their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60470	Thank you very much. And as the last in the debate is Mrs. Representative, by this point of course of the agenda, Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60471	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow representatives and representatives of the ministry. Today we have been discussing all morning the addition and amendment of this Law on the establishment of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, with the final proposal of the law. However, although this name sounds quite pompous in itself and everyone would think that it was some improvement in the centre and the institute, it was only once again the abolition of a legal person with public powers for which the Government had concluded at its already famous session on 23 July 2010 that there was no need for it to exist. So here we are these days intensively dealing with the abolition and halving of institutions, agencies, institutes that were once founded, and sometimes they were no longer heard from after the founding. Today, however, we are talking about something else, today when it comes to this centre or the Institute, it is about a respectable institution that we have heard on several sides today that it is a large scale of income and which employs a large number of excellent experts. I therefore consider and join the other colleagues from my club who believe that this should be considered and re-send to another reading only the abolition, i.e. the accession of this agriculture centre. The government that runs this country should act as a good master in all situations, when the country is in a good economic situation and when it is not in a good economic situation, rather than itself being able to maintain a system that it itself has created and clearly cannot support. Today, it is proposed to remove a respectable institution that is a large majority of its income as I have already said is only income and is on the market and I wonder if it is rational and good for the Ministry of Seeding and Dispersion to fit into the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village or if you think it really needs to be done, why it has not been done much earlier. As far as I could see from the proposal from the material, there were five amendments to this basic law. According to this proposal, the Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village assumes all the jobs and employees of the Institute, and by subtracting and collecting roughly the numbering positions of the Centre and the Institute for 2012 there is savings of about one million and 700 thousand kuna, which is likely to waste on the salary of the Deputy and Director of the Institute and on the compensation of the President and members of the Governing Council which are now being abolished by the abolition of the Institute. Is it necessary to spend so far on these fees, so here I ask the Ministry's representative how much these fees were if it was known and what they were paying if that was the savings? In this case, I am very sorry that the centre which is one of the few which is decentralised in this country is not located in Zagreb, but as the previous partners said in Osijek. The question is what will happen to these employees of the office, whether they move to Zagreb or if the centre will have a branch office in the City of Osijek. This proposal states that the Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village will carry out certifications of seeds and fruit material, recognition of varieties of agricultural plant, professional control of seed and fruit material, supervision of the work of breeders, conservation of plant genetic resources and the process of protection of plant varieties and other matters in accordance with the Seed Act and other laws on which this institute is based. As the Ministry of the Interior is here, although they are not listening to me right now, I would like to point out the two specific problems that have been brought out of the lives of our farmers, specifically from Istria, and I believe that this is part of their work. The first problem is regarding the recognition of wine varieties which are also included in the description of the Department of Seeding and Dispersion, which refers to the problem facing winemakers especially in Istria, which is the inability, i.e. the non-recognition of the distinction of the varieties Terran and Refosca, and the inability to commercialise wine from these two varieties of vines because it is allegedly claimed to be one and the same. I wonder how it is possible to be in other countries, so I will specify only the closest example of the Republic of Slovenia allows the commercialisation of both types of wine and Terran and Refoska. So if that's possible in the European Union, then why wouldn't that be possible with us? Because this institution, which today would still be involved in making a solution to sweetening must and butter, and special wines, on the marketing of grapes, must and wine and other grape and wine products, etc. The second problem relates to the detour, another part of the work of this Institute, and concerns research into the economy of agriculture, economics in the processing of agricultural products and food production, as well as research in the fields of fruit growing, olive growing and vegetables. Reading these responsibilities has prompted me to point out another problem that comes from the real life of our farmers and refers to quotas of blue diesel for farmers. I don't know whether it was or not. If it wasn't working, I think it should have been done, if it was done, I think someone should have respected it as an expert opinion. Did anyone calculate how much by culture a hectare spends on blue diesel? Because it is generally known that different cultures have different needs for the use of machinery and/or irrigation with devices that also use aggregates that also consume blue diesel. I also think that this creates a huge discrimination between breeders such as cereals, vegetables and the like. Here were some specific examples that I believe should be dealt with in this country, not just questions about who will be sitting in this assembly. I hope that if this goes away, first I hope that this proposal will still go to second reading. However, I am skeptical about this hope and it seems that this will only be one change of the board at the front of buildings of various institutions, and this change in the table is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia insists on reforming public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60472	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60473	My colleague Vrbat, you were talking about the centralization of institutions, institutions, agencies that really led to the fact that here was a year ago the Office of the soil which was also in Slavonia was also moved to Zagreb, and this is now the second institution that also moves to Zagreb with the same principle. Furthermore, the Institute for, I'm not just talking about Slavonia. The Institute for Olives and Southern Cultures has also been moved to Zagreb. From earlier on, I would have said a little funny that the Institute for Agricultural Production and Food or the Institute for Agro-Economics and the Village is also in Zagreb. Here's Ergela Djakovo's hooking up too, and I don't know how to connect, either. There is no savings, dear colleague, especially when it comes to the Department of Dispersion and Seeding in Osijek, because when you look at this Office, then, when it is founded from the budget, it is allocated to the business of that Department of Seeding and Dispersion, so in 1999 50% for business. Now in 2009, that percentage is 16%. Everything else is done by the Bureau with its own business. So this bill is probably as unacceptable to you as it is to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60474	Mrs. Tanya Verbatt's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60475	Thank you, colleague Grubisic, for these additional details of the life of this Institute. So I think that this proposal just shows that the declared decentralisation is not being implemented and that every day we are increasingly going to have a primate in centralization, I guess, to be the most centralized country in Europe that I think we are already, and probably beyond. It is a pity that there is no likely real economic impact on this and that one respectable and profitable institution in this trend of general abolition is abolished without likely sufficient analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60476	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions for this agenda are met. We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 609. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: On amendments and additions to the Law establishing the Croatian Agricultural Centre with the final proposal for the Law P.Z. No. The 609th debate was held in the first reading. Secondly, all objections and proposals from the debate will be addressed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Secretary of State, please make a statement on the proposal for these conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60478	Thank you very much. Conclusions are not accepted since the proposed law is an integral part of the government's economic recovery programme and nothing more important would have changed, and this debate has also shown that the law is justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60479	This conclusion is not accepted by the government. I am voting on the proposal to conclude the SDP's Club of Representatives. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was not accepted, 41 votes for, 2 abstentions and 70 against. We move to declare the amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, Mr Dinko Buric, Bora Grubisic and Ivan Drmić's amendment to the article. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60480	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment does not comply with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. According to the Rules of Procedure, only articles of the proposed law can be amended, amended and amended in addition to the laws. Art. 2. The proposed amendments to the law are a transitional article, and the provisions on the name and seat of the Croatian Centre are contained in the article. 1. Law establishing a Croatian centre which is not subject to amendment and supplement the bill. Also, the centre is not managed by a manager who can have an assistant as regulated by law. The proposed amendment proposes that the Centre be managed by the Director and the Deputy Director, which is legally unacceptable because the Centre is managed by the Administrative Board appointed by the Founder while the Director manages the Centre and not, so it is unacceptable for the Director and Deputy Director to manage or manage the same institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60481	Mr. Boro Grubisic on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60482	Mr. Secretary of State, I didn't understand you very well, given that you were so little in your speech quickly, yes, but I think you're in great error as far as this center is concerned, and I think our amendments, unlike yours, have completely exceeded your entire legislative proposal. You and your legal proposal, in fact, are being held completely unsuspecting and harmful in an economic or political sense. With our amendments, we have tried to correct this and I demand a vote on our amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60483	Thank you. Who is for this amendment to the Club of Representatives which the Government does not normally accept, please raise your hand? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. Please, let's get involved and vote on the law. The result? The law was passed by most votes, 78 votes in favour, no abstentions and 31 against. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 618. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal to discuss the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was filed by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec's representative. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Josip Kraljičković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60485	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, I have the honour and honour to present to you the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. The reason for the adoption of this law is already known Program for the implementation of the economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory was established by the Regulation of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory Service in order to carry out the tasks of providing professional support for the development of agricultural production in family farms. The Law on Agriculture, the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development, the Law on Marine Fisheries provides for the Croatian Institute for Agriculture and Advisory as a public institution to carry out agricultural advisory activities as well as public service. The Croatian Agricultural Chamber was established by the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber of Last year as an independent and independent, professional and business organisation that promotes, protects and represents the interests of its members. And the members are all who are enrolled in the register of agricultural holdings. It means about 194,000 agricultural holdings. By passing this law, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber will take over about 250 employees of the Croatian Institute of Agricultural Advisory, their equipment, space and financial resources to carry out the planned jobs that will contribute to the rationalisation of jobs and tasks, and thus reduce costs. We're counting on a reduction in costs from the level and base of pay, a alignment with certain regulations of up to 20%. This bill proposes that membership be abolished... and a chamber contribution is introduced which is required to pay the members of the chamber, the users... [[You don't understand.]] payments in agriculture, in accordance with the State Support Act, to agricultural and rural development. [[You don't understand.]] The decision on the height of the chamber contribution shall be made by the members themselves in their chamber assembly, and shall be calculated by... The Agency for Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. [[You don't understand.]] It is also important to highlight here that sponsorship over the proposal of this Chamber Organisation Act, we also have from the French Chamber of Agriculture, and that I had the opportunity and honour to be with our representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber in Brussels where we were accepted at the highest levels, where we received maximum support as a state to establish such an important national institution. It's also important here now to highlight... propose legislation, that we have a special opportunity to directly participate in the creation of very respectable and strong national institutions that we have not had so far. [[You don't understand.]] As the previous centre, so is now the chamber here, and thus such institutions come to every part of Croatia, and to Slavonia, and to Dalmatia, as well as to Podravin, Posavina, etc. What's important to emphasize,... In the previous debate, funding was based solely on the powers conferred by the law, there is no profitable and classical competition and income achievement, so the institutions established here created conditions for the operation and establishment of states, and not a classical market, so we hold that through this work of the Chamber of Public Authorities, which has the advisory service will continue and provide better and more efficient work, thus direct management and participation of farmers themselves from all over the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] It will also reduce the impact of public and private, or private, in public activity, we have had a previous example that we have heard more or less of the comments from certain clubs of the representatives, which we have received in the Government, which was written by the Director of the Department of Dispersion and Seeds, so that it is personally a matter of personal interest, and we believe that this is also a good reason for these laws and these laws today which are on the agenda and bring them. Here we are holding that this bill will be accepted. I thank you for your time and attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60486	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the chairman of the Committee of the Committee of Representatives, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60487	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, with the final proposal of the law, as a home working body. The debate expressed dissatisfaction with the integration of institutions into one, a justification for the reorganisation of agencies and institutions in order to rationalise business, and the fact that there is no assessment of the effects of such reorganisations. The efficiency of carrying out the tasks is questionable, since the well-organised and established Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory is attached to the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, whose activities have not yet fully been implemented. They are therefore not realistic comparisons with the countries of Austria and France in which agricultural and advisory activities are carried out within the agricultural chambers of practice. In view of Article 7(5), it is considered unacceptable that the Croatian Agricultural Chamber shall, as an interested association, make a decision to offer staff and subsistence staff contracts to the institutions and not to them. It also notes Articles 24, 25 of the final proposal for a law. In particular, they prescribe the management of a chamber contribution, which is mandatory for all members of the chamber, which exercise the right to direct payments in agriculture, and the chamber contribution is calculated by the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. It is not defined who will and how to account for the payment of the contributions of the members of the chamber, who are in the register, but who do not exercise the right to direct payments in agriculture. With the necessity that this must also be legally determined, the proposing representative also agreed. Taking into account all the comments, the proposal was made to propose that the Committee propose to the Croatian Parliament that the debate on the bill in question be implemented in the first reading, but the proposal was rejected by the majority. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority vote of 6 for, and 2 against, the Croatian Parliament, to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60488	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60489	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, I will refer very briefly to this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. We estimate that neither the ideas nor the implementation of this proposal are good, and we believe that it is not possible, by an urgent procedure, to adopt such amendments and amendments to the law, but rather to carry out the debate in the first reading, and to clarify until the second reading, certain illogicalities proposed by this proposal. The accession of the agricultural advisory service to the agricultural chamber is explained by the practice of European countries. In particular, the practice of Austria and France is highlighted, but Croatia does not have a tradition of chamber organisation of farmers, so it is doubtful whether an institution that is well-organised, which works well to join the agricultural chamber, which has just been established and which is not yet fully operational. The Institute for Agriculture Advisory was founded in 1997, and operates territorially, so employees work in the counties and are closest to agricultural producers. The agricultural chamber still lacks territorial organisation, so it is questionable how the advisory service would operate in the future, which would be managed by the agricultural chamber. The agricultural advisory service is a specialised institution, which assists agricultural economies in making decisions by providing quality and professional information, encourages the cooperation of family farms with institutions, but also with individuals important for successful agricultural production, intervening measures, supporting the development of family farms and rural areas as a whole. The objectives to be achieved, which are defined as follows: work should be taken to increase the competitiveness of agricultural production, the progress of rural areas, the information and education of farmers, to ensure accessibility of knowledge, to improve technology, to increase production and quality and marketability of products, to connect farmers, to develop a system of agricultural education. So one large part of the focus of the agricultural advisory service is that it is to be a service to a family holding that actually needs the most such information in Croatia and which are not so public and available. So, this proposal now wants to provide the Agricultural Chamber with public authority, which the current law actually does not have. However, the Chamber of Agriculture is a professional and business organisation, an interesting organisation, and their objectives are with those listed I will only say this part relating to the interests of the organization, which is to protect and represent the interests of the members of the chamber and that is to align the interests of the members of the chamber. From this legal arrangement, organisations and objectives of these 2 institutions would be more logical if the Office for Agricultural Advisory Service had to be located somewhere to not act as a special institution to find its place in the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village than in the Agricultural Chamber. We believe, as is said in the previous bill, that we should consider what should be covered by the Center for Agriculture, Village and Food and only then actually discuss the fate of the Department of Agricultural Advisory. Although the 2001 Agriculture Act still provides for the establishment of the Agricultural Chamber itself, the law and establishment of the Agricultural Chamber began in 2009. So over a long period of time, there were some obstacles in how to organize the Agricultural Chamber. And the existing law regulates the primary organization of the Agricultural Chamber, and it almost has no public authority under the existing law. Employees of the Agricultural Chamber themselves say the Agriculture Act, the Agriculture Chamber, should be completed and debated in this regard. And now a few concrete remarks. These changes to Art. 5. They shall adopt an amendment. 24. where the way of financing is changed and where, first of all, primary funding will go from the state budget, because that is how this part of the public authority, i.e. the Agricultural Advisory Service, will be financed. So instead of chamber membership, a chamber contribution is being introduced here. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 6. it is unacceptable in paragraph 1 that the chamber contribution accounts, but also suspends the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development and that it pays them to the chamber's jury account. No one has the right to, in such a way, confiscate from the members of the Agricultural Chamber the funds belonging to it under the Agricultural Aid Act, but that is not even the function of the Payment Agency. Her function is something else, and we think that this part should actually be thrown out of the law. The members of the chamber themselves must account for and pay for the chamber's contribution. In particular, it is a controversial article. 7 and, in points 5, 6 and 7, where it is said that, following the adoption of acts referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, and the registration and erasure of the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Office in the court register under the law, etc., the chamber will offer to officials and tenants involved in the conduct of the work undertaken by this law the conclusion of the Labour Treaty, and to those who cannot be offered the conclusion of the Labour Treaty and cannot be deployed, a working relationship will be cancelled. This is the first time in this whole set of laws in which we are discussing whether or not to join or remove certain institutions to say that part of the employees will not be able to continue the work, or that someone else will decide whether they will remain in a working relationship or not. If we all estimate that today's Advisory Service is a professional institution where knowledge and people who can perform their duties are concentrated, then it is not normal and it is not logical that there is a headship of the Agricultural Chamber to decide who will remain in the affairs and who will eventually not and who will be cancelled by the Labour Treaty. In this regard, we have also submitted an amendment and we believe that if all the institutions that we attach to some other institutions take over the total number of employees that should be done with the Agricultural Advisory Service as well. So we suggest that, however, the Prime Minister accepts that this proposal goes into second reading, as well as the previous proposal, so that in one time period, we present the good and bad sides of these proposals and that in the second reading we come out with better proposals. If it is not accepted that this bill goes to a second reading of the SDP club, it will not accept such a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60490	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60491	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. For the same reasons, which, of course, I will not explain again because I did so by discussing the previous item of the agenda on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, which was already here on several occasions the reasons why a series of amendments and additions to certain laws are being made, I would just like to stress that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the amendments and additions in question, i.e. the amendment and additions to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Namely, the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber was adopted in the Republic of Croatia at the end of February of last year and was published in the 2009 National newspaper, which finally created formal legal assumptions for the establishment and formation of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. In accordance with the applicable Law, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber has the property of a legal person established in the City of Zagreb, who is independent and independent and professional and business organization and its basic objectives and activities, promotion, protection and representation of the interests of its members and their education and counselling, and support members of the Chamber with the aim of improving agricultural production and rural areas and finally promoting the value of the conservation and promotion of agriculture and rural areas to the overall social economic development of the Republic of Croatia. We from the Croatian Democratic Community Club are of the opinion that the Agricultural Chamber, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable law, is indeed a very solid model of the organisation of farmers in the Republic of Croatia, who have been in recent years, I think that in this part we can all agree, in front of the authorities of the state authorities, often insufficiently organised and rarely completely divided in their positions. Such a situation or better said situation did not suit farmers or the state, and all for reasons because, during those years, farmers did not have a single representative in charge of agriculture who, on the one hand, would have credibility and, on the other hand, a partner spirit and knowledge in a professional and correct way to articulate the common interests of all agricultural producers in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, by adopting the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, it is fully assumed that if this is not already in the near future, the Chamber is indeed becoming an equal partner and associate with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the creation and effective implementation of agricultural policy measures. Of course, by representing the common interests of all Croatian farmers. It is necessary to say that the chamber way of organising and performing farmers is important, except that they are in the interest of farmers themselves, and the authorities of the state authorities responsible for the area of agriculture, given the fact that they will have one interlocutor in all future negotiations and agreements concerning the currentity of agricultural policy. Finally, we feel it is important to stress this as a clear information that this or similar way of organising agricultural producers has a long-standing tradition of successful action in many European Union countries, such as Austria, Germany and France, and that the idea of setting up and setting up a Croatian agricultural chamber that has been followed by war debates of interested partners matures for a full 7 years, in order to ultimately obtain its form and structure as defined by the applicable Law. When it comes to the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, which I have already said at the outset that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support, it is important to say that they are going towards further power of the Chamber both professionally and financially. On the one hand, by taking over the work of agricultural advisory activities, which is on the trail of the best European experiences, and on the other hand clearly, transparently, and more effectively defining how to secure the necessary resources for the smooth work of the Chamber. Namely, in accordance with Article 7. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is intended for the Chamber to take over the work of employees, equipment, rights and obligations, and financial resources to carry out the work undertaken by the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory, so from the institution that was established since 1997 under the Regulation on the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory. This means, in particular, that the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture will carry out agricultural advisory activities as a public service to be financed from the state budget and that the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory will stop working within a clearly prescribed period. It is also important here to mention how the Chamber will provide agricultural advisory services, farmers and fishermen in the framework of its professional service to be managed by the head, and within which 250 employees will be taken over by the Croatian Institute. I would just briefly look back here and express my personal hope that when the employees of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory Service are taken over, such as Mrs. Zgrebec will make sure that all employees are taken over. Because I was personally one of a certain number of years president of the board of directors and I can only point out that this service has really contributed significantly to the development of Croatia's agriculture during the previous period which should still be further teamed up in the future, so we hope that within the framework of today, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce will continue to work in the same way. Furthermore, Article 5 and 6 of the Law amending the 25th and 24th articles of the applicable Law are significantly more transparent and more efficient sources from which funds for the operation of the chamber are provided. The obligation and method of determining the Chamber's contribution and the way it is calculated and paid, which will certainly contribute to the material and financial security of the chamber's functioning. Therefore, the basis of the above can be concluded that it is proposed to introduce a chamber contribution which, with the resources of the state budget, is intended to carry out public activities and to carry out a agricultural advisory activity should constitute a basic source of financing for the work of the chamber. Which means he's giving up the originally planned membership fee solution. In line with the proposed solution, the bonds of payment of the chamber contribution would be all the members of the chamber that exercise the right to direct payments... of course in accordance with the law on state support for agriculture and rural development, and the level of the chamber contribution would be determined by the chamber assembly, which is a perfectly logical solution for us. It also seems quite logical to us that the Agency for the Payments of Agriculture and Rural Development will calculate and suspend the chamber contribution and ultimately pay it to the Chamber's account. In view of the fact that the Agency only has data on agricultural holdings which exercise the right to direct payment. However, here, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, I must warn the promoter, and I think Mrs Zgrebec has also said that this can only be a transitional solution. So this year, let's say, until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, because the future Agency will neither be able or will be allowed to carry out these tasks because it will not be allowed by the European Commission. Finally, by respecting everything previously said but also the fact that in other European countries such as Austria and Slovenia we have positive examples of taking over advisory roles in agriculture but other matters of state administration by their chambers, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60492	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60493	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The obligation to set up the Agricultural Chamber is set out in the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There were three key reasons for that. First, there are over 800 different associations of agricultural producers in Croatia and it was practically impossible to determine who is legitimately representing their common interests. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the RES in this population of agricultural associations and producers could not have an equal partner who could be equally involved on the basis of expert bases in co-creation and implementation of agricultural policy measures. And thirdly, there are various institutions and institutions among them and advisory services that should be the service of agricultural producers, and this sense should indeed be effective. It is therefore logical to conclude that agricultural producers need to be associated with this advisory service, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded on 23 July 2010 and did. And for this reason, today we are discussing amendments and additions to the Agricultural Chamber Act, which will take over 250 employees of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory Service, their equipment, financial resources and space, which will contribute to rational business, rational organisation of jobs and tasks, reduction of costs and savings of budgets by 20%, but we also believe in the HSS club of course and more efficient work of consultants in synergy with selected members of the Agricultural Chamber. So I can say that we at the HSS Club support the Government's proposal to amend the existing Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. We believe that this proposal is welcome to contribute to further strengthening the chamber through the inclusion of professional advisory services, which is on the trail of the best European experiences. We also believe that it is important to define the financing of the work of the Agricultural Chamber so that it can indeed begin with the achievement of the tasks entrusted to it by law. The purpose of the Chamber of Agriculture is to directly involve agricultural holdings in a business professional institution which, as a responsible and relevant partner, will assist in the creation and effective implementation of agricultural policy measures and development programmes. The agricultural chamber should contribute to strengthening agricultural entrepreneurship, business integration with the food industry, agricultural products distributors, and in order to combine the common interests of the single action in establishing a balance between the production, processing and consumption of agricultural products both domestic and foreign markets. The idea of establishing a Croatian agricultural chamber dates back to 2002 when the first draft law was prepared since the Agricultural Law provided for the establishment of a Croatian agricultural chamber. Unfortunately, in 2002, the law was not referred to in further procedure but started a period for which we can say that a period of broad public debate was developing the consciousness of future users on the need to establish a unique form of organisation and gathering of farmers who would represent their professional interests in the public and who would be a true partner to the Government of the Republic of Croatia but also a co-creator of measures of agricultural policy and development programmes and their effective implementation. For 7 years after numerous discussions with interested partners, the first Croatian agricultural chamber received its form and structure defined in the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. The law was passed in early 2009. Of course, the tradition of the work of agricultural chambers in Europe dates back to the end of the 19th to the beginning of the 20th century and in its long and rich past such as the state of an independent organisation has proved useful to agriculture and the state. They made agriculture more autonomy possible and the state relieved its administration by transferring certain tasks to agricultural chambers. Examples that are often mentioned are Austria and Slovenia where the chambers have taken over the advisory role in agriculture, and these examples speak of a positive and effective way of transferring the state administration's affairs directly to the chamber. Such a way of organising advisory activities best enables the development of services in accordance with the needs of those to whom it is intended. This will make education better and more direct for users, especially now that we are on the verge of EU entry, which brings new challenges and coordination to farmers if they want to survive on the EU's demanding market. In addition, the transfer of tasks from the authority of the state administration to the chamber is the light of the development of partnership with the state administration, which is one of the priorities set in the government's Economic Recovery Programme of the Republic of Croatia. It is these chambers of Austria and Slovenia that we take as an example that have three important roles and in a similar way will work the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. For example, I will specify the tasks of the Austrian and Slovenian Chamber of Agriculture are being carried out. They shall combine data on all their members and their production resources in one place and, of course, draw data from such a chamber base to inform and encourage membership and market for the supply of agricultural products and services on the market, transfer subsidies to agricultural producers, issue documents to farmers from areas in which public authorities are transferred, and on the basis of records kept by chambers or control operations and monitoring services carried out by the control services within the chamber. They also represent the interests of the farmers of the chamber members through the participation of the chamber representatives in the adoption of legal and implementing rules. And what is also important and what we are now dealing with with these changes and additions to the law is free consultation of farmers from the field of legal, social advice, tax advice, organisation of complementary activities and therefore tertiary activities in the country, but also direct offers and sales of products on the agricultural holding In the organisational structure of these chambers is the joint decentralised action of the chamber, and the representatives of the chamber are present on the ground and are available to their members. In addition, these agricultural chambers are equal to the ministry's partners in the regulation and are under the control of farmers themselves. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture was designed and established as a public rights organisation based on the membership of natural and legal persons engaged in agricultural activities. In the interest of the faster development of Croatian agriculture and the adaptation of family farms to market conditions, the role of the chamber as an independent business professional organisation is therefore extremely important. Since the members of the chamber are elected representatives of agricultural producers, we can say their chamber representatives, and there are 119 of them from all over Croatia, they have the legitimacy to represent the interests of farmers and now, in synergy with the advisory service, will be able specifically to remove the obstacles so far and be more effective in preparing Croatian agriculture for the challenges that EU accession brings with it. The Chamber should represent the common interests of agricultural producers and farmers, but should also facilitate negotiations with the agricultural sector because it will have a relevant partner with its counterpart. The credibility of the chamber as a relevant partner in representing the interest of farmers is based on the fact that members of the chamber assembly have been elected to the elections held this year throughout the country in all counties. We expect, of course, at the HSS Club, that the chamber be recognised by the Ministry of Agriculture as an associate and equal partner and that, in solving the problems that arise in the agriculture sector, the Ministry of Agriculture communicates directly with representatives of the Agricultural Chamber, because indeed there are people in the chamber who can represent and represent agricultural producers. I repeat, they were elected in the elections and they have the legitimacy to participate in the creation of agricultural policy measures and of course development programmes in agriculture and rural development. Therefore, we at the HSS Club support the adoption of this law and we advocate that it is actually and operationally implemented on the ground as soon as possible for the benefit of the development of Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60494	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS and HSU club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60495	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. And this law is one of the laws that the Government proposes on the basis of a proposal for the reorganisation of agencies, institutes, funds and other legal entities with public powers created by the Ministry of Administration, and for the purpose of implementing the Economic Recovery Programme as one of the measures of public administration reform. The Croatian Agricultural Chamber Act was passed in February 2009, and the chamber worked with great difficulty at the beginning of this year when the statute and all other necessary acts were adopted in order to register and start work. The Croatian Institute for the Agricultural Advisory Service was established by the government's regulation back in 1997. What is said in the final bill? In the assessment of the situation, the applicant states that the basis of this law, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, except for the activities prescribed so far, will also carry out agricultural advisory activities as a public service financed by the State budget of the Agriculture Act. He also said he will take over about 250 employees of the Croatian Institute for Agriculture Advisory. And as we have already said at the Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village and this kind of agricultural chamber will be a large system with a large number of employees is a question of savings, and the question is how all of this will affect Croatian agricultural production and agricultural producers themselves. How many chambers are there now employees in the professional service? This would be interesting to know also because of how these salaries will be determined by people in the professional service of the chamber because it is obvious that these will be taken over by employees of the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service, so around 250 of them continue to be financed from the state budget so far, and other employees are probably from other sources of funding such as chamber contributions, revenue from their own activities, exceptional revenues, etc. Maybe that's where the problem might arise. We at HNS, HSU really see the next problem here. Furthermore, the question arises as to why these amendments to the law are proposed in Article 3 that the work of the Chamber's professional service is managed by the head rather than by the secretary so far. As if at least it were the head of the Office of State Administration in a regional or regional self-government unit. If we're determined for that solution then it needs to be evened across the entire chamber system, for example. In the craft chamber. You can't see anything from the explanation why we're moving the secretary and introducing the president. It is illogical and appears to be an inappropriate solution referred to in Article 6 which is that the chamber contribution accounts for and suspends the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and pays it to the gyrocalculation of the chamber. Namely, the chamber contribution is paid by the chamber members, and it is determined by the chamber assembly. Therefore, the competences of two different institutions are mixed, one determines the contribution, and the other calculates and suspends what we hold inappropriate. Article 7 of the bill of law of HNS and HSU has the same point of view as that of my colleague Zgrebec, so I will not repeat it. Therefore, due to the ambiguities arising under the proposal of this law, the HNS and HSU also propose a new reading, so a third reading. In case that happens and any misunderstandings are removed, the HNS and HSU club will support this proposal, but if it doesn't come to the third reading, we won't support it like we have on the bench right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60496	Thank you. On behalf of the HSDSS Club Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60497	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So, first of all, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I will say that we fully support the government's proposed measures in terms of the reorganisation of individual agencies, funds, institutions and other associations because we see it as a measure that is really necessary right now and probably as one of the only or at least possible solutions to disburse the state budget and certain public costs of public administration and to pass on, that these costs of the functioning of these agencies and funds are passed on to some other entities. So, when I say something now about this concept of the Agricultural Chamber Act, we are not talking against the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Programme on the reorganisation of these agencies, but we simply need to comment exactly on this accession of the Agricultural Advisory Service to the Agency because we believe that no decision that is generally implemented, when things are generalised, is not a completely good enough decision. So far, over the past few years, we've created a series of agencies, we've created a series of funds. This was particularly interesting to observe in agricultural production in the agricultural sector. Somehow, the impression is that with those agencies that we formed a few years ago, like I said, we've bureaucratized only agricultural production. We've created a peasant and commercialist, we're asking him to be an accountant, we're asking him to do banking business, he's expected to be some equal partner in competing with certain European funds. So we've made everything out of him and we're asking him for everything, and we're looking less and less for him to be a peasant. Some data suggest that agricultural producers spend on administrative matters on average from six working days to two days, i.e. administration and their agricultural production, on average. For this reason, I think it is necessary to comment on a certain way and on the work of the service itself, the Agriculture Advisory Service. The agricultural advisory service in the area from which I come, so from Slavonia and Baranja had one special role back ten years, one positive role back ten years. I mean, first of all, when I talk about a programme for the availability of agricultural land when, at that point, it was necessary to provide the highest quality services and future OPGs and newly formed OPGs for proper competition in agricultural land and local self-government programmes in order to cope with this whole new process that was very important, very important for the agriculture sector. They collected documentation, went out into the field, and controlled the quality of the soil, the quality of the fruit material. They assisted the OPGs in the process of negotiations with banks on lending and production and the purchase of start-up machines. They controlled the most important thing in the name of the state is the flow of capital investments. This is one segment that is a little bit spoken of today, which is a very important segment because the state, through incentives and capital investments, has singled out huge funds in agricultural production, and we have the impression that one of the few regulators and controllers of this cash flow were exactly the professional services of agricultural advisory services. In any case, they could talk about their large role in the education of the population, published a number of professional publications, works, etc. etc. The impression is that without the advisory service many of the 170 thousand family farms would have to this day, especially in the process of beginning their work would be in big trouble. The general assessment of the area of eastern Slavonia and Baranja is that the Agricultural Advisory Service has fully fulfilled its role. And now what have we done with this bill? With this bill of law, we have a fully teamed team of high-quality people who we have somehow managed to gather into a team work where we have doctors of science and masters of science, where we have a mass of engineers who have devoted their entire working life to agricultural production and now we are drowning it in an association that has only been in existence for a year. So, of the one institution that makes up a team of extraordinary experts, we make one average, one average association. In doing so, we have nothing to do with this association called the Agricultural Chamber. We think that there should be and exist in a way that is everywhere in Western Europe we have given, we have passed on public powers. So, we brought in a dowry advisory, the Agricultural Advisory Service brought in a dowry to say so under the quotes of the Institute and the category of public authority to an association. The agricultural chamber in this way will come except for employees of a very high educational profile, will also get their equipment, will get a single space that has been quality teamed these years. And in the end, he'll get the resources to work. And here we come to terms of things, or we come to the fact that this whole process that we're doing here through these few laws we're doing to relieve the budget with certain costs of these public services. And in this case, in the case of the agricultural advisory service and those 42, the three million they cost annually will remain on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the fact is that this budgetary expenditure remains a commitment to the budget. And then the logical question arises where is this rationalization factor which is the main leit motive for what we want to do with this law. I'd like to say my opinion on Article 6 of this law here as well as my predecessor. So it's about an article that regulates funding. The chamber here will be financed as is said in a different way, and this is how the paying agency for all taxpayers, or members of the Chamber, and these are all as all members of the OPG bearers are said,... their incentives, the capital investments found in their accounts, the removal of the chamber contribution and the payment of it in the Chamber. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are two fundamental questions here. First, is this exactly the transfer of money, whether it's a legal obligation and whether it's the job of the paying agency as an institution. And the other thing is whether it's an act of removing that money without the consent of the OPG bearer, whether it's a constitutional or anti-constitutional category. I think that this matter should also be considered that such a funding model as proposed in Article 6 is on very glassy feet and the question is whether it is as a constitutional category sustainable. Article 7 is, of course, something that the predecessors have shown their disagreement about. And I can't agree that certain people who are a very high professional profile, who, when the advisory agricultural service was formed, would believe legal decisions that it would be a quality and permanent service and employed in that service, are now in a position to be technologically surplus, in the agricultural chamber, not to say I don't lamentate further, so I say that tomorrow they are left at the will of the management staff, i.e. management of that agricultural chamber. And in conclusion, a logical question is being raised, when we formed an advisory agricultural service, we probably had some idea, probably there was a market need, a professional, technological need for such a team to be formed through the office and through regional services. The question is, what happened today, whether these needs are less or less today, when we are now in the office category as an institution descending to the level of one association, we are drowning it into an association that lasts only 12 months or more. So we think that the effect of the government's decision to streamline will not be achieved in this way, because I repeat still the key thing, the measure of the matter is that 42 million budgets for financing this service are still on the budget of the Government of Croatia, we're just going to say folk change is not neck, but neck is not called agricultural and advisory services, but will now be called the agricultural chamber. So from all of this, we conclude that it would be good for this legal text to be analysed through another reading and we suggest that the proposer pulls this through, so we go into discussion through another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60498	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. As we announced last night, we continue with the work and agenda point that we started earlier, and this is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 618. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I remind you that today we are continuing to discuss this item of the agenda that we opened, so October 22nd of this year. It is up to debate on behalf of the HDSSB club, representative of Mr Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60500	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In the area of 5 Slavonia-Baranja County there are almost 56% of total orans in the Republic of Croatia. Slavonia and Baranja owns all the resources necessary for the development of agriculture as a strategic branch of the economy from agricultural land, sufficient amounts of water, forest and preserved environment. Unfortunately, all policies so far have been without a clear strategy and concepts of the development of agriculture and food industry. In this way, a great injustice was made against Slavonia and Baranja by making it the poorest economic region, systematically destroying, above all, agricultural and food production that was the basis for the development of this area. The best indicator of the central government's relationship with Croatian agriculture, the village and the food industry is the fact of 15 billion kuna imported agricultural products in 2009. The government of the Republic of Croatia and agriculture ministers showed neither knowledge nor will nor desire to recognise Croatian agriculture as the fundamental economic branch of Slavonia and Baranja. On the contrary, everything has been done in order not to create preconditions to create conditions for living honestly from their own work on their own natural resources through their own agricultural production of family farms. These findings confirm the following facts. Croatia has a plan document of the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture, but there is no strategic definition of what, as much as for who to produce, which only favours the Agro Mafia. Croatia has no vision of how to make agriculture profitable. They are not paid by law to secure incentives for peasants, and the debt of the state to farmers is more than billions of kunas for several years. It destroys its own food production and encourages the import of foreign food products, making the village and the peasants desperate, poor and ashamed. We remember the spring and the desperate peasants on the roads that here the minister even tried to cheat and deny 40% of the incentives. But then under pressure from the public and this government and this resolute ministry gave in to legitimate demands from peasants and promised to pay them back 85% of what was in the money, which was in the vouchers. These days we see that these promises are also played out especially when it comes to payout ratios in vouchers and in money. We also remember all the harvests so far when farmers also had to fight on the road for the price of wheat and agricultural cultures, while such things in regulated countries are regulated through the stock exchanges and previously signed contracts. The Croatian state has done everything to destroy the domestic market for agricultural products. She did everything to reduce the production of meat, milk, fruit and vegetables, exclusively through impaired market relations and excessive imports of agro mafia to the near government. Today, in Slavonia and Baranja, the meat industry is almost dead and its products can hardly be found in stores. Today Slavonia and Baranja is only a raw material base, and perhaps the best example of this and the fact of exports is more than 200 million liters of milk from Slavonia and Baranja to Zagreb where cream is taken, and then the same milk returns to Slavonia at a triple price as if there were no opportunities and needs to build such industry in Slavonia, which would then allow for the employment and production of dairy products. Nothing has been done either to create conditions for the construction of the drying plant, for frozen fruit and vegetables, or for processing them, although all necessary resources exist. Here's an example. A good example is the government's attitude towards Slavonia and Baranja's needs when it comes to "ULO coolers" d.o.o. in Osijek. The founders and owners of this company in equal shares are Osijek-Baranja County and the city of Osijek. In agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture and then Minister Bozidar Pankretić last year, the City of Osijek and the County accepted a proposal to amend the social contract, and these changes required "National Major Market" to acquire a ownership stake in the "ULO coolant". To this end last year, Resorary Minister Bozidar Pankretic transferred 5 million kuna to the National market for its stake in the "ULO refrigerator" d.o.o. Osijek. But this money was never passed on to "ULO coolants" because, meanwhile, there was a change in the minister of agriculture, and one of the first moves of the new, or old agriculture minister, Petar Cobankovic was a ban on the Management Council of "National Major Markets" to accept an amended social contract that had already been accepted by Osijek-Baranja County and the City of Osijek, in line with the resolution ministry. At the astonishment of everyone in Osijek, it was said that these funds should be invested for a similar project in the Zagreb area. Mayor of Osijek-Baranja County Dr. Šišljagic repeatedly intervened in writing and verbally with Minister Cobankovic not only to stop the implementation of this project from being of exceptional importance not only for the City of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County but also for the whole of Slavonia and Baranja because it is about investing in agriculture as a strategic branch of our region's economic development. Here's the last time he intervened ten days ago, but all the attempts so far have failed even without an answer. Or out of the mentioned 5 million kuna stands on the account of "National Major Markets" while in Slavonia and Baranja, thousands of tons of fruit and vegetables fall, especially this year. So why should we do so in Slavonia and Baranja and for which projects should we expect the help of the Croatian government if not for the development projects of agriculture. Having nothing against investment in any other part of the Republic of Croatia, which can justify the intention of developing projects in the area of agriculture in Zagreb, but in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. And the Minister of Agriculture in the Government of the Republic of Croatia is Slavonac. Unbelievable but true. It should not be too surprising then, then, that already famous decision by the same minister about the World Orac Championship award in Biograd at sea. The Ministry of Agriculture has impoverished the village and allowed foreign banks to register on the property of our peasants. These same banks are now threatening to confiscate property from people who have started operating programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture, and due to the lack of payment of capital contributions, they have come into debt slavery and are no longer able to repay loans to banks. The Ministry of Agriculture has not done anything to resolve the situation in the past 10 years with regard to the unsettled cadastre and grantovnica in order to address the problems with unmistakable agricultural land. In fact, measured agricultural land is a prerequisite for privatising state agricultural land. The Minister of Agriculture and the Government is unable to privatise state agricultural land through the Agricultural Land Act for eight years. This has led to a large number of family farms in the position that land will not be able to enter the ARCOD, i.e. it will not be able to obtain a financial envelope, which is one of the conditions for direct payments. The crown of complete ignorance of the lack of energy and position in the future of agriculture is also in the proposed measures of the IPARD programme where Croatia has not advocated that the IPARD programme from EU funds can raise storage capacity for fruits and vegetables with the ULO regime, i.e. storage facilities for cereals and olives above a thousand tonnes. And an even bigger mistake is that because of the failure of the resolution ministry, it will not be possible to obtain open-air irrigation systems, and it is constantly said that this government advocates an increase in irrigation areas in the Republic of Croatia. It can be concluded from everything that we have lost valuable time adapting to EU agriculture. The Croatian peasant and Croatian village were made poor and therefore the announced outing of peasants is not only due to the failure to pay off capital or compensation damage but the real reason for the dissatisfaction and Croatian peasants, but also Croatian fishermen's senselessness, ignorance and incompetence of those responsible for the loss is without hope for a better and better future. Declarative agriculture is one of the most important strategic branches but it is only on paper. Multiple times both the government and the resolution ministries have advocated and advocated other strategic branches of the economy such as tourism and shipbuilding against which we in Slavonia and Baranja really have nothing. But it is not right that when it comes to agriculture, everything remains only in words. After all, the relationship between the restoring ministries towards Croatian agriculture and the village is fully in line with the Central Government's relationship with all of Slavonia and Baranja. Here, the Croatian state failed to state Croatian peasants' views in negotiations with the EU. In the negotiation process, it was not intended to address key problems in the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. Peasants have not been asked or asked how they see their future in the EU. Taking into account the need to change views in the negotiation process for another 50 points of view in the process is the negotiation to take a position. Croatia's agricultural chamber should also be included, but it must be organised further and significantly better in order to be able to fight for the interests of Croatia's agriculture. The Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory is a public service, and now joins into a volunteer chamber system. It is therefore necessary to take a good look at what is meant by the merger of public service into the chamber system. The inclusion of the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service in Croatia can be justified in the light of efforts to increase the number of consultants to work on technology transfer, producer education and project writing for IPARD programmes. On the other hand, there is a question of a possible weakness in the role of advisory services by including it in Croatia's agricultural chamber. The Chamber's contribution only makes sense if these funds will increase the number of these advisers in the Republic of Croatia, such as the example of Slovenia where it has 3 times as many for the family agricultural holding of consultants. However, it is questionable to introduce a chamber contribution to be paid by directly paid agricultural users in accordance with the Law on State Support and Rural Development, while members of the chamber are registered as legal and natural persons in the register of agricultural holdings. It is therefore apparent that some members will not pay a chamber contribution because they will not be in direct payments. And these few examples are in favor of claims that each passing of the law over the knee and by emergency procedure is not good. The HDSSB is for a strong Croatian agricultural chamber, but this bill does not ensure it. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture must be further organised in order to be able to truly fight for the interests of the Republic of Croatia's agriculture. For this reason, the HDSSB Club will not support this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, especially as it goes by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60501	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. And at 10.48, it's time to sign up for 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60502	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, here I am going to relate to Mr. Buric's words, and I really don't think in principle it should be against the clearly agricultural chamber. We've got HGK, we've got a crafts chamber, a doctor's office, attorney's etc., but until, for example, The HGK or the Chamber of crafts is financed primarily by the means of employers, i.e. craftsmen, here the financing of the Agricultural Chamber is somewhat different. However, what is the point of this being seen on the page. 2nd of this proposal for a law where it is literally said that the budget positions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Rural Development for 2010 planned the funds for the work of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory in the amount of €42.3 million, of which 25.3 million remained by the end of the year. For 2011. 43.1 million kuna, and for 2012. 41.9 million kuna. For Croatia, the agricultural chamber was planned for the 2010 budget lines of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. 100 thousand kuna. Then I also quote on this page. 2. says that by adopting this law, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber will take over about 250 employees of the Croatian Institute of Agricultural Advisory, their equipment, their space, financial resources, etc. A few days ago, this Dom shut down a whole series of agencies. Let's say for the promotion of exports all the way there to the Development and Employment Fund. We, I don't know, often and yesterday, did the Prime Minister praise that exports in this year have grown slightly compared to that dramatic downturn in 2009. Okay, it grew that's true, but because of the recovery of Western economies. And our imports are on the other hand, which some also feel is good, and I wouldn't exactly agree, I fell. Why? Due to the decline of purchasing power in the Republic of Croatia, the reduction of economic activity, and what is clearly reflected in the budget, i.e. The VAT through which the budget items are filled in a good part. So we have this situation in the Republic of Croatia. On the one hand, we remove certain institutions, vis-a-vis the moment and time in which we find ourselves I think it's the right thing to do, and on the other hand we create some hybrids like this bill, and it's exclusively by certain party criteria. True, this Article 7 states on page 5 that on the day of entry into force of this law, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber takes over business equipment, rights, obligations, financial resources etc. from the Croatian Institute for Agricultural and Advisory Service. Now there's a question that's actually the job of that advisory service. And then here it is said on page 3 of Article 4a that I quote just some "technical and technological improvement of agricultural economies, and the provision of expert advice, instruction, practical premonitions from agriculture, fisheries, and the participation of development plans for agricultural economies, investment programmes, etc. Participation in the design and implementation of agricultural and fisheries policy measures in accordance with the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia" etc. Now the key question is, is it the business of the agricultural chamber to deal with these agricultural advisory activities? Or, on the other hand, it's an attempt at mastery. Who? The HSS institution that counts at the moment 250 people. I claim that the business of the Agricultural Chamber is not the job of the advisory service. But now the Agricultural Chamber run by the HSS, which has several people, we're ordering these 250 people. And that's actually the point of this law. On the other hand, I don't think we should be doing this, but we need to concentrate on how gentlemen come out to express myself in this situation, from this swamp that we've come into. I've been saying for years that bottoms, for years I've been talking about the Wazm this year. Easter. The government's laughing at me. A lot of people are laughing at me. And here are three articles that I was able to read today in Free Dalmatia one of our leading businessmen says, "We will lose another 60 thousand jobs by the middle of the year." It's easy for him to say that, but then he says, "Former Finance Minister Mr. Prka in the morning of 2011, we'll spend the whole year at the bottom. The exit is far away. The recovery of the economy in 2011 will be too slow to allow for new jobs" etc. I'm not talking about the fact that over 65,000 workers are working, that they're not getting paid. Now not to pay contributions, but to 60,000 people will not be paid and salaries, and about the fear of the arrival of the IMF, I said something yesterday. That's why, on the one hand, I absolutely need to support the government when it reduces certain institutions, but we've never had such an example before. On the one hand, in the real sector, tens of thousands of jobs are lost, in the public sector we all remain numbered, and we do too often ourselves. But what might be worse than that is if we create hybrids like this under this law. If we already have that one Chamber of Commerce here, I'll say two initiatives let the gentlemen who are there fight. There is little to it, probably many in Croatia are not interested. But we certainly are in Istria. You can't slaughter a calf at home anymore. If you slaughter him in Buzet you must do it in one Bujama or I don't know Pazina. Of course, it seems strange to many, then, because such a case has probably never been placed in Slavonia, but in Istria it is because of the abuse of sanctions. Now we're all starting to report it we say the lamps, these brandy boilers like during Mussolini, for those 100 kuna ok. Of course I will. Which costs me. I already have. But I don't think that it's just not working, that we shouldn't touch that tradition of ours. Because when someone touches tradition like he's touching his soul, I'd say the nations. And you should normally let people work. I know there's no money. I know that in the budget, it will eventually be even less, but it should simply have a measure in everything. I'm reading, so I'm going to say something on the trail of my predecessor when he came out of the topic a little bit, reading about the agricultural chamber to alienate one billion kuna from the Croatian forests annually. Gentlemen, the Secretary of State means your portfolio. How can a billion kuna be alienated without anyone taking any action? If that's the case, then somebody should really take care of it. In 5 years it's 5 billion kuna, it's 100 kilometers of highway. I think for 5 billion kunas, Croatia can just run in some way. How is it stolen? Probably in different ways. From the detachment of the building and beyond. We've sold all the Picks, we've destitute the village, we've certainly stimulated imports even though it's fair to say that only out of wheat and I don't know a few tons of corn with 2 or 3 acres simply can't live. And those who think that through such a form will survive in due course, you are greatly mistaken. We sold the tourist homes to strangers over or over those pifs. That's how we sold the market. We imported or brought large trade chains, so we sold the market. And now you're asking yourself a question, what do you do when it comes to agriculture? For the start of all that food produced in the Republic of Croatia should be treated not with 23% of VAT but with some kind of inter-step. Here's recently to 150 euros in food in Italy, 5 years so to say I didn't buy anything there, return it to the ID or that VAT of 6 or 7 euros. It's just that a man can't believe it. How's only six or seven euros? Because this VAT is on food in Italy and so is either approximately Austria or Germany or that food is loaded with 5.6 maximum 7% or 8%. In Croatia VAT is on food 23%. And what happens to us now after a long time? We also have this cash outflow at a grocery store across the border. People should not be called out because in this oddity they normally manage in all possible ways, but this may be an example of how to help this agricultural industry in the Republic of Croatia. So all that food that's being imported from abroad, no matter what that... someone in Brussels should continue to be paid 23% of VAT, but the food produced in the Republic of Croatia should be burdened with a lower VAT rate. [[You don't understand.]] So that's the basic reason why food out there is far cheaper at this point. Mr. Buric was talking about loans. It's clear, let's try to help these very affected peasants, to extend these obligations in agreement with business banks, to pay interest, interest should be paid clearly, but let's make this capital available as soon as possible. However, when we talk about agriculture clearly that we are not talking, although it is dominant there, present in Slavonia, Podravina, Međimurje, etc., we are talking about all Croatian regions as well as Istria. Perhaps the happiness of Istria is a great happiness, that agriculture is not professionally more than 4% of the population, we are normally supplemental after hours, but only 4% of it deals with, remains employed in other activities, from industry further. But it should also be said that in the last 20 years for agriculture from the state budget through incentives went at least 40 billion kunas, as well as 40 billion kunas went for, and perhaps more, for Croatian shipbuilding with the question of what will remain of Croatian shipbuilding other than Uljanika. But everything needs to be done to keep every shipyard as much as possible with these measures that will be taken today by the City Council of the City of Rijeka and I personally join myself, but unlike the 40 billion that have been sucked into agriculture, many of which will remain more. For the advisory service, it is understandable that the IDS Club, for the IDS Club's agricultural chamber, was the same, we were when the Agricultural Chamber Act was passed. But I think one such hybrid as the ministry is proposing, and all to take control of the HSS absolutely and of the advisory service is simply not promising.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60503	Thank you. We're moving on to Mr. Vlatko Podnar, correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60504	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Caine, you said one thing I must say is nebuloss, that one billion kuna is drawn from the Croatian forests annually. The annual income of the Croatian forests is around 2 billion kuna, of which about 400 million kuna is income from parafiscal load, i.e. general forest functions. So if you'd said 100 million kuna, you wouldn't have reacted yet. And secondly, forestry is not under the Ministry of Agriculture but is under the Ministry of Regional Development and Water Economy. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60505	We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's not here either. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's not here either. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60506	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we have today another one in a series of laws that will be amended through the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of Croatia and this is as one of the measures of public administration reform. An analysis of the purpose of the existing structure of agencies, institutions and other regulatory bodies is foreseen. The government has concluded on the implementation of activities related to state administration reform and has established appropriate guidelines. In accordance with that conclusion, in cooperation with all the central authorities of the State administration, the Ministry of Administration carried out an analysis of the rationality of the structure and the part-time agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority, taking into account the legal property of the European Union and the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia in the process of joining the European Union. The proposal for a reorganisation of agencies, institutes, funds and other legal entities with public authority shall be based on that conclusion, which sets out the need to identify and examine the purpose of part-round work and the obligation to propose a rational organisation by joining, joining or taking over their operations in the central authorities of the state administration. So it's about the attachment, not the suspension. The Croatian Institute for the Agricultural Advisory Service was established by the Regulation on the Croatian Institute for the Agricultural Advisory Service '97. the year in order to carry out the tasks of providing professional support for the development of agricultural production in the family farms. The Law on Marine Fisheries and the Structural Support Act and the regulation of the fisheries market have been laid down by the Croatian Institute for the Agricultural Advisory Service as an institution carrying out advisory activities in fisheries as a public service. In its argument of establishment, the Institute called for Council Regulation 79/65 on the system of agricultural accounting data, but that Regulation does not provide for an obligation to establish an independent legal person, but provides for appropriate agencies to carry out the tasks prescribed by that Regulation. The Croatian Institute for the Agricultural Advisory Service in the performance of its work in the field is responsible for the implementation of the rules on the legal property of the EU in Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development. This law proposes the accession of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory to the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture. The Croatian Agricultural Chamber will take over the jobs, employees, equipment, rights and obligations of the Croatian Institute for the Agricultural Advisory Service and the financial resources needed to carry out the tasks undertaken. The merger of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory Service with the Croatian Agricultural Chamber will save around 20% of the budget in the process of synchronising salaries with public service salaries and other material costs. Well, if there's only one example. So far, we've already processed a lot of these agencies and passed the laws. For example, the advisory service has 250 employees. I really know a lot of counselors. I think quality people who have done very well in the field are farmers, or people to improve agricultural production, both in agriculture and livestock. But here, if those savings were 20%, we could be satisfied, and finally the expenditures, for example, the advisory services were somewhere around a million kunas for phones alone. Well, of course we'll support this merger. The Chamber is an independent, independent, professional and business organisation established to promote the protection and representation of the interests of members of the Chamber, education and counselling of members of the Chamber, to support members in order to improve agricultural production and rural space, to promote the value and importance of preserving and improving agriculture and rural space in the overall socio-economic development of the country. The headquarters of the Chamber will be in Zagreb. This roofing association of agricultural producers, which should primarily help their members, legal and natural persons enrolled in the register of agricultural holdings, with over 200000 of them, to obtain funds from the European Union funds and also in the placement of products on the market, and to fight for better position and placement of the same products, as well as for agriculture in the entire Croatian economy. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture will carry out, except for the activities so far prescribed and the agricultural advisory activity as a public service financed from the state budget. The agricultural and advisory activities of the chambers will provide farmers and fishermen as prescribed by the law above and within its professional service. The provision of a agricultural and advisory service within the agricultural chambers is a practice of many European countries, so here I think it is good to give our Chamber of Agriculture a chance to really be at the service of family peasant economies and Croatian agriculture and farmers. For example, examples from Austria and France in which chambers took over the advisory role in agriculture talk about a positive and effective way of transferring state administration affairs directly to the Chamber. Such a way of organising advisory activities best enable the development of services in accordance with the needs of those to whom it is intended. This will make education better and more direct for users, especially now that we are on the verge of joining the European Union, which brings new challenges and coordination to farmers if they want to survive on the demanding market of the European Union. In addition, the transfer of tasks from the authority of the state administration is in light of the development of partnership with the state administration, which is also one of the priorities set out in the Government's Economic Recovery Programme. This bill also proposes to abolish membership fees for members of the Chamber. A chamber contribution is introduced which is mandatory to pay members of the Chamber, direct payments in agriculture in accordance with the Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development. The adoption of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber was only one of the preconditions for the establishment and establishment of the Chamber. However, in order to be able to work independently and to carry out its prescribed tasks, some other significant financial resources are also needed. Here, this is the first time we've had an agricultural chamber. It was established and in conversation with the staff and colleagues of the Advisory Service, there is no discomfort and anxiety about it, because they will simply continue to carry out their work that they have done so far. However, it will in some ways be more accessible to farmers. Finally, as we like to say, the profession will say what is needed, and that means the needs of peasants, peasant economies and family farms will best be able to solve those for whom they are intended.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60507	We have one replica: Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60508	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrades of the twilight, you have said that you support the attachment of the Chamber and that it will contribute to the effective activity of agriculture certainly. I agree with that, but this is also an opportunity to point out some of the problems we have in agriculture, especially in the incentive and subsidy system. Problems in Croatia's agricultural activity are also complex on a number of levels. But it worries that for years there has been no effective analysis of the situation and an assessment of the effectiveness of the incentives and subsidies measures. Croatian agriculture has huge potential. It can feed all Croatians in Croatia, but it does not. The share in GDP is extremely negligible compared to potential. With tourism, it is the biggest potential of the Croatian economy. But let's just think of examples of how tractors were purchased from incentives. When the state gave a boost to 40% of the value of the tractor's purchase price, then everyone slowed down to buy tractors. The price of purchases was up 20% to 30%, and when the stimulating stimulation of tractors was lost, the price fell 35% even on the market. We have a million hectares in our land register, we have 780000 hectares of processed and millions and 300,000 hectares of statistical agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. And the tractor, and we have a tractor that can sample 4 million acres. And the efficiency of incentives for these tractors would be if we and our tractors were to plow the entire Hungarian agricultural area along with Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60509	Thank you. Mrs. Sumrak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60510	Thank you, fellow Maric. You've noticed that well. I think this establishment of the Chamber is going to help solve this problem right now. I personally agree with you that, indeed, in many cases both state and local subsidies, support was used without purpose. So, what wasn't supposed to be bought wasn't invested. However, I am always inclined to point out what is good. I hope that, I hope not, but I am sure that through this Chamber of Agriculture it will end, especially now that it is entering the European Union, especially now that there are no more direct incentives in some productions. Well, here it is, let's just say, I'd like to stress that because, with the operational development program of agriculture, it means the last five years, I've been raised by 200 new dairy farms. These are large cattle farms, which are over 20 and 30 milk throats, we have recently looked at in Slavonia, there is a farm that is most modern, which is therefore made by means of European Union funds, there are 700 musk Holstein cows, which give a really maximum production, because people keep them in those conditions that are so prescribed and there are 340 museums, those who understand it will know what I'm talking about, and such a man needs a tractor, because he also needs a number of hectares to make food for himself, to make it simpler. So we can also say that some 750 stops have been restored, which means that we've been taking care of a small village economy so that it doesn't fail. These are stops for up to 10 cows, those who will offer their products in the markets. There's the beekeepers, too. I must say, the beekeepers have adapted among the first to join the European Union, issued a beekeeping practice, and they are in their programmes more in state incentives slowly moving in reality to EU projects and reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60511	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60512	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So we see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for the purpose of implementing the economic recovery programme to a whole set of laws that we discussed this week and last week, has abolished a number of institutions, agencies, with a goal that has actually existed so far, and it seems to me that most of these agencies and institutes have never really had to be founded, but they are ultimately only used to love, I would say HDZ personnel. In this reform there is also a whole series of illogicalities, which shows the amendments to the Agricultural Chamber Act that we are discussing here in the Parliament today. There is no reasonable excuse for such an important service, an institution, which is the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory, to be attached to one means to the professional association, and that is to Croatia, meaning, to the agricultural chamber, which is primarily organised, an institution whose primary goal is to protect and represent the members of the chamber. Furthermore, from the very assessment of the situation provided by the applicant, it is visible that the important role played by the Croatian Advisory Service, which is seen by the 1997 regulation and for the primary purpose of performing the jobs, which means to provide professional support for the development of agricultural production in agricultural, family agricultural holdings. Also, the Agriculture Act, this is said here on the assessment of the situation, is prescribed that the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory as a public institution performs agricultural advisory activities as a public service. Next, the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development of the Croatian Institute for Agriculture is responsible for the system of consulting farmers on multiple compliance in order to exercise the right to direct payments in agriculture. Then we have here the fourth law, the Law on Marine Fisheries and the Act on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market, which set out that the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory Service, as an institution carrying out advisory activities in fisheries as a public service. From the very assessment of the situation given by the applicant it is evident that there is really no reasonable reason for me to think that one means such an important service belongs to an association, or chamber that is actually an interesting organization and, above all, because the Croatian agricultural chamber was founded in 2009, and we can conclude that it is not yet right or set up. There is no valid reason for that to happen, for the Croatian Agriculture Service was supposed to act like I was boredom, because its role is extremely important for Croatian agriculture. It means a specialised institution that primarily helps agricultural economies to make a decision on professional information, encourages the cooperation of the OPG with institutions, intervenes in implementing measures and others. In short, the agricultural advisory service is largely focused on serving the family farms that need this information. We also see that the agricultural chamber was founded in 2009 and is not yet set up as a service. How to justify, at all, giving public authority to the agricultural chamber, which it will receive if this advisory service is attached. There's no reasonable excuse for that. The agricultural chamber, obviously in need of funding, is clearly suitable here, and will receive these funds from the state budget, as it will exercise public authority through the advisory service and receive funding from the state budget. The proposer cites examples from Europe, takes the meaning of examples from Austria and Germany, and thus justifies the actual accession of this institution to the agricultural chamber, but it is known that these European countries have a far longer tradition of chamber association than the Republic of Croatia, which means in 2009, it has just passed the Agricultural Chamber Act. Furthermore, the question arises whether all 250 agricultural advisory staff will be detained. I already said it meant the service that was founded in '97. the years, that she employs professional, primarily professional people, people who mean above all are services to family farms, but I am concerned that in Article 7(5) of this proposal, the Law amending the Chamber Act, is spoken of, and this is otherwise not a guide when abolishing and attaching other institutions and funds. Thus, paragraph 5 states that after the adoption of the acts referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and the entry into force of the Croatian Institute of Agricultural Advisory in the Court Register, under this law, the chambers will offer to officials and tenants found in the conduct of the work undertaken by this law the conclusion of a labour contract, and to those who cannot be offered the conclusion of a labour contract, because they cannot be deployed, the working relationship will be cancelled in accordance with the Labour Act. I am now asking the question here whether it is actually, not to ask the question, but I can only conclude that these amendments of the law are given the possibility, and that it is likely to count on a part of the employees and tenants who worked in the Croatian agricultural service probably to be out of a job. So is it okay now that, that means that the Agricultural Chamber which was founded in 2009 which has not yet formed and which has its own, we see here in amendments to the laws of the president, that this head decides on fate means those 250 people who will be taken over, or attached to that Croatian agricultural chamber, people who have been doing their job for years. I think that this solution is not good and that, in any case, this paragraph, that is, Article 7(5), should in some way be changed, i.e. in the sense that those people who work so far in the advisory service still remain in their jobs. Furthermore, I would just like to say that the topic is, so we can extend the topic to agriculture in general. So when we talk about agriculture today, we can't help but remember the situation in agriculture, or the protests that farmers had this year, and because of the price of wheat, and because of the failure to pay the incentives, and because of the failure of capital investments and everything else. And I have to say that the government and the Ministry of Agriculture have no vision to direct Croatian agriculture through, and the objectives that existed in the development of certain productions, for example. The cattle and pigmeats, they suffered a loss, and many of the producers who borrowed credit came to the beggar stick, and their banks sat down on their property. The Encouragement Act was passed, meaning 2011 support will lead to stagnation of some productions. First of all, cattle, and some as pigs to ruin. .../The speakers speak in voice, the noise in the hall./... A little quiet, please. Mr. President, will you? If you're not interested, you can get out. Thus, it is clear that it is necessary to set urgently the goals of Croatian agriculture to maintain the stability of farmers' incomes and to encourage farmers to produce and some other products, not just those of traditional grains and industrial plants. Above all, through rural development measures to promote environmental protection and strengthen the fight against climate change and maintain employment in these areas. These are also the objectives of European agriculture because the economic crisis justifies the need for a fair but strong European policy that will allow for helping farmers. And I'd like to say one more thing since the ministry's representatives are sitting here. I would actually like to point out the problems I've learned from the Association of Agricultural Producers of Virovitica-Podravna County from which I come. So it's about the next one. Unfortunately, in 2011, it is known that the right to encourage will only be realised by farmers who have agricultural land or in lease or have bought it. What is a big problem in Slavonia, as well as in my county, is about 100,000 hectares of land means throughout Slavonia, it is about that local units, meaning municipalities and cities, did not call public tenders but were giving farmers land through confirmation of one year's lease. The problem is that, and now the next situation is happening. The ministry accuses local units of giving land through some relatives or not knowing what kind of connections, and yet local self-government, or cities and municipalities say that the ministry was too inert that it did not give sufficient quick consent, so the whole tender procedure took six months, and it was precisely for these reasons that the certificates worth a year were given. Now I wonder if you in the ministry even know about this problem? What do you think and what do you intend to do? So it's 100,000 acres of agricultural land. And the question is actually peasants who now wanted to sow wheat whether to sow it at all because they're sure they won't get this incentive next year. I think it's a big problem and it's very difficult to solve because we came I would say in time since the whole procedure if we wanted to conduct the competition took six months. We're at the end of the 10th month now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60513	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60514	Just a little bit more to finish. It seems to me that for those 100,000 acres of land, we'll be left unprocessed, and then local units will have to pay land compensation that hasn't been processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60515	Thank you. You've extended your hearing a little bit. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60516	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Cavlović Smiljanec said that agencies and seductions serve to impair HDZ personnel. I would like to say that this allegation is incorrect because most agencies and institutions were founded at the time of the coalition government. I haven't been doing an investigation that personnel whose and where they are, but I also want to say with all due respect that high-quality people work in the advisory service, and that they have done a lot of good for our agriculture that here goes, as counterpart Sumrak said, so she wants to be competitive and to get close. In addition, you say that incentives as such will destroy or fail. We have harmonised our legislation with the EU and we do not have much to talk about there. But exceptional developments have been made in agriculture, and in addition to that, it has been said since 2003. 170 million gallons of milk increased production, modern stables were built, upgraded others. So, within the framework of the operational programmes of bovine animals, pig farming has been made significant shifts and I think it says enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60517	Thank you. We have another correction, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60518	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I will correct the incorrect allegations by my colleague Cavlovic, where she claimed that the country was given over the link in Virovitica-Podravska County, so the municipalities do not conduct the competition. That's not true. Competitions have been held for all land, given that the State's Attorney's Office has objections, so it is impossible to carry out new tenders in order to get land in good time and it is necessary to act at times in order to bring the land into practice in order to enter into contracts for the one-year use of land until the competition is carried out. That's true and that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60519	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Ms. Nevenka Marinović's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60520	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here I will begin this debate with a fact like this when my colleague Cavlović read Article 5 of Article 7 of this proposal, and she did not read Article 6 and 7 so here is that these valuable people we praised from the advisory service are familiar with the right state, i.e. with the provisions of this legislation that are in the debate today. So, Article 7, which the colleague has not read, reads: "Until the conclusion of new work contracts, or cancellation of work contracts, officials and subsistence staff will continue to carry out the tasks identified by previous labour contracts and other tasks under the orders of the president. Article 7 also states that new employment contracts or cancellation of work contracts are to be taken over by officials, that the subcontractors retain the right to pay and other labour rights and obligations and responsibilities under current labour contracts. Here's to know what the rights of these valuable agricultural advisors we've heard of are 220 in the Republic of Croatia. Here is why I will continue my debate in a way that I will familiarise myself with the activities of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory and Chambers and bring these two together and unite this proposal that is ahead of us. Therefore, the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service or the Institute was established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation in 1997 to carry out the tasks of providing professional support for the development of agricultural production in family farms. The rules of law also define that it is a public institution that carries out its agricultural and advisory activity as a public service, that it is in charge of a system of consulting farmers on multiple compliance in order to achieve direct payments in agriculture, but that it is an institution that carries out advisory activities in fisheries also as a public service. And the chamber was founded as an independent and independent, professional and business organisation that promotes among other things, means protecting and representing the interests of its members. And the members are going to remind legal and physical persons enrolled in the register of agricultural holdings. The activity of the chamber includes, in addition to the above, monitoring the situation in agriculture and rural areas, but also proposing solutions to improve agricultural and rural areas. It also provides initiatives and reviews to provide expert opinions in the adoption of documents and regulations in the field of agriculture, food and rural development, and one of its roles is to cooperate with educational, scientific, professional research institutions on the development of agriculture and marketing in agriculture, food safety, human and animal health, environmental protection, the preservation of cultural heritage and the preservation of the entire rural area. And I will remind the rural area of over 90% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Here in this particular classmates and colleagues I see the role of experts means these 250 that agricultural technicians, agronomists, doctors of science who should contribute to the economics of agriculture become economically healthy, perspective but also human interest. So, the central activity of these rural areas as well as our islands. Here is that, with its advice and knowledge, it initiates and creates development documents that will make agriculture more and more necessary for itself to bind as many of the activities that live and live from it as possible. The role should also be to help farmers and their families already source many other activities in the rural area. This team of people of these 250 people from the advisory service, these are people who know this rural space well, these are people who have lived with that space for years and people in that space. And they should offer solutions to make agriculture a source of production and service and crafts and tourism, as well as intellectual services in this area. And here I will still agree with my colleague Maric that the potential of agriculture is extremely large so the potential of tourism is also great. But you can think of fellow Maric as it would only be for us to take these quality agricultural products out through tourism. So two of these branches if we were to have more tourism pro-pulsing and if we did everything we needed to do, what would only then be the effects of both incentives and total investment in tourism. Here, regardless of my personal dilemmas when I saw this proposal or doubt whether one interested chamber association and public service should be joined, I believe this proposal could contribute to the start of strengthening the chamber system in the Republic of Croatia. We have heard that these models function successfully in some EU countries, and when we think about strengthening our focus on this professional potential that has these 220 agricultural advisers covering as many as 192 thousand registered agricultural holdings and 90 thousand of which receive incentives. The EU standard will only mention that one consultant is 250 farmers. Here I believe that this potential of top experts will be well valorized. And this confirms and here's the initial investment by the ministry, I know that a large number of consultants are licensed to advise farmers, not only how to make a business plan, not only how to produce, but how to produce and sell. Because EU funds require a pre-secured market. Then how to secure high ecological standards that are here and through these pre-accession funds has proved to be still a major problem. I will also note that, with the help of these experts and advisory and agricultural services, Zadar County has withdrawn from the SHAPARD programme through 4 projects 30.7 million kuna and 26.3% of the total funds withdrawn from this programme. However, there is much left to withdraw from European funds and here I see a huge role but here is the potential of this team of advisory agricultural advisers. And I will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60521	Thank you. We have a replica of Mrs. Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60522	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Marinović, in order to have the opportunity to replicate my answer, I gave the replica, I did not go to correct the incorrect quote though I could. I've read this article very well in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 but I need to be clear. What's the point? When an individual public authority is abolished or an institution is abolished in a specific case, it is normal under all the laws of the Labour Act and the Civil Service Act that all employees found at work are taken over. However, after this comes the systematicisation of new jobs and the schedule of workers in the workplaces that are defined by this Regulation and this systematization. Which means that it is not a guarantee as you think it is, because you have misread this article, that all those employees who will be and take over and be deployed to the right jobs that will happen, you see I have just said, it is actually an item of the 5th of this law that says that those workers who can't be deployed to the right jobs that will cancel their work contract. That's the point. There's no guarantee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60523	Thank you. The answer to Mrs. Nevenka Marinović's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60524	Here is my colleague Cavlović, I have not interpreted item 6 or item 7 of this proposal. I didn't interpret it, I quoted it as you quoted Article 5. It is equally important as a whole, you have to look at both item 5 and item 6 and paragraph 7. I didn't interpret anything, I was just quoting them to be properly, or properly informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60525	Thank you. And a replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60526	Thank you very much. My colleague Marinović, I agree on the huge potential of agricultural activity in Croatia and that this Agricultural Chamber will contribute to the effectiveness of the overall activity. But in order for that potential to be effective and to show all its possibilities, it is necessary to address the perceived shortcomings and I think that the role of the Agricultural Chamber is also very important. For example, it is noticeable that out of the total number of economies, as many as 60% of them own less than 3 hectares. It's a worrying piece of information. With such, we cannot develop agricultural activity. For example, vegetables occupy only 5% of the total agricultural area and fruit production only 2% of the total agricultural area. If incentives in fruit and vegetables were given as they are given in tobacco production, then the effect would be significantly, significantly higher. Now the total amount of subsidies is 50% of the total value added. With this information, we can't possibly be satisfied. And the role of the chamber could be, for example, no one does an analysis of soils and climate conditions for olive growing subsidies so we had cases of getting incentives to plant olives where they couldn't succeed. Well, there is now a task of these very chambers to do such analysis and to see if climate conditions and soil are suitable for growing olives, and to grow more fruits and vegetables, not to import it, but to feed our citizens' products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60527	Thank you. Mrs. Marinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60528	Here I agree, colleague Maric. I don't think even the amount of production is so important, that we have great comparative advantages for the cultivation of certain agricultural cultures and that we can be competitive there. So not in everything but in those, and inciting exactly those cultures that are competitive. It's also the goal of government programs and it's going that way. I also agree with you that we are all impatient and that we should point to these gaps as high and high as possible, but with quality suggestions as best as we can suggest that problems will be solved faster. I agree with you, as far as fruit and vegetable production is concerned, it is indeed smaller in the production structure, but it is not a questionable quantity. We sometimes have in fruit and vegetables excess products that should regulate imports and exports in this area it certainly agrees with you. As for the expert analyses of these, it certainly is irrelevant, it is the basis for any raising of any plantations and there they are made we must acknowledge certain failures. So without a quality professional background, many agricultural productions were encouraged, which is not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60529	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60530	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Ladies and gentlemen, i.e. colleagues and colleagues. Here I will support the adoption of this Law amending the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. The Croatian Institute for Agriculture and Consultative Service was established to carry out professional support activities, to develop agricultural production in family farms. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture will carry out, except for the activities so far prescribed and the agricultural and advisory activities as a public service financed by the state budget. So, the carrying out of agricultural and advisory activities within the agricultural chambers is not a Croatian invention, such a practice exists in our neighbouring Austria, France, so on in some other European Union countries. The main reason for the adoption of this law is the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as one of the measures of public administration reform. Thus, by adopting this law, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber will take over about 250 employees of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural and Advisory Service, their equipment, space, financial resources to carry out the work undertaken, which will contribute to a more rational organisation of jobs and tasks, and thus reduce costs. So, this bill proposes to abolish membership fees for chamber members and introduces a chamber contribution which is mandatory to pay members of the chamber, direct payments in agriculture, in accordance with the Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development. The Chamber of Agriculture was established to promote the protection and representation of the interests of chamber members, education, consultation and support to members for the purpose of improving agricultural production and rural space. It thus contributes to the promotion of values and to the preservation and promotion of agriculture and rural space. By attaching chambers, it receives a profession that is the strongest in the advisory service, and the advisory service receives all the powers that belong to the Agricultural Chamber. It is the education that is most important in terms of the competitiveness of agricultural producers, and especially in terms of obtaining funds from European funds, and these agricultural advisers play a decisive role. A good example of this was the statement by Mr Martin, a representative of the French agricultural chamber at the European Union, who said on a recent visit to the Croatian Agricultural Chamber of Brussels: "The challenge for organisations such as agricultural chambers is to help their members understand the functioning of European institutions and the means of funding available to them." In order to help the Croatian village, we will have to increase the number of people. So there will be no reduction in the budget with the advisory service or chamber. In addition, there is information on the standard in the European Union where one agricultural adviser who plays a key role in raising agricultural production covers 250 farmers. In addition, territorial coverage of an area is important because the counselor must first of all work in the field. The Croatian Institute for Agriculture and Consultative Service today has 220 agricultural advisers covering 192 thousand agricultural holdings. One adviser covers about 800 agricultural holdings, which is three and a half times below the European Union average. I repeat once again, I support the adoption of amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60531	Thank you. We have a replica of Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60532	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Box, you spoke nicely of the Chamber of Agriculture, which is its purpose. So, in any case, improving agricultural production and education. In that part, surely an important place will be held by agricultural advisory experts who are of course very important for the use of pre-accession funds. But it is certainly necessary to say once again in this place that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in the framework of operational programmes in agriculture, operational programmes in bovine animals, in pigs, in low land, etc. She's made remarkable moves. In this regard, I also spoke of increasing dairy production, pigmeat, etc. And then what do you know more about because it's about areas. Well, I'm sure there's a lot of work to do, and I don't think the Agricultural Chamber would work in favour of the damage to the village and agriculture. So in that part, I hold that this job and this step will improve agricultural production, which is what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60533	Mr. Box's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60534	I thank my colleague Milinkovic. You mentioned operational programmes and what are the results of these operational programmes, and specifically I will say something about the rise of multi-annual plantations in our county. So, what through the encouragement through the Ministry of Agriculture that our farmers got, through units of local self-government or county, specifically our Zadar County. We built a large number of olive groves and vineyards. This is how we created the meaning of the precondition for opening new jobs through the opening of new oil mills, new wineries. Here in the Benkovec area we only this year have received new four wines with a category of top quality wine and that means the result of these efforts by the Government to get a final product that will have its quality and its price on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60535	Thank you. Replica Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60536	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I first understand the role of the agricultural community, the cooperative to analyse the situation, to propose measures, to see how each branch of agricultural activity will be more effective, to propose what needs to be changed and how to perfect it. What is ultimately the effectiveness of, for example, the promotion of imports? What does this give the Croatian economy? What do we get to encourage imports, for example, of pigs and cattle? What are the results – positive, negative? What's the overall effect of that? What is the effect that six and a half kuna, or 0.8 euros, are encouraged by tobacco production? Is that what manufacturers, copycats or tobacco factories benefit from? As much as the state subsidises the cooperatives, the price of purchasing tobacco and increasing its profits is so high. I think we need to analyse, for example, the consumption of blue gasoline because the state with three kunas is subsidized by blue gasoline, and it's visible from the data that three times the consumption of blue gasoline has increased, and we've reduced the area of arable soil. That's something to analyze and point to. At 73 million, we came at 200 million gallons of fuel consumption. What is the result, for example, of never repeating history that milk production has been subsidized in a way that produces for each litre of milk gets one kuna. Co-operatives and producers then received nothing, and the producer received a subsidy to imports of the powder from which it produced milk. This does not contribute to the overall effectiveness of agricultural activity in the Republic of Croatia. That's why I think the task is to improve first and I think that this agricultural cooperative will work in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60537	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Box. Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Marić, you mentioned the promotion of imports related to pigs, i.e. in general cattle, and then tobacco products and blue gasoline. I agree that it would be necessary to reconsider what you've mentioned, because it really doesn't make sense to encourage tobacco production with so much on the one hand, and on the other hand, I don't know we have a huge potential to produce a large number of vegetable cultures, and where and where they stimulate with smaller amounts. And that is how potential agricultural producers are dragged away to express themselves from investing in that vegetable culture. So there's definitely room for all of this to be reviewed together and to get it all better together, and that way we're going to create assumptions for agricultural production that you've alluded to, that we have as many jobs as possible and that we have as much domestic and quality domestic production as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60539	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60540	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. So Croatia's agricultural chamber and its establishment last year when we tried to reach an optimal organization of Croatian peasants, farmers through two readings. Here we have a change, a change that does not go according to what I would expect, which is why this institution is set up to aim at bringing together producers with the help of experts in the field of agriculture to the maximum use of natural resources. So this country of ours, which is god-given for agricultural production, that allows us to become, which is basically I believe the goal of all independents of importing basic agricultural products. Why do I say with the help of agricultural experts? Because these agricultural experts are not only in Croatia to the advisory service that we now attach, and we are now making it possible for agriculture to start us now because we are Croatia's agricultural advisory service we will attach to the Croatian agricultural chamber. Because in order for this agriculture to get better, there should also be a greater impact on the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and the village we had recently spoken about. There should also be a greater impact of all institutions, universities, agricultural agronomic colleges, agricultural agronomic institutes, veterinary institutes, etc., because what Mr. Marić was saying there is a soil office which is within the Croatian, now a agriculture centre located in Osijek and which is doing an analysis of the soil and recommending farmers what on certain soil to sow, i.e. what many years of plantings to plant. Therefore, the solution is not only to attach this one service, and especially to one institution that has since last year, which has not been formally established, except for the president, the secretary, I don't know what else they have, they don't even have in the field certain branches, and it is now their task to attach to such one service a agricultural advisory service which has already had a long tradition, which today has 262 experts, man, people who have started in agriculture, who have worked for years in agriculture, cattle farming, which have gained this experience, and who, on the basis of legal powers, have a certain public authority through the Ministry of Agriculture and indeed have a great impact on how and how to realise a better increase in production in Croatia. Normally, what Mrs. Djurdzica Sumrak said was that, not to say the enthusiasm amongst what it's called the advisers who are doing, which will enter the Agricultural Chamber, I don't know who she talked to and who that enthusiasm shows, because we with all of us who have talked, who we are talking to, and the right to tell you in Slavonia and Baranja has the most quiet, everyone is very concerned about this situation and all of us are suggesting that in our presentations we are just suggesting that this agricultural advisory service is already in '92. She started the establishment, her establishment, and that was right in Osijek. Thus, together with the IPC Agricultural Institute, the first conceptions of the service were then created, and in '97. has become the same as the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service. She's already been stalking, she's got her own mechanisms, and I'm afraid now, because no matter how we interpret this article or that article, but they're all worried because it's going to be the leadership of the Agricultural Chamber that's going to extend or end certain contracts, work contracts that these people have, and not to talk to themselves, as it is called, people's deployment and everything else that's going on. Therefore, this is why I say that the agricultural chamber as one interested institution has an entirely different part of the work that should be, and not to regulate and determine and have under its authority one service that has public authority and which these powers are for the entire agricultural production in Croatia, regardless of how often they are not just to give advice to these farmers who have OPGs, but also to many other institutions, plus that they organise many educational activities since I don't know here last week was in Djakov's fruit days, fruit days, before that they organize the best furrow etc. There are many broader activities that are often both related to the programme and the possibilities and wishes and work of the Ministry of Agriculture, State Policy, Government and everything else, and now we place one service under the authority not to say one institution of which the same institutions has, as is the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which has its own agricultural service, that is, the cooperative alliance. Therefore, these are all institutions that could also, perhaps even cooperate and work better, but they also work together and work with this advisory service today because it is as such a matter of the ministry. So to give such a service under the authority of the agricultural chamber I don't think it's good, and that this will prove in the future as something that will certainly not give the results as it should. The second thing and the second amendment to this is that the bill proposes that membership fees be abolished for members of the chamber, but a chamber contribution is introduced, which is mandatory for members of the chamber, users of direct payments in agriculture in accordance with the Agriculture and Rural Development Act. The question is, what is it now? Now it's instead of paying membership fees, and it's been tried, membership fees have been paid, but normally it wasn't paid, but people didn't want to pay, we're now introducing that part to be from all those who get direct payments. The question is, who are you and whether and for those who are less than 750 kuna, where there should be no payment, will such support pay for it? Whether they will pay all those who take that percentage of those who are members of that chamber or who are not even members of the chamber, perhaps some will not even join that chamber, hence, it turns out that there should still not be one payment obligation, because a lot of these parafiscals and yesterday it was said about this, 250 parafiscal givings there is, and now we are introducing another instead of reducing it. I think that's why I can't even be kidnapped that the Ministry of Agriculture, which has probably given the green light for it, is that instead of finding out how much these existing associations are burdening agriculture, and the price of products per hectare, or a kilo of live cattle, that instead we should consider how much this burden is, rather than creating a new burden, because the burdens that this farm has. They're too big anyway, and it's going to be harder and harder to realize that production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60541	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60542	A colleague of Bodakoš, as you said, has 260 employees. Now these 260 employees are joining up in Croatia's agricultural chamber, which we can freely say is that an interesting organization has just been established. The advisory service should be available to all and therefore any accession to another institution in this case to the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture raises suspicions that control and the greater influence of one political party would thus conduct certain tasks. I therefore represent the the thesis that the advisory service established since 1992 in Osijek should be independent, under the Ministry's supervision, so that individuals do not influence the jobs of the service and that they do not have the consequences of various agencies established in various ministries and that they have been abolished because of their poor work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60543	Replication response, Mr. Representative Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, Mr. Habek, I think what I've been trying to say is that the meaning of the advisory service is much broader than what will determine management or I don't know how to call those agricultural chambers. I think that this advisory service and those people where there are both certain and doctoral sciences and magistrates and the largest number of engineers, people who are from viticulture, fruit-making over I don't know fishing and down to livestock and agriculture involved in this production, I think these people should not have to say one another, one greater independence and one other employer. And I think that was good when it was now the Ministry of Agriculture. The second thing, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, its task is quite different. She should, and it was when the speech was formed, that she would be the one to unite the associations they have and to create a single agricultural policy and be one negotiator with the government about it. However, all that has been going on these years and the tractor exits on the road and I don't know the Zagreb Agreement, so before that, we have some discussions and arrangements again, the question is whether and how much the Agricultural Chamber needs and can have one possibility of negotiating. I think in this segment her task is much more important than to now take a hat over the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service. Is it that some party will have a greater impact on the village? We will see it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60545	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. So here is another amendment to the law, amendments and additions that could be put under the common denominator of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So these days we have been listening to a series of such proposals that combine one, two, three, five at the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village even some six finally agencies, institutions, etc. in one agency and there is always a debate in the direction that this is for reasons of more efficient business, for reasons of certain savings, etc. Of course, as in all previous cases, it is all an empty word because there is no relevant element. If it's about savings, then there's no numerical data on whether there's going to be any savings, what are they, etc. If there is some professional reason, there is no argument which indicates what is better in a professional way if those institutions join together. Here we have, I would say, one drastic example, and we have already listened there in debates on behalf of clubs when in these discussions I would say other than the ruling HDZ party everyone else and even some coalition partners have declared that this is one bad proposal. But here he goes, and as such he is subject to all possible criticism, so I will, I must say, join in these criticisms. So there's just one story here about attaching one institution to another or what we said to spilling from the hollow to empty with the situation here being somewhat more drastic. There's a full spill in here. So, of course, in all that we have to repeat some of the things my colleagues said about what we attach to, that is, the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory, which is a Agricultural Chamber. If we talk about the Croatian Institute of Agricultural Advisory I would dare say that at the state level it is certainly one of the most professional organisations that provides direct services to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what they do to citizens who primarily live on their work and in this area provide them with services. So, farmers on the ground. There have already been several mentions of these 250 or 260, I have data since the end of 2009, so 250 employees of the Croatian Institute of Agricultural Advisory, of which 200 graduate agronomy engineers are 4 doctors of science, 10-masters of science, etc., where 11 say people, so I repeat at the end of 2009. 11 people were people with higher gear or high school. So, such a high-level potential is attached to this bill and I have to say if what is stated here disappears as an independent institution but simply becomes one segment of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Agricultural Advisory Service is except that it is very teamed very well organized by the regional offices. For this very reason, it also works in the way it works, which is also good quality for citizens, or farmers. It is also, of course, defined and financed from the state budget from its own revenues, donations, etc. Which is probably the position for the reason that they've been in existence since '97. the years they're set up. But it is also very likely because it is such an important service that even the EU imposes conditions on the application of the common agricultural policy, the establishment of one such advisory body that will provide the farmers with the necessary information. On the other hand, we have an institution that I should now say so to accept what we have previously said to the Croatian agricultural chamber. Of course, the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture is a very, very important organization, an interesting organisation, a professional organisation that brings together Croatian farmers who are enrolled in the register, so who are as such to state that this is their only way of working and earning a living, last year formed, and I would say that they are still going through certain birth pains, because there are many problems. The problems arise from the formation itself and I would say banal problems that have shown that some things are not well set up. These problems were problems in the management of the chamber, problems in the financing of the chamber, etc. This proposal shifts to a new form of funding that my predecessors spoke of. Whether this form of funding will be the right one and that is the question, because there are in the ranks of those who are members of the chamber disagreeing on whether this is the right way of financing. What about those other segments of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce? What about some third segments, so what are farmers really going to pay for? Will they pay these chamber fees or contributions in two, three places or only one place? There's a lot, a lot of problems to solve. And now they're getting this kind of system under their wing. Because according to this proposal, the Agricultural Advisory Service belongs to them. We call for experiences from the EU, experiences from Austria, not experiences from France, in how they function. Well, of course, agricultural chambers or better said farmers who are there all in chambers are organised equal partners in negotiations with authorities in the EU. That's normal. We used to have associations doing it one way or another, once in a nice, sometimes by force, sometimes under pressure, sometimes without pressure. If there's a good will, then no pressure. Of course, this is the goal of us, too, that once the Agricultural Chamber will be the one that will, on behalf of farmers, negotiate and negotiate on behalf of its members, therefore not primarily negotiate but negotiate with the ministry and with all those who define certain policy segments. Of course, in that context, the Agricultural Advisory Service is necessary. But at this point unfortunately she's not at that level yet that she can do it. I've had opportunities on several occasions to stay in both Austria and Germany and see how it works there, what the chamber does. As the chamber defines the issue of licensing of farmers, issues of certain courses, seminars, etc. what they'll probably do to us sometime. At this point, I think it's a bad move to slow down some of the processes in Croatia's agriculture, which has failed to define itself, so to speak. For this reason, I cannot accept such a proposal as a good proposal, of course, I believe that, as will a whole series of MPs, I will vote against this proposal. But I ask you to consider in general whether it's enough to say it because of some economic recovery let's connect two into one. It's not always one less than two, at least in situations like this if you're looking at it qualitatively. Quantitatively, they would say that is what mathematicians would say, qualitatively not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60547	Thank you. Five replicas. First Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60548	Mr. Heffer, I think this law should be called a real name. He's got that one quality. What quality? The quality of a political agreement between HDZ and HSS. the agricultural chamber means that this advisory service or chamber where four are employed is subordinated, five HSS employees shall be subject to an advisory service with some 250 employees. It's a political mix that's a hybrid or as our vice president would call it, it's a strange beak. The HSS is Mr. Heffer that one infrastructure that knows the terrain, one advisor covering some 250 family households but what's a fact it's not a perspective law. It is a political law that as such cannot bring any quality. And that law is likely to change rapidly and change rapidly. I repeat, it's a political act. He's not a logical law. Why isn't the logical law? Because that's how she didn't form her own agricultural service or chamber, not one Western European country. They all have a Chamber of Agriculture, okay. We supported it. We need to support that chamber. They all have the advisory service o.k. to support her. But nowhere in one chamber is an incorporated advisory service. We all know that very well. And they know that, or maybe they're better than us gentlemen at HSS. Normally, they need it for certain political interests, but once again it is not a perspective policy. And that's why I agree with you, I don't need to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60549	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60550	Thank you very much, Mr. Cain. You've done a great job of painting the basis of this law. I haven't touched the political issue at all in my debate. I suffer that there is no argument in a professional way for such a law. The fact is that very often and the issue of agriculture is the primary issue in Croatia politics is so involved among these people that even those basic things they fail to agree on. For this reason, they may not be able to agree on any kind of relationship within the chamber. And as far as the strange beak is concerned, since it appears so often with us, it is no wonder that the investigation committee also asked the question of how in some companies this is a question of admission to employment. You can see that it takes to understand some laws like this to understand what it's like to freak out a beak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60551	Thank you. Next replica, Mr. Representative of Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60552	Thank you very much. Well, you're right, pal, so this is another one in a row as I like to call them, fuzzing laws. So we are in a position to trust the Government that this law, along with a number of other laws and those who will come, will save the Croatian economy. However, if we're listening and we've been listening to all these discussions and about this law and those before, I think that's actually going to do some damage. So we're going to have more damage than we're going to do to eliminate one and two leading places, for the simple reason. I don't see the logic that something that's old, which is established, which is professionally, internationally recognised, has results, we're drowning in something that's new, which is not recognised, which is not established. And now, I would even understand the logic of drowning this new and unrecognized, unemboweled into the old one. In fact, that logic is completely, entirely irrational and that is why I do not believe that these laws will help the Croatian economy but will actually be the opposite effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60553	Replication response, Mr. Representative Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60554	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lucin, I pointed that out in the debate, though timidly. I said I was afraid that we would not help Croatian agriculture, but the fact is that the agricultural and advisory services are already operating across the line or working across a series of tasks that are necessary not only for Croatian agriculture but also for Croatian agriculture within European agriculture. Most recently, we know that the ARCOD is conducting the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service and they are doing it well. And all he does right is like a nice young, good bite for someone who's gonna do a little bit worse. But I'm not saying that the agricultural chamber will work badly, no. At this point, it is unable to accept the agricultural and advisory services and to say to use its potential, but I believe that it will hinder what is necessary and that an objective form of assistance for Croatian peasants will turn into something subjective that will definitely not be good for Croatian agriculture. Physicists would say fusion gives some energy. I'm afraid there's no energy here that fusion normally gives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60555	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60556	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Heffer, you said that the reason for connecting the service is primarily the Economic Recovery Programme, that this is indicated as a measure of public administration reform. This unfortunately extends the whole session, and now that you are looking at the issue of attaching and connecting ergels, joining the Ministry of Seeding at the Croatian Centre for Agriculture and the Village, joining the advisory service, all of this as a programme of public administration reform leads to certain earthquakes and people are not very happy with it. Well, I think that primarily and most importantly why they're not happy, and so are the MPs here who are discussing it, that's the question of those savings. We heard again today that there will be 20% savings. No indication in all these attachments we've never received before. And what is important, we should see how real this will be to support or save that, but how can we know that it will be a savings. Only to believe the good word we've heard. But what we should do is see certain results in these savings, and the results will certainly be. If this production is higher then it will be good, if after each of these activities we will have more production then we can say that these savings have been made, but not because of that if one or two management posts are abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60557	Replication response, Mr. Representative Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60558	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bodakoš, yes, I said that this is a merger under the common denominator of something called the Economic Recovery Programme of the Republic of Croatia. We're hearing it backwards. I don't know how many days, so in this session. I'd say the rulings who offer it to us are repeating it a little bit as a mantra. So hoping that sound, language, and I don't know how to actually achieve some kind of benefits or some kind of use through such forms. As for the savings, I have a 20 percent impression that that 20 percent is said like that. I'm sorry for the comparison, but that's what you say from the sleeve, if the sleeve was wider it might be 25%. But what's problematic is the professional element of this kind of association where we definitely have an organization that hasn't been formed and it hasn't rounded up its action properly and now we're adding to them something that's well-seated, well done, it's benefiting that I don't know for what reason they're saying they're saving. Unfortunately, there is no savings here, the only thing worse will be done is very likely, so it'll be some kind of savings, but that savings will go over our farmers' backs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60559	Madam representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60560	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, Comrade Heffer, in your debate, you have expressed a great dissatisfaction with the accession of this formal annexation of the advisory service to the Agricultural Chamber. I am truly with the full heart of your dissatisfaction because the Agricultural Advisory Service is primarily one professional institution with public authority almost twenty-year tradition which had great importance for agricultural producers on the ground precisely because of this professional support. Now this great professional potential belongs to the agricultural chamber, which is a purely interesting association, unfortunately with great political influence. After all, the Agricultural Chamber hasn't actually worked yet. I can only say damage, big damage. I'm afraid the Advisory Service will drown, simply drown in the Chamber, and the agricultural producers on the ground will lose a lot. So it can be said that this is no anti-recession measure. This isn't even a rationalization measure. This is just another measure of centralisation, this time to the great damage of agricultural producers, and I'm afraid that through the negative selection in the Chamber, we are going to lose one of the most professional people in the agricultural profession because of this political influence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60561	Replication response, Mr. Representative Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60562	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jelash, I'm going to repeat that I don't know which time. I believe, I'm afraid this association will damage Croatian agriculture. I'll say here's for information. In 2009, these 220 agricultural advisers scattered in each county, which were distributed to Croatian farmers on a daily basis, held 1607 professional lectures involving more than 46,000 farmers. About 650 events were organized, etc. Which is why, for which reasons it saves, what kind of rationalization, which was here was irrational, is now going to be rationalized or rationalized, such an institution belongs to something that was formed last year and even in those essential things of structure, through funding, through management, etc. etc. Which is why an institution like this joins, drowns in this other institution because the name disappears. It is now called only the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. For what? Which is why the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture is not given space, time and opportunity to develop, to strengthen, to assume its function, and then to perform an advisory function. So give the Chamber a chance to develop, and then there's time for this merger. Let's not just get into some kind of mergers and talk about savings that apparently don't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60563	And Madam Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60564	Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry. Well fellow Heffer you said well, attaching means Croatian advisory services to the Agricultural Chamber means in some way a full-to-empty transfer, and unfortunately that is so. It is also a matter of what I would particularly point out is that, meaning one service that has a long tradition is Fusiond with the Chamber which is not yet territorially established, and also as you specifically pointed out in your debate and what I find particularly problematic is the fact that two of those 250 people working in the Croatian Advisory Service are the most highly educated and they will in some way, when they are now connected with the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, depending on whether the head of the Croatian agricultural chamber will in some way decide on their fate. Or his powers will be such that he will be able to decide who of these people will remain in the ministry and who not, because that is exactly what I was saying in my debate. So, the proposal for this law indicates that some of the people who will be taken over from the Croatian Advisory Service will in some ways not be deployed, that they will likely be given cancellations. I would also like to say that the trade unions of Croatian farmers are against the adoption of this law for reasons of political law. And first of all, it's about the fact that it's a HDZ and HSS agreement because this head of probably this Agricultural Chamber, it's the only Agricultural Chamber, it's the only really Chamber in the Republic of Croatia that has its own head, and not the secretary will probably come from the ruling coalition, or the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60565	And a reply to the replica, Mr. Representative Stephen Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60566	Dear colleague Čavlović. I'll do what I said. Although this is the home of Croatian politics, so the Croatian Parliament did not talk about political connotations, political parties' involvement, care or whatever it is called, incarceration of party personnel, etc. I won't talk about it. It's mostly professionally disturbing to me to act like this. As far as professional staff in Croatia are concerned, they are extremely professional, extremely many and are extremely high. We've seen that there's a doctor of science. What can theoretically happen is that their manager is someone who's going to be less professional than they are. I'm not going to talk about organizational skills. It's not often put in the first place. But the other thing is what you finally said was that the Union of Croatian Farmers. It's not just a union. We heard here in the introduction of colleagues from the clubs that they disagreed. Well, even those who have agreed, I must now say this and I'm not likely to have done it very, very kindly and very gladly. But I am aware that there is also this party obligation, but I ask you once again to understand that this will not help Croatian agriculture or Croatian farmers. We will not help Croatia's agricultural and advisory service, an institution that has lived extremely well on the ground, where people from this area are very popular among farmers. And if we want to be in the European Union, let's not put the paws at the feet of those people who are doing their job very professionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60567	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Agriculture is really hard work, we know how our farmers live, what problems they have. Unfortunately, in agriculture, therefore as a particular business, production has been involved in a fierce policy, and we cannot say as fellow Heffer here said, we would not want to talk in this way, but it is not possible to say that this debate actually results in little by little that it is, however, that one of these laws, and by an urgent procedure, one specific political act that a particular party is trying to extend its influence through the formation and operation of the agricultural chamber by attaching the Croatian Institute for the Agricultural Advisory Service. So we attach coke to the chicken. The agricultural advisory service is indeed respectable in its professional aspect, and according to the recognition of the code, especially for farmers with whom it works directly on the ground, employs 220 highly educated experts and another 30 of those in services, in administrative services. So from, of any speaker here today, there is not a single word of interest in the agricultural advisory service. Unlike the agricultural advisory service, the agricultural chamber will therefore be superior to the president of agriculture, the agricultural chamber in which we see some names coming together, almost I would say amateurs, newly-roasted engineers of the evening course, fiishers who cheated on incentives, whose property card is far bigger than any of you here or some other owners in Croatia, so I would say that I would not call unprofessional people by different names of amateurs in agriculture or by taking incentives and cheating on the taking of incentives, they will be commanded by such a respectable, highly skilled, recognised service in the Republic of Croatia, a public professional service. Well, someone said, everyone here says that the agricultural chamber is an interesting organization. Yes, an interesting organization. For whose interest we're just asking, if we say it's interesting, and we say it's true that it's interesting, only whose interests it is. On the one hand, I would dare say that it is a little bit of a dispensation of the Minister of Agriculture, or a division of powers between the agricultural chamber and the Minister of Agriculture which, therefore, receives 250 employees of the advisory agricultural service, so it is in its jurisdiction, although I personally imagined the agricultural chamber here as one, finally one institution, one organisation that will bring together all these divided peasants, their associations under one roof and that will represent the common interests of the family farms and those who deal with agriculture, but here we have one professional public service which, therefore, belongs to the agricultural chamber which, in fact, strengthens and power, but also, above all, political power and influence of a particular party or a particular group of parties on the ground. By means of a clear and partly agricultural advisory service, which Mrs Cavlovic said would appoint a agricultural chamber, according to Articles 6 and 7. Are these really professional people there, rather than those in the agricultural advisory service? And we know they're set up to say it politically, through political influence. And we know that listeners to certain political parties, or parties. Well then it is quite clear why the situation in the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia is as it is, without vision, without strategy, without, with huge imports of everything and everything, not to say garbage from all possible countries and markets that can easily find importers here, and then imports to the merciless, and domestic agricultural production, for which there is no vision, has no strategy to fail. Mr. Maric spoke of a lot of small holdings under 3 hectares, he said 60%, and who says that by changing the structure of the seed, so by moving exactly what someone was saying to vegetables, fruit growing, you can't live on 3 hectares of land. You got it. There are also such and good opportunities in our Croatian God-given day. Unfortunately, there's no vision about it, no strategy. For pig husbandry for 2011 there is an incentive of 32 million kuna. For the production of tobacco, 64 million kuna. So now I'm asking you all together here, does that make any sense? Is there any excess? Have we forbidden to say what they would say in Slavonia... from smoking in all possible public places and non-public, but there are incentives for tobacco production that are twice the incentives in 2011 provided for by budget rebalancing, rather than for pig husbandry. [[You don't understand.]] What do we need more, pork or tobacco production? Or even these influences on the side, so the influences on the side, from Rovinj, are so, greetings from Rovinj, that the sum of the incentives would be what it is. These praises given to the agricultural advisory service in the Republic of Croatia, which deserves it, could actually be a more lush song of the service. And then so-called. The savings that someone here mentioned 20%, which are said to be fired, so let's say round 20, how that's not 18 and a half percent, 22 and a half, or I don't know, but here's 20%. Make it 20 and that's it. Indeed, to which it, to sound good, with which it was elaborated and proved. How has this material proven to save 20%? There's no evidence. There's no choir at all. In spite of all its good work, agricultural advisory services have problems on the ground. Certain rules and laws do not allow them to go further on the ground from where they are stationed, and peasants have the need for these experts, indeed, excellent experts to come to them. However, certain rules restricting, so financial restrictions on the Agricultural Advisory Service are not in a position to get where they need to go. This is also the information here, which is indicated that the 2010 budget positions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development have been planned for the work of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory in the amount of €42 million, of which there are 25 million left by the end of the year. So, is that a savings? We're going to save 20% of some fictitious ones here, and here the savings are clear in kuna, in lime cash. So, these people do work in a thrifty way, and they really need a Croatian peasant and get there on the ground where they need to be. That's what people from the field who are really talking about, I'm not going to say that someone said support from a colleague, but support is just a lot of support from experts from the Agricultural Advisory Service. In addition, given the state of agriculture and unknowns waiting for us in the EU and unknowns who are still unknown and after Croatia's negotiations with the EU, such as some secret chapter on agriculture, so we do not know what awaits us and how, given the considerable inability to access the IPARD programme, what will happen to Croatian agriculture and Croatian peasants? Whom will also be served by the Agricultural Chamber and Advisory Service if
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60569	All right, buddy, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60570	All right, Mr. Vice President, well done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60571	Yeah, thanks. One correction, three replicas. First correction Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60572	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, there were a few things to say that I should fix, but I'm only going to say one thing. Mr. Representative Grubisic said members of the chamber were placed on the party line. Mr Grubisic, however elections are held for this House, so elections were held for the Chamber Assembly, sent to the addresses of all family economies, a secret vote, people voted, elected and elected members of the chamber. Whether it's democratic or not, you're judging by your conclusion, I don't think there's any more quality democracy than such an election. And surely those people who have been chosen have been elected in a democratically legal way. Whether someone likes it or doesn't like it is a personal matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60573	Replica, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60574	The advisory service is also the administrative body, the agricultural chamber is Mr. Grubisic as you called it an interesting party body, so literally a quote. ... Well, then I added a party. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How do you connect it? At this point, no one knows, nor do those who propose this law. It is unfortunate, however, that in the Croatian government everything is turned into one great interest and that each party in the ruling coalition simply drags it aside. The HSS is pulling aside, the Serbian party is on its side, and the HDZ is not talking. And this law at this point he's pretending, he's the synonym of an unseen gentlemen of political predatory. It's, I'll call her institutional corruption. Clearly, there is no money in the game, but in the meantime there is a huge political interest which is also materially quantified. So, what kind of interest? It means political interest, field coverage, employment and so forth. If, on the other hand, we destroy an institution clearly that we are creating damage to the state, clearly that it costs, that the next day someone will have to correct and understandably pay for it. And that will ultimately cost taxpayers again. But we don't call it corruption today, but I say it's equally devastating if not worse than corruption itself. So these laws that work today are the price of this HDZ coalition, HSS, minorities, etc., which we failed to break down yesterday. That's why the opposition asked for mistrust yesterday about this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60575	Reply to the replica Mr. zastavnik Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60576	Thank you. Mr. Caine, you seem to have recognized it only after my debate and I somehow seem to have woken you up to discuss it like this, and obviously we feel the same way around here even though I didn't say politically as you said, but that the political solution to the bill is quite, quite correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60577	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60578	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. ... Interestingly organized. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] I said it was an interesting organization, but in terms of the interests of joint manufacturers. I think that is how we should view Croatia's agricultural chamber as an interesting organisation. And what does that interest mean? That according to the stock market forecasts, for the next five years, wheat is said to be in, and gold is going to be out. What does that mean? It means they're going to eat and demand more and more wheat, not gold. Why? Because they're hungry after every elemental disaster, and we've had examples of this year's flood of Pakistan and India and fires in Russia more and more. It means that our goal also needs one institution to give farmers, or producers, over a certain period of time, to initiate which production needs to be produced more and less. I think that should be the point. And especially with us when we have indicators in Croatia in the last 15 years and I was talking about wheat, that one year was production less than three tonnes per hectare, that in the last 15 years there was production less than 4 tonnes, and in 9 years that production was less than 5 tonnes per hectare. So it shouldn't happen like it happened this year when we had 140 thousand acres sown and there were these elemental accidents and we barely have wheat for our production. And last year we had somewhere near 200 thousand acres. We should therefore know how to say, and this is the institution that needs to know how to tell manufacturers what to sow next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60579	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60580	My colleague Bodakoš, I am fully in agreement with those interests of peasants and the agricultural production you speak of. But I was talking about someone else's interest. So on certain private interests through the draft or founding of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. In order to support this, I must say that there are no peasants or farmers from Slavonia at the Management Board of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Or is this Slavonia really uninterested in those interests of the general Croatian general to say social ones for the production of food and agricultural products. Well, there aren't any members of the Agricultural Chamber Management Board. The fact that I'm not talking about the president doesn't mean we're talking about the president on the board of directors, that I'm not talking about the president and the interests he represents are his own interests. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60581	And Mr. Agent Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60582	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Grubisic could be understood from your debate that you are against the chamber. I'm sure you're not entirely. Namely, I'm for the Agricultural Chamber. I've done it many times in my debate and said it. Negativeness within the chamber, I do not want to believe, and I believe that you do not want to believe that over 10,000 agricultural holdings from Vukovar-Srijem County are all negative or over 8 of your Brod-Posavina or over 16 Osijek-Baranja. So, I believe that the agricultural chamber is needed for Croatian agriculture and in my debate I pointed out at the European level of the agricultural chamber the states negotiate, negotiate, jointly plan everything else together with the ministries. What I'm saying is that at this point, it's supposed to be working to develop that chamber. And it is essential that those who live from their work have some association, or that they have an organization that will be a roof at national level. I was with a fellow Serb who was not here at the session of the Croatian Chamber of Engineering Engineers yesterday. There was a debate in Parliament on their separation from architects and builders. I believe that the profession should have its own association and that it should perform uniquely in those segments where it makes sense. But right now, we need to give space, we need to give potential, we need power to the agricultural chamber, and only then do we have to burden it with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60583	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60584	Thank you very much, although I'm a little late in my reply to the replica. But in any case, Mr. Heffer, every country in Europe is particularly agriculturalally developed and others have their own Chamber of Agriculture that has its own tasks. But each country of these countries has its own advisory service, which is a special institution, a special service, a public service dealing with agricultural production and what is in charge of its regulations, rules, etc. Therefore, it is clear that the Chamber of Agriculture is something that is, as in all other professions, the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Croatian Chamber of crafts etc. something that Croatia needs. But those political interests, those political deviations, what I said before in my debate tell me that something is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60585	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60586	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. If he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn. That's what the people say. Mr. Podnar, when I claimed that a billion kunas were estranged from the Croatian forests a year, he said that I was talking nonsense. However, a billion kuna evaporated annually from the Croatian forests. Data that the Croatian forests have not denied. Or to quote "According to rough estimates, the state-owned company of the Croatian Forests has suffered damages from even billions of kunas every year. For half the amount of about 500 million kuna there is also official support." And now that I don't quote it all or rather not to read it, it means annually in the forests of which the Croatian company of Croatian forests is cut down 7.3 million cc's of wooden construction. If we compare that figure with the serviced data of the Croatian Forests, according to which only 5.5 million cubes are cut annually, it turns out that 1.8 million cubic metres of wood disappear annually, which at the market price of 300 kuna per cubic bit means more than 500 million kuna of lost income, etc. If someone steals for heating, poor thing, let's, come on, it's a weird social policy you'd be. No one can steal, of course, but what people are going to have to do is just warm themselves up, and winter is coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60587	But this is the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60588	So wait till before we talk about it, now we have to finish this, so I'm gonna go back to the chamber you don't need to fix me. But if someone steals that tree to resell it or I don't know what, then it should be understandable for one thing to end it. Mr. Podnar said Croatian forest income is 2.5.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60589	... Come on, pal Cain, be nice. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Don't you understand? ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, he doesn't understand. Well, you can't discuss that right now. .../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60590	It's the chief of forestry, HEP, HAK and what I know, HRT, etc. So one more time, and I'll figure it out, if she steals the poor so she can warm herself up with a tree, let her and if she...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60591	What to do with my people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60592	It's not social policy, but if it's first condemned to resell or... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60593	Comrade Cain, let's not play games. ... My friend Cain, I'm warning you one last time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Stick to the subject or I'll take your word for it. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60594	As far as this law is concerned, this Agricultural Chamber Act is on track, Mr. Vice President, of the HDZ and HSS agreements. Why, because we're setting up an advisory service with about 250 people at this point in time. That's what I call a political hybrid, a mix, a mouse-mouse. Mr. Shacks has more rightly qualified it as a strange beak. But this mythical being of Croatian policy that is being subordinated here now and this advisory service in order to satisfy the political appetites of HDZ partners is something that in the long term damages the advisory service that has been very much confirmed in practice. All the countries in our environment, facing the west, have a agricultural chamber. It is necessary to fight for the credibility of the institution, to have advisory services, but I do agree with those MPs who say it is not logical to make a difference because we will do enormous damage not only to the state budget but to our farmers. This is not one perspective policy and against such a policy when we failed yesterday in distrusting the Government should be opposed to making such legal proposals. And that's the basic reason why we won't vote for that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60595	Thank you. Two corrections. One, Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60596	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First I didn't, I have to fence, this is really not what to call it. For a simple reason, because Mr. Cain read an article, and sometimes there's something written on the board, so no one gets into it. Since I do know that part of forestry, I think this is an unvulnerable data for a simple reason because you can take that one of the trees is a cube, so you'll get that 500 million cc's can be achieved in Croatia, so based on the current state, you'll make a reckoning and then you'll get 500 billion losses. I mean, let's not bring up some things that aren't professional. Just for the sake of others.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60597	It's so you can't see the woods from the trees So the trees don't make you see the woods. [[/Intruder: What?]] Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60598	... I'm sorry, so I'm joining the correction, it's incorrect what my colleague Cain said, but on the other hand, it's a miracle what he approves, he says if someone steals wood, he steals wood. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So there's a legal way where people can get warm in the framework of the Croatian forests on average, in the contraction, that way, you understand. But I know a colleague of Cain who is at your heart; for if a lot is cut down, then who will be able in the woods, and the song of the woods and the mountains is questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60599	Thank you. State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60600	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here's just maybe a few words at the end about the debate we heard. So the most controversy was about joining the advisory service to the agricultural chamber. I must stress that this is not some Croatian invention and some attempt of ours, I would say that it is a good practice of certain European countries, we also heard in the debate in the opening presentation and I think it is a good synergy of the economy's representatives through the chamber and our advisory services which are truly supposed to be, must give one additional quality. So here I invite you to support these amendments to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, and in this way we are definitely convinced that we will make a positive step for Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60601	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60602	Ladies and gentlemen, as announced now, we will vote on the debated and closed agenda points by announcing that next week will work, because we have agenda points almost the same as when we started the session. So we have to work a little more intensely, we'll probably work some days maybe Tuesday or even Monday because we're 18. Now as far as we can see. It's mentioned Vukovar and so on, so I can't say anything, but next week it'll continue. We move to a vote on debated and concluded debates on agenda points. So we move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. But before we see if we have a quorum. Please engage to determine the quorum. Let's get involved to determine the quorum. We just don't vote for it or against it. We have 89 present representatives and representatives. We can decide. So we move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 618. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The draft law on amendments to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber with the Final Proposal for the Law was held in the first reading. All objections and proposals from the debate will be sent to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the text of the final draft law." I would like the representative of Mr. Stephen Mikolčić's motion secretary of state to show himself on this proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60603	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposer, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, does not accept the conclusion of the reasoning because the conclusions of this law are passed or this law is adopted by an urgent procedure for the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60604	Thank you very much. I am voting on a proposal from the SDP Representatives' Club that the government has not accepted. Please include and vote on the SDP Representatives' Club proposal which the applicant does not accept. The result? This proposal by the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted. It voted 29 for, 5 abstentions and 70 against. The amendment was submitted by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to show himself about Mrs Zgrebec's amendments submitted to Article 6 of the first amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60605	Mr President, the applicant does not accept this amendment for a reason either because the members of the Agricultural Chamber are registered in the register of agricultural holdings managed by the paying agency in accordance with the Agriculture Act. The Agency shall accept requests for support, process them, pay support to agricultural holdings in accordance with the law on sustained aid in agriculture and rural development. The Chamber's contribution will be paid by direct payments users in agriculture to members of the agricultural chamber, and it is logical to propose that suspension and accounting be carried out by the Payments Agency in accordance with the Law establishing the Payment Agency, whose activity is other than the legislation prescribed and the activities prescribed by specific laws within the framework of the Agency's section for the purposes of agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60606	Thank you. Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60607	The truth is that I only partially heard an explanation for the noise in the assembly. But he thinks that in Article 6 where it is defined how it will be calculated and suspended and paid to the chamber's gyro-account, a chamber contribution in such a way that it is done by the paying agency for those who are in the register and who receive support, which means that those who are in the register and do not receive support will not pay a chamber contribution. And I also think it's unsustainable for the paying agency to do that. This is practically to reduce the funds to be paid to farmers from the state budget. So please vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60608	Thank you very much. I am putting the first amendment of Ms. Dragica Zgrebec on Article 6 for a vote which the motionor does not otherwise accept. Who would please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The same representative on Article 7? Do you want to apply to Article 7 concerning points 5, 6 and 7?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60609	Mr President, the applicant does not accept this amendment for a reason, as the proposed article is prescribed for the process of taking over officials and substitutors of the Croatian Institute of Agriculture and Advisory in the Chamber. Such a proposal created a legal basis for their acquisition, deployment and possible cancellation of the labour contract in case of inability to schedule. The assumption is that the cancellation of the labour contract will not even take place after the adoption of acts on internal establishment by the chamber. The Civil Service Act applies to officials and subsistence officers who carry out advisory activities as a public service, and to public relations, the Labour Act which would apply in the event of termination of the employment contract, so that the removal of the proposed provisions is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60610	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60611	So far, we have passed a dozen laws that attach certain activities of the agency, institutions and other institutions, and there have been no such provisions to decide who will be admitted into employment from existing agencies and who will not. This is the first time that a farming chamber will decide with whom they will conclude a working contract and who they will not with, and it concerns people who work in the Agricultural Advisory Service. The assumption that it won't come to that is just an assumption. Therefore, there is a realistic possibility that someone who works in the Agricultural Advisory Service today will not receive an employment contract to continue their work in the Agricultural Chamber. I'm asking you to take a vote on this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-10-22-0.u60612	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. Score. The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 73 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 32 against. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow. It's scheduled at 12. We continue at the usual time at 9.30, and the first point will be the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. Thank you very much and have a nice evening.
