ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u52844	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank you for the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure which allowed me to use a break of 10 minutes on behalf of the SDSS Club. There are two reasons why I called. And I think they're both worth enough for this House and worth enough for what each of us is doing, including the club that I belong to. The first reason is that today we will have all three chapters to join the European Union, including Chapter 23. I went out for this pay phone to support the opening of this chapter on behalf of the SDSS club as much as it depends today on what I'm going to say here today and refer these words of support, but it depends on what we've been doing so far and what we're going to do in the future. The second reason is the fact that former President of the Croatian Parliament Dr. Zarko Domljan on Croatian TV, whose founder, so the Croatian Parliament, in one show several weeks ago and in one show three days ago, spoke things that can least be characterized as hate speech. The President of the Parliament says that one who is not in the Parliament or is no longer in the Assembly can no longer be a reason to seek a break. Every time we come together as a presidency or clubs, we gather in rooms where the former president of the Parliament is present as well as all the other presidents of the Parliament. And it's a commitment to them and obligations to me and obligations to us that fact. Mr. Domjan, in his act, presented the reasons that have deeply shaken us, on the one hand, and on the other hand, deeply concerned us. He suggests in his statement that the Michaela Rabbit family had been properly liquidated. He suggests that Milan Skoric, who was the restaurant manager here in the early 1990s, was allegedly ordering meat from the meat shop of Michael Zec and because of his nationality, and Serbian nationality was rightly fired from work. Is it possible for colleagues and colleagues, that we can say this today and that we can hear it today? Another thing I'd like to say. On Saturday, we had a memorial in the Ustasha Logor Jadovno, which was also attended by the President of the Republic, which was attended by representatives of the county and city authorities for which I thank both of them. The monument in Jadovno was devastated and one plate was restored and returned, as well as the monument on Pag in Slana. Meanwhile, the panel he set up has been restored by the Serbian National Council of Coordination of Jewish municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, the Union of anti-fascist fighters has been removed and has disappeared. So, as I support the opening of the chapters of colleague and colleague 23, so we invite you to open your eyes and ears that these things in our clarity and our environment are no longer possible. I'm sorry I took your time on behalf of the SDSS Club for this sort of thing. But every time something like this happens, I will consider it the best place to say it here, this pay phone and this House, because Mr Domjan did injure the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia regardless of which issue it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u52845	Thank you. I do not dispute any of what is necessary for the Croatian public to sensitize for many of the problems that are very important, but there is no business opportunity to bring this up in this way. That's why I reacted. But if there is a need to open up a debate about a phenomenon, there is no reason why in our society that it would not be initiated and discussed in a regular parliamentary procedure. Therefore, this provision of the Rules of Procedure does not speak about the contents of any intervention or need or political justification but says that they cannot be asked for breaks because of these reasons that I have stated here. Here, that's my intervention. Secondly, this is where Mr. Andrija Hebrang's breach was reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u52846	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Pupovac injured Article 223.b of our Rules of Procedure, which is inadmissible and is an abuse of the Croatian Parliament's pay phone. What Mr. Domyan said on television is not for discussion on this House. If there are any obstacles, there are bodies that solve it. Mr Domjan is neither a member of this Parliament nor a member of the Croatian Democratic Union, he is a citizen. The citizen has the right to tell the media what he wants, not to discuss it in the Assembly, but to discuss it on other competent authorities. As for the Rabbit family, we've all expressed deep regret for everything that's happened. The judicial authorities have spoken their own words, and I think it's an object that has no dispute at all. If we start to abuse Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament for everything citizens bring out in the media, then I will seek every 15 minutes a break and a session of the Croatian Democratic Community Club whenever a citizen says something against the defenders in the Homeland War, when he says something against those who are unjustly convicted, unjustly suspected or slandered in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u52847	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u52848	Thank you. I think hebrang's colleague misapplyed to article 223 as an article that gives him the right to warn him of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is about a warning from a colleague of Pupovac about something that is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is a topic for this Assembly and will always be a topic for this Assembly. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Expresses Verbis prohibits the spread of hate speech, national hatred, the support of any national impatience and is not at the level of political attitude. A political attitude can have a wide variety of differences that you disagree with, but it is a political attitude. The hate speech and support of international impatience is directly prohibited by the Constitution, constitutional matter and as such is the subject of this Assembly and of questioning or association so that killing people in any way would be justified or could be justified is an absolute violation of the Croatian Constitution and here is the place to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u52849	I did not dispute any debate about whether the Constitution was injured or anything in the political life of Croatia that is important to the Croatian public. I'm just saying that through this institute that we have here it's impossible, and it's possible in the procedure to propose a point of the agenda and discuss these phenomena beyond and that other opinions can be heard, etc. and possible support to such opinions and so forth. So I'm not contesting the absolute right of someone to talk about it, but through this institute that I've quoted here. Secondly, he also came forward to correct the incorrect allegations regarding Mr. Pupovac's exposure to MP Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u52850	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct the inaccuracy of my colleagues, Pupovac, where he claimed that just because he ordered from citizens of Serbian nationality, meat was fired by the head of the assembly guard who was also a Serb nationality. In fact, Mr. Zarko Domjan said that he received information from the service that he was at risk of security as well as from the president of the Parliament and the staff of the Parliament, given that they were clearly involved in some kind of organization that threatened the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u52851	This debate and incorrect allegations and violations of the Rules of Procedure indicate exactly what I said. If a matter is launched before the Parliament then there should be an opportunity for it to be discussed, not to be made by some comments short, insufficient, etc. open the debate. That's why there's this instrument. I have no objection to the opening of the debate on these phenomena in the Croatian Parliament, these and others that threaten the system, threaten possibly in someone's opinion and constitutional order, etc. But I'm saying, I'm only talking about what article 223a and b is about. Thank you very much. We are passing, as we have announced, on - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on memberships in tourist communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 553. Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Mr. Pupovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55173	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55174	Stanku?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55175	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55176	But at least one word must be said, according to the Rules of Procedure, for what.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55177	About the circumstances in which we, as representatives of the SDSS, work in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55178	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're about to interrupt what we started reading, and we're going to continue at nine o'clock and 50 minutes of the session. So, break to 9.50. Moving forward, we continue with the agenda item on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities and the report I mentioned you received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr Zeljko Lenart, State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism, is the representative of the motion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the membership law in tourist communities. The economic recovery programme, therefore, aims to create more favourable conditions for the business of economic operators on the market. As one of the priorities in the implementation of this objective, the programme has defined the measure of reducing non-tax administrations. Proposed amendments to the law, membership bonds have been reduced by approximately 5%, and the rate for all is 20% linear. The economic operators will thus pay less membership in the total amount of around 25%, creating a more favourable business environment for the business of the economy and significantly disbursing them in the payment segment of non-taxable liabilities. Out of the total amount of funding collected, membership fees will be targeted and 7.5% will be allocated to tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas. Dispersion of economic operators will amount to around 50 million kuna, and a total of around 3.5 million kunas will be collected from the Croatian tourist community's total funding to support tourism communities in undeveloped areas. Bringing amendments to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities will help create a stimulating business environment by reducing the burden on economic operators and enabling tourist communities to act more efficiently in undeveloped tourist areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55181	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mr. Brkaric, chairman of the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55182	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. At its 31st session held on 16 June 2010, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 1 June 2010, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The tourism committee discussed the final proposal in question pursuant to Article 69. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The opening statement on the reasons proposed by the Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities with the final proposal of the Law was submitted by State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism Mr Zeljko Leonard. The present proposal proposes amendments and additions to the law in the scope of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to create favourable conditions for the business of economic operators on the market. The same programme identified the government as a priority measure the reduction of non-taxable fees that include membership fees in tourist communities. Legal changes regulate changes to groups of economic activities in which legal and natural persons who are bonds of payment of membership in tourist communities are classified, reduces the rate of accounting and payment of membership fees. A change in the allocation of funds collected from membership fees is also proposed. By changing the membership rate by 5% and reducing the membership rate by 20%, economic operators will pay a lower membership fee by 25%, and projections say the economy will therefore be disbursed by around 50 million kuna on an annual basis. 7 and a half percent of such collection of membership funds, according to projections of 3 and a half million kuna, will be set aside for the development and functioning of tourist undeveloped areas. The adoption of this bill will contribute to the adoption of a more stimulating business environment through the reduction of non-taxable burdens on economic operators, the obligation to pay membership fees to tourist communities as well as the more efficient action of tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas. In the debate followed by the members of the Committee on Tourism, they proposed to amend and supplement the law in question in the section relating to the reduction of tourist memberships as a temporary character, and that this reduction should apply only until the end of the economic crisis, since the revenues from the collection of tourist membership are aimed at promoting destination, editing of tourist sites, issuing tourist promotional materials as well as organising cultural and tourist events and promotions of Croatia abroad. By the way, it is recommended that the tourism ministry provide additional funding to local tourist communities as these communities will reduce their income by 25% by applying the proposed legal provisions. After the debate was held, the committee proposed by the majority of votes, 6 votes for and 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55183	Thank you. Do the other working bodies want? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55184	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, MPs and MPs. We meet the main tourist season at the HSS club with moderate optimism, counting on the total tourist traffic similar to last year's and financial results that should be as good as last year, perhaps something better. We also expect Croatia's tourism to start in the summer months without a minus, and this includes statements by the Minister of Tourism, as well as the head of the Croatian Tourist Board. The passing of this law is an indication that the Ministry of Tourism is concerned about the development of continental tourism and the development of undeveloped tourist areas. Namely, the system of tourist communities was established to promote and improve the tourism of the Republic of Croatia and the economic interests of legal and natural persons providing catering and other tourist services or performing other activities directly related to tourism in a way that manages the destination at the level for which they are established. The system of tourist communities is hierarchical and makes it 320 tourist communities, municipalities, cities and places, and tourist communities at the county level as well as the Croatian Tourist Board, which is a national tourist organisation. The revenues of the tourist communities are prescribed in Article 65. The laws on tourist communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism are residence tax, membership fees and revenues from carrying out the economic activities referred to in Article 10(3) of that Act. In addition to that tourist community, revenues can also be made from the budget of local self-government units and regional self-government, the state budget, voluntary contributions and gifts, property owned and the like. The most expendable revenues are from residence tax and membership fees and are spent on the tasks and activities set out in the law. The membership is one of the original revenues of tourist communities that finance the prescribed tasks of the entire system of tourist communities such as promotion of tourist destination, promotion and participation in the organisation of tourist resorts, the publication of tourist promotional materials, the promotion and organisation of cultural and tourist events, the development of strategic, marketing plans for tourism, the creation of new tourism products, tourist promotion abroad and other activities aimed at creating the best possible conditions of tourist stay in tourist resorts. Liabilities to pay the membership fee to the tourist community are legal and natural persons who in a tourist municipality or city have their own headquarters or branch, plant, facility in which services or similar services are provided and which are made permanently or seasonally by providing catering services, services in tourism or by performing directly related activities. The legal and natural person pays the monthly fee of the membership fee of 1/12 basis according to the account of the business result for the previous year. The final calculation of the membership fee shall be carried out within the deadlines and in a manner prescribed for the calculation and collection of the income tax, i.e. income tax. The amount of membership fee paid to the tourist communities system depends on the group of activities, basics and rates. Due to one of the common objectives of the tourist communities, which is to promote tourism products for the areas for which they were established, a wide range of market space has been opened for various economic operators for tourism-related jobs, which will ultimately contribute to the greater quality of tourism promotion and better positioning of Croatia in the country and the world. In 2009, some 300 million kuna were collected from the tourist boards, and about 200 million kuna from the membership fee. The Ministry of Tourism has given 105 million and 500,000 kuna to the Croatian tourist community. The economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is aimed at creating favourable conditions for business of economic operators on the market. As one of the priorities in the implementation of this objective, the programme has defined the measure of reducing non-tax administrations. Starting from this, the membership fees to the tourist communities are one of the forms of non-taxable payments whose reduction is in line with that programme. The proposed amendments and additions to the law regulate the change in the group of economic activities in which legal and natural persons are classified as obliged to pay membership fees to the tourist community, the reduction in the rate of accounting and payment of membership fees, and the change in the allocation of membership funds. The payment obligations of the membership fee have been reduced by about 5% and the rate at which the membership fee is paid to the tourist communities by 20%. The economic operators will thus pay less membership in the total amount of around 25%, creating a more favourable business environment for the business of the shareholders and significantly disbursing them in the payment segment of non-taxable liabilities. In addition, out of the total collection of membership funds, it will be targeted and will target 7.5% towards tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas. Dispersion of economic operators will be about 50 million kuna, and at the special expense of the Croatian tourist community, about 3 and a half million kunas will be collected from the total funding of the membership fee, which will be spent on supporting tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas. The savings achieved from 50 million kuna will be distributed through the entire system of tourist communities, with a target of 3 and a half million kunas and will increase the efficiency of the activities of tourist communities, and will aimly develop the total tourist offer, improve the living conditions of tourists, strengthen the development and promotion of the tourist product, and the overall arrival of tourists in areas where tourism is not sufficiently developed. What does that mean in practice, I'm going to give you a few examples. First of all, I will give an example of Kutina, my hometown, which in 2009 collected 356 thousand 500 kuna from the membership fee, and 25 thousand kuna from the tourist tax or Maria Bistrica, our sanctuary that took 68 thousand kuna from the membership fee, from the tourist tax of 7 thousand kuna. Or Kutjevo, our top wine destination, which was collected from membership fees by 53 thousand 300 kuna, from the tourist tax of 13 and a half thousand kuna. With this law, all these destinations that I have listed will receive 7 and a half more money for promoting tourist destination, promoting the participation and arrangement of tourist resorts, issuing tourist promotional materials, encouraging and organising cultural tourist events, developing strategic marketing plans for tourism, creating new tourist products, tourism promotion abroad and other activities aimed at creating the best possible conditions of tourist stay in tourist resorts. It is important to highlight the positive developments in the field that will take place with the amendments to this law, in terms of connecting municipalities and cities, especially in the continental part of Croatia, in order to form tourist communities of the area. We already have one such example today, an excellent example in Baranja, in which the tourist community is joined by 6 municipalities and one city and for the work of that tourist community we at the HSS club have only words of praise. This rationalises the business of tourist communities, as well as the more efficient use of financial resources, and thus the implementation of their laws of prescribed tasks. It can therefore be concluded that the adoption of amendments to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities will achieve the creation of a stimulating business environment, reducing the burden on economic operators who are obliged to pay membership fees to tourist communities, and enabling more efficient activities of tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas. That's why we at the HSS Club will support the adoption of this law. These amendments and additions to the laws apply from 1.1.2011, since the final calculation of the membership fee of tourist communities is related to the submission of a tax application submitted by the end of February, or April of the current year. I would like to remind you that according to the provisions of the new Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, the duties of the President of the Tourist Board are carried out by municipal mayors, mayors and mayors, depending on the unit of local self-government, or regional self-government for the area for which the tourist community is established. This creates a positive link and enables cooperation between the public and private sectors, between tourist communities and local and regional self-government units, tourist communities and the private tourist sector. It is also directly possible to reduce gaps and obstacles between many destination goals, primarily given the coordination of development tourism activities, and the coordination of tourist destination objectives, as well as the greater integration of the tourist community into the local community itself. All of them, like other activities, are mainly related to the achievement of the tasks of the tourist community under the leadership of the president of the tourist community, which is also the head of the unit of local self-government, i.e. regional (regional) self-government. In this way, assumptions were created that the president of the tourist community, together with all the visitors of the tourist offer, will best know what needs to be developed in the future and what are the best products to make this destination as competitive as possible on the market. We do not want to be a country of cheap tourism, but Croatia wants to be a country of quality tourism. That we have good starting points of speech and publication of CNN these days which put the Dalmatian coast along Andalusia in Spain, Patagonia in Chile, and France's Burgundy, four top tourist destinations. If you are planning a journey to life, why not go to someone who includes the best food you will ever eat in life listed CNN in his tourist guide and offers several destinations, including Croatia, where tourists can enjoy the top culinary specialties. At the HSS club, we were also pleased with the news of the award of the prestigious American TV award "Wow Croatia" Ashley Colburn and John Needden, who spent a week on a study trip through Croatia in September last year, with the support of the Croatian Tourist Board, recording the most beautiful staff from Zagreb to Dubrovnik. They put a special emphasis on the cultural historical heritage of our country, and on the rich one and gastro offer, hotel accommodation and night life. We express in HSS the satisfaction and pride of having our country through culture and beauty of landscapes decided to present to numerous American audiences, and we look forward to the tourists who will come to us. We support the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism and the Croatian Tourist Community that promote Croatia as a country of quality tourism, we also support the adoption of this law that will contribute to the development of continental tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55185	Thank you. It's the HDZ Representatives' Club, and Mr. Attorney Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55186	Your Honor, the secretary of state. So here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. One, as we have heard from one of the main objectives of the economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is aimed at creating more favourable conditions for the business of economic operators on the market, has defined as a priority the measure of reducing non-taxable duties. The development of tourism is therefore not without investments which have been significantly reduced in the last two years due to the crisis and the lack of finance in the market, both in the capital market and in this price of capital and crisis outside Croatia, i.e. globally. Starting from this, the membership fees to the tourist communities are one of the forms of non-taxable payments whose reduction is in line with that programme. The development and promotion of tourist offer plays an important role in the tourism community system with the main office of the Croatian Tourist Board as a national tourist organisation. The membership fee is one of the original revenues of the tourist community that is financed. The 2008 Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism are prescribed tasks of the entire system of tourist communities, both at the state level and at the level of the county and at the level of cities, municipalities and settlements. Therefore, the allocation and the amount of funding paid to the membership fee is very important for the operation of the tourist communities system as well as for the implementation of activities for this. So there is promotion of tourist destination, incentives, participation in the organisation of tourist resorts, the publication of tourist promotional materials, the promotion and organisation of cultural and tourist events, the development of strategic and marketing plans for tourism, the creation of new tourist products, promotions abroad and similar things. The membership law in tourist communities therefore regulates membership bonds according to activity groups. The basics and rates at which the membership fee is charged and paid to the tourist community, the way the membership fee is paid, the registration, the billing and payment of the membership fee and other issues of importance for the payment of the membership fee to the tourist community. Obligators of payment of membership fee to the tourist community are legal and natural persons who in a tourist municipality or city have their own headquarters or branch, plant, facility in which service is provided and the like. If it is permanent or seasonal, they generate revenue by providing catering services, tourism or tourism services directly related activities. The proposed law regulates the following: a change in the group of economic activities in which legal and natural persons who are bonds of payment of membership to the tourist community, a reduction in the rate of accounting and payment of membership fees and a change in the allocation of membership funds are classified. By changing the membership rate by about 5% and reducing the rate by about 20%, economic operators will pay a lower membership rate of around 25%. This will create a more favourable business environment for the business of economic operators and will significantly disburse them in the segment of payment of non-taxable liabilities. So somewhere, that non-taxable part will be reduced to economic operators and about 50 million kunas. Out of the total collection of funding, membership fees will be targeted and directed 7.5% towards tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas. It is therefore planned to collect some 3.5 million kuna for that part of undeveloped areas. The adoption of the law will achieve the creation of a stimulating business environment by reducing the burden on economic operators who are bonds of paying membership to tourist communities, the more effective action of tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas. Since we expect one and a half announcements of a good and good tourist season, and not only in the number of nights but also in the revenues, the Ministry of Tourism and the Tourist Community will certainly bear in mind that additional resources will help the tourist community, which will, of course, lose funds in this segment, but on the other hand, encourage untaxable giving to the economy, that they are not in this case. But I say, the ministry and the tourist community will surely bear in mind that, as it has done so so far, both in the counties and at the level of the Croatian Tourist Board, it has provided assistance to all tourist entities. As regards particularly promotion, which is one of the most important things in this segment, to help with additional funds such as fairs, and especially to visit journalists and similar things in all areas of the Republic that will certainly provide one additional support. Therefore, it is a programme for the economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and with the aim of creating a strong, long-term, business, stimulating and sustainable economy, the HDZ Club will support this urgent adoption of the law. With that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55187	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55188	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here, let me quote first, to read this on page 1 where we're talking about the assessment of the situation and the basic issues that need to be regulated by this law. Then it is said here that: "Obligations to pay the membership fee to the tourist community are legal, natural persons who have their headquarters or branch office in the tourist municipality or city, plant, facility in which services are provided etc., which make their income permanent or seasonal by providing catering services, services in tourism or doing tourism, with tourism directly related activities etc." What is more important is that the total amount of funding collected from the membership fee will be targeted, directed 7.5% towards tourist communities in tourist undeveloped places etc. By changing the membership rate by about 5% and reducing rates by 20%, economic operators will pay less membership fees of 25%. At the annual level, that would be about 50 million kuna. It is clear that I am to cut compensation for tourist communities. They've been anchored, there's too many people working in them, there's too much spending, they're throwing money at each other. Simply these tourist communities have no sense of measure, of reality, whether it is a roof tourist community run by Mr Bulic from Dubrovnik, whether it is ours in Istria. I'll only mention one example, that city of Pula, when eight, nine employees travel to New York and drag their husbands and wives with them. They're talking about their expenses, though, okay. And in other communities, I don't speak either. That's why I'm absolutely to compensate for a reduction in the similar opportunities that surround us, which will sooner be harder than it will be. Now, UNICREDIT just came out with one analysis yesterday, that in Croatia we are expected to fall in gross products of 1.5% this year, provided that recovery takes place in the second half of this year, which makes us the worst of all European countries. There will be no growth in one Serbia, but that is 0%, there will be no fall. In Bulgaria -1%, in the Czech Republic +1.8%, in Hungary +0.5%, in Slovakia +3.5%, and we are going down nicely. It is clear that I also advocate that this Article 4 where those 7.5% have been given to undeveloped areas are kept in the area of the county where these funds are realised because each of these counties has its undeveloped spaces, i.e. let this compensation be directed to some of the activities of general interest either in the county budget or in the recovery of some economic systems. And if I had known that Mr. Pupovac would take this opportunity to give us a message about what some monuments in some parts of the Republic of Croatia look like, I would have taken the opportunity to talk about opportunities for an Istrian company called Tekop. Okay. I can see there's a lot of noise going on right now. But 135 people working there are also all of us. I also claim that for example. The president of the Croatian Tourist Board, Mr. Bulic of Dubrovnik, has a higher budget of his community than the tourism ministry's income. The tourism ministry for this year is making revenue, what we have the opportunity to read in the budget of 226 million kuna. The Croatian tourist community certainly has over 200, perhaps up to 300 million kunas of annual income. And what offends me and why I do so, because that information is being kept secret, and you just can't get to that amount. If you were to sum up gentlemen of all the memberships of tourist communities, it means if you save -25%, 50 million kunas, which will say times 4% means 200 million kunas, we get or amounts of the tourist community. But if these fees were added to this income, surely the tourist communities in the Republic of Croatia use about 800 and probably more than a million kunas at the annual level. Gentlemen, that's huge money. Normally a man asks himself a question, what do they do? They'll say, well, we're kind of bringing people in, so look at that data. Last year's stay was approximately at the level of 2008, and as they motivate these consumers, we had the best time today at a session of a committee told the Croatian National Bank's Vice Governor, when he found that the net tourist income in 2009 fell by 15.5% or 6.7 billion euros to 5.7 euros, i.e. the income was lower by one billion euros. It is to assume that tourism revenues will also be lower by at least 10% this year, saying tourism will not have more revenue than 5 billion euros this year. Each head of the tourist community is in a better position than any parliamentary representative. Cards, overtime, lunches, then budgets, cars, travel, and the effects are just like that. Tourism net income is one billion kuna less than in 2008. And a lot of it. And just one message. This Parliament should also be sent to them, but not only for these types of parafiscal givings, but also for these remaining 245, and also for the television subscription, but not the way this government has proposed, either you will be our service or you will not be, because that is not how it is done. Even though we all know that there are both irrationalities and unemployment and excessive ones on HRT, etc. And that same thing needs to be put in order. But I said not in the way that it is proposed by law or law that we will discuss under regular number four of today's agenda. However, to return to these parafiscal duties, to those quasi taxes, taxes, or whatever anyone in this country calls them. In the register of non-taxable donations, the issue of the Ministry of Finance, last year we had 245 tax quasi. It's already that number of 245 scares itself. There are signs of compensation for water, roads, municipal fees, TV fees, and to compensation for tourist communities, crafts or economic memberships etc., etc. Every tourist resort or every county, absolutely than what, has these tourist communities. Every community has at least two, three, five, twenty employees or more professionals, so then clearly we have municipal, urban, county, we have this state community and I said too much. What, though, is the point of non-taxable giving? In 2002 for these 245 donations, the taxpayers singled out or we're 5.2 billion kuna. 2009 for these 245 grants to citizens, the economy, etc. They've singled out $12.5 billion. So in seven years, parafiscal amounts, taxes, fees, whatever the $5.2 billion kuna, went up to $12.5 billion, so that's plus 7.3 billion or one billion. And then a man asks himself a question, who can even track it? And I'm saying that everywhere these givings can go, they can go down 20, 30 percent. And not that I can, but under these circumstances they just have to. Why? I claim that 90% of Croatian entrepreneurs would immediately agree that their incomes are 20.30% lower than they were, for example. In 2008. Personally, I also feel that this trend is accompanied by the salaries of MPs, whether they have to or can monitor the incomes of so-called. tax associations quasi that often turn into money launderers. What better way to be the director of the Croatian Tourist Board or Minister? I assure you, it is five times better to be the director of the tourist community. What better to be, director of the Istrian tourist community or mayor? Well, clearly, it's better to be that director. Or is it better to be the Director of the Tourist Board in the city of Poreč or Mayor? Well, clearly, it's better to be the director of that tourist community. As we might also be able to list what is better to be a representative or, for example, a representative. obtain a 300, 400 thousand severance on HRT or Croatian Railways or HEP or Croatia Insurance? What is better to be a representative or one of 400 people on the Croatian Railways who have managerial contracts there? And of those 400 of them 107 unions also have management contracts on Croatian railways. Even though it drops down the unions on the collected signatures. And there's nothing to think about whether or not to hold a referendum. There's got to be a referendum. The second thing I also want to say is, 20, 30 means I said I can already get down there and parafiscally impose this income on the tourist communities. You should also say that when we're talking about these tax quasi, never here's the order of our places, for Istria I'm sure it wasn't what it is today, under this territorial structure where you have municipalities from 500 to 1500 or 3000 inhabitants, cities, etc., all together almost 50 local self-government. However, it should also be admitted that it costs all of it. I'm sure there's never been so many parties, events, let's just say summer on the Adriatic as in recent years. The tourist communities are also responsible for this, but it also costs money. By the '90s, we all know that hotels were built, people were employed, and today we bring performers to this infrastructure created by the '90s, etc. Although it would be better if it were the other way around. All in all, I am saying that this cost is reduced, but to keep those 7.5% in the areas of the county that this money should direct to that one common tourism infrastructure, and I say that one road is for sure or the arrangement of the hospital is as touristic as well as health care or as we want the social infrastructure of a space etc., etc. And now I'm gonna go back to that Tepo again. I remember talking to a union leader in Istria. They say here we are protesting yesterday in front of the county, the day before yesterday, we'll be in front of the city. What is it that he says is a picture for tourism and therefore I ask the competent ministry that this problem can be solved because it is 135 people and solved. Other than that, tourism is certainly a strategic branch. It is to be followed by a large number of people on the coast, but also on land, working for the coast or for this tourism. But what we need is not jeopardizing this activity to pass a law on tourist land. Why, gentlemen, the prince's privatisations that have controlled the coast for 20 years are so protected by someone in this government. What's the government's interest in giving them 20 years' rent on hundreds of acres of tourist land? This rent is measured in tens of millions of euros, so here's the money for a referendum. The golf law wasn't necessary, but the tourism land law did. There's one, I won't say tycoon, I'll say Mr. Kukurin proposes savings at the county level of 40 million kuna, okay I respect that, and he uses 30 acres so-called. the tourist plots this government gives him for zero kuna. Here are 40 million kunas of savings or 70 million kuna for a referendum. The poor woman on 1m2 has to pay everything from 2, 3 to 15 euros per square square, and someone who weighs hundreds of millions of euros actually doesn't need to fly anything to this country and let someone tell me that there is no corruption in the work. The second is also interesting, who puts most of these councils of tourist communities. So again, those who actually have these big economic systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55189	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55190	Just one more sentence. If they had that majority, then those who have these big systems, they're kind of using that money for themselves again...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55191	Thank you very much. You said a sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55192	Even though I am to help the economy just as well, I am to change that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55193	Thank you very much. You're out of time! Thank you very much. We have to stick to time. We can't always go the way anyone wants. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HNS club, HSU Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55194	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In years of recession, in years of financial and economic crisis, each of us will surely agree with the principle that we should try to relieve the Croatian economy. We certainly support that principle at the HNS-HSU club. But what is missing, colleagues and colleagues, in this bill, is something that should not happen, and almost regularly happens to us, which is a lack of quality analysis. What are we really going to accomplish by implementing these changes to the law? We, colleagues and colleagues, lack the interpretations of what we have heard here in several sentences and received in the light of this law, which is an undeveloped tourist area, which are the criteria for calling an area an undeveloped tourist area and probably the Minister and the Croatian Government knew why we would help them with 7.5% of these membership fees, why this amount. We want to know what areas these are, we want to know which projects will be spent on because obviously when it is planned then it must be planned on the basis of the clear goals that are to be achieved. I don't know anything about these goals, distinguished representatives of the government. At our club we tried to reach some conclusions, of course we couldn't reach them, and today we expect you to give us all the elements that are absolutely missing in this material before this debate ends. Furthermore, if we help the undeveloped tourist area a, b and c then we want to know which projects. If we spend that money on journals and travels, on tours of fairs across Europe and the world, then we do not agree with such a form of assistance to undeveloped tourist areas. If it will be a transfer of good practice, education, if it will be a tourist promotion and a promotion of the tourist offer, then we agree, but we want to know which areas they will receive and for which projects. That's very important. Besides, it would be good, here we have heard that there are over 200 different forms of parafiscal giving in us. We only touch one of them here. We want to know what the Government is planning with other parafiscal gifts, forests, water, the Chamber of Commerce, etc., etc., etc. It is then a systematic approach and then we can say that the total sum will give good results. We colleagues and colleagues have made every effort to try to see what will be achieved in some companies under this law. And here on the coast we took two companies, we took one hotel company from a circus of 90 beds, excuse me 90 rooms and they have a seasonal character of work. And they will save at the level of their 2009 incomes from colleagues and colleagues you know how many 1500 kunas. Then we took one company, a trade chain. They work 12 months a year. They'll save $3500 a year. Now you can figure out how much this will relieve the Croatian economy, how much it will help them really make a step in their development tomorrow. I'm begging you, let's be serious. Let's not do this. We work with arguments, with numbers, let's add up those numbers. We see what the government is going to do with the rest of the parafiscal givings and then we say that we did something or I can say in advance in front of our club, that if this is going to be the only bang, the only discharge then we can condemn it in advance to failure. I have been asked by some of the tourist community employees to ask the promoters to make another amendment to this law, which is the problem of those who want to work seriously, who want to plan seriously. They ask tax administrations to report to tourist communities every 6 months how much membership fee is paid. One simple aid that would allow them to know by which means they can count on taking action a, b or c. We who come from Rijeka, from the coastal part, from the blue part of Croatia would not want this to be understood as our opposition to helping green Croatia, absolutely not. But when it comes to solidarity between colleagues and colleagues, solidarity for health care, yes, for education, yes, for a number of social activities. But when it comes to economic competence, then we have to be careful. Because I agree that our minister coming from continental Croatia has absolutely the right to propose the shift of certain funds and the financing of some parts of Croatia that have so far not taken advantage of all their tourist potential. However, he must clearly and answer for failure. In fact, if we take away two, three, four, five percent of those successful communities, we've been looking out for losses on the coast of the tourist community between three and five percent of the total revenue. That'll make it so clear and weaker promiscuity. It's possible that they'll get some weaker results. Some if these funds will achieve at least the same great success in those undeveloped parts. But if nothing is achieved there, and here we have taken away the possibility of promoting and promoting offers, then colleagues and colleagues have done nothing economically. Did you get my message? So, subtracting one, helping the other, must be clearly based on the success of the other, which will compensate for the potential deficit in the first. I'm not going to go into any more details, but of course we're asking to explain the arguments that are missing in the opening part of this bill. And it seems to us that it would be very good to have time to install and the elements that I'm talking about, that maybe today the government accepts our proposal to be the first reading, the first reading of the law, and then with one complete systemic approach, with clear arguments we accept this law in the second reading when we have one complete analysis of what is expected to achieve with one of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55195	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55196	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Doric said that certain tourist communities would be taken away from some of the money and given to some other communities, which is not true. I wouldn't want it to stay hanging in the air. I think it's clearly defined by law and I explained it in my presentation on behalf of the club in which membership fees are collected. So it is not true that someone will be taken away to give to communities, tourist communities on the continent, and I think that we must agree that the continent needs to invest, because the continent has the potential to develop tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55197	Thank you. It's SDP's turn, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This law, i.e. the bill of law, has a lot of indetermination, and from the previous presentation of colleagues from the CNS, you have seen that it is not in fact an adequate savings ratio, or what is taken from the savings. I would start a discussion with the allegations of the law when it is said with the aim of achieving a strong business incentive and a sustainable economy, priorities are set for reducing non-taxable fees, including, of course, membership fees to the tourist community. It continues to state that there are particularly justified reasons and that the conditions under emergency procedure are met for the adoption of the law. My colleagues and colleagues, I cannot recall that we have proposed measures in the SDP to help the economy, we have warned in time that Croatia has entered the recession period and that this means for the Croatian economy to face major problems with which the consequences result from job losses, large indifference and thus a number of other side events. We have also warned that the state cannot close its eyes before this, that measures must be taken urgently that will naturally help the economy solve these problems. Among others, a reduction in profit tax was also proposed for companies reinvesting profits in new production or development or profit that is not derived from not taxing which would naturally increase company capacity. Of course and it was rejected, and it was rejected like any other measures that were actually continued is one established practice, proposals that came from the opposition no matter what they were all rejected. The Croatian Government has actually welcomed the crisis completely unprepared, with inadequate economic policy and without any strategy, but when the water came to the throat, among the various proposals of the economic recovery programme of the Government of Croatia, there is also this today's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. Memberships as we have heard, it is one of the forms of non-taxable giving, one of the original revenues important for the operation of tourist communities systems, as well as of course the implementation of activities that the legal tourist community is doing. Payment bonds to the tourist community are legal and natural persons who have their headquarters and branches, facilities, i.e. permanently or seasonally earn income from the provision of catering services, tourism services or the provision of tourism with direct related activities. I wonder when we are talking about reducing membership in tourist communities, whether anywhere it is shown to be the wording that components in all these activities that the tourist community, which these activities are being brought to, which we are reducing, are we reducing costs that are unproductive, or are we reducing marketing opportunities. About a year and a half ago, a register of non-taxable income was published, with 245 different fees, fees, premiums, membership fees, most of the parafiscal burdens burdened the economy. This is a major imposition of course on the economy, but colleagues and colleagues have been in the register for two years, but they do not have all the same effects, there are no simulations, there is no knowing what the consequences of the abolition would be, what would be the effects. We have proposed one of the measures to lift parafiscal burdens, but we were so responsible that we immediately said only for a year and we were careful of the good we could suggest for the download. I agree and welcome the return of some of the tourism membership revenue to the tourist communities in the undeveloped area. The total amount of funding collected is targeted and directed 7 and a half percent, however, and it is unsettled by who, for what. We also heard how much the relationship would be in the financing of these tourist communities, how much would it be with this law, by accepting this law, and I wonder that the tourist communities should do their job, who would make up for it, certainly to the city and municipal budgets. I can say that these measures that have been proposed are too late and are essentially not encouraging, but have a purely cosmetic character. On the other hand, if there is a greater share of tourism in our country's balance of payments, then it is these tourist resorts and smaller towns and municipalities that must invest in enhanced resources through their tourist communities of destination management in order to actually further develop tourism. It should also consider decentralisation of the direction of these large funds that exist in tourist communities, precisely locally, on cities or municipalities. There is a question of erasure and insurance and reassurance as an obligation to pay membership fees, as part of their income is realised by those companies on the basis of the results of tourism. It's so-called. The multiplier effect of tourism. So here's the proposal, you can measure winter and summer traffic, as soon as the increase in summer traffic can mean it's actually the result of tourism. I would like to mention further irregularities in the laws of the Ministry of Tourism which have encountered problems in the field. In fact, the Ministry of Tourism has made a guide to which tourist membership is paid only for part of the insurance directly related to tourism, such as travel health insurance, tourism and the like, and in 2009 a significant amount was paid now than the one which was finally sought. And now insurance requires the return of those funds, and these funds are invested because everyone who works in tourism knows when the funds are planned, that is, when the tourist season is planned. However, it is not the problem with memberships in tourist communities, but in spending structures. The growth of Croatian tourism is nowhere near what is spent on promotion and of course we do not support such a tourist community that is our own purpose. But to increase tourism traffic, we need to build a Croatian tourist product, today is a tourist product that gave us nature and what our ancestors built, but we need to know that we have to fight for every guest, that there are 800 million tourists in the world, but we don't know who they are, what they want, or how to bring them to Croatia, because we don't have a systematic tourism policy and promotion. The question is how to take from those 800 million at least one additional million for the Croatian market, what are their preferences, what kind of tourist product these people want. This requires professional and systematic research and analysis, the same strategy and policy. And an integral part of such a strategy is essentially a promotion carried out through tourist communities. I can tell today some colleagues praised the Ministry of Tourism and Strategy, but it is difficult to recognise the tourist strategy both the Ministry of Tourism and the tourist community. That's how I'd say it's hard to recognize the goal from the beginning of what this law will bring. I can say that there is no systematic approach to managing current and long-term development. It may be a whole mission, more complete and logical, if the thesis is declared by which Croatia is the country in which tourism has practically implemented concrete tourism incentives. For example. reduction of VAT rates and the like. SDP club, I must say, we are aware of the need to give incentives to the economy. However, we think that this is a cosmetic nature without real analysis, without simulations, and that is why we suggest that with all these remarks that we have said that this law is still going to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55199	Thank you. It's on behalf of the HDSSB club, and I'm sorry, one correction to the incorrect quote. Dear Representative Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow MP pointed out in her debate that this law was about cosmetic changes and that they were too late. This is not true because this is about discharging economic operators that will amount to about 50 million kuna, and at the special account of the Croatian Tourist Board, there will be another 3.5 million kuna from the total funding of the membership fee that will be spent to support tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas. So it's not about cosmetics, it's about concrete changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55201	Thank you. It is now up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry and colleagues and colleagues. Well, I haven't had the opportunity to make corrections for Mrs. Petir, but here, this law has been in force since 01.01.2011 and it's an emergency procedure, so if we're talking about lateness or profiling however you like, this time, I think, or, in my opinion, right, there's no confusion in correcting an incorrect statement of opinion, is there? Namely, this is one I would say an external event, or as the cosmetics colleague said, this bill, which shows that here the state hastily taken care of economic operators, about the economy and here's a savings or a 25% reduction in the total amount of tourist members' economic operators is a disbursement of the economy, in the amount of 50 million kuna. And it's a strong economic, says incentive, and help our economy. In the second part of this bill, it is said that 7.5% of these 50 million kunas will be redistributed or intended for tourist undeveloped areas in the Republic of Croatia. And these tourist undeveloped areas will be decided by the tourism minister by their decision, which is therefore undeveloped areas. We now have no criteria that will be touristly undeveloped. That's not what we're talking about. Or it is in the personal thinking of the minister who will decide it as has been decided so far on both roads and on everything else. Tourism as a strategic branch of the economy, this was about it. I listened to a professor of economic science who said that, one of them, although opinions are different, that tourism should not actually be or at least not a branch of an economy where one state strategy or the economy of the Republic of Croatia should rest. The fact that he is somewhat right is also the fact that according to the CNB report mentioned here, it was collected from tourism for last year 5.6 billion euros, and that at the same time, as far as I know, the capital of Austria Vienna that has no sea and no sun and no beach, and no beautiful blue Danube has been sang but some different, cloudy one, so he has received from tourism at the same time over 8 billion euros. One city, one state. Tourism is a clear branch that depends, and whose business depends on a lot. From international circumstances to climate and other circumstances. Here, we also see this year that this inflow of tourists both domestic and foreign on our coast. About those who talk about "blue" and "green" Croatia, and then there is a bit of disdain for redistribution, I must point out that continental tourism is, therefore, a number of tourism in Slavonia and Baranja, thank God, something that I have to say about the elements of more lasting values and opportunities and independence than the facts I was talking about. Both climates and others. That is why it is good that at least this crumb, as I would say, of 7.5%, and that is 3.5 million kunas to be redistributed to, here are 3.5 million kunas to all undeveloped tourist areas to be decided by the minister. It's really a crumb. So what's being talked about here and perhaps wrongly referred to as the cosmetic effect of this bill is that the Republic of Croatia's 50 million kuna economy, which is a crumb compared to all the private interest profits achieved by individuals in crime and corruption, is the rights of crumbs. And we've seen it all. So it's in function, in the same function as the decision and announcement of a reduction in the TV fee. And nothing else. The reduction of the TV fee is for the public, for the natural persons, the reduction of the membership fee to the tourist communities is the release of the economy. If that were to happen, in the analysis, if this were to be broken down, if it were indeed a strong contribution to fostering the economy, increasing the standards of citizens and TV fees and this, although it is not for comparison in terms of this material legally, then we could discuss it. This is how I think it's more of a measure or a bill that's being announced, a strong incentive, an economic incentive for our economy for which a 1.5% drop is projected for this year. In addition to everything, I must reiterate the fact that some legal entities in the Republic of Croatia, I mean banks, insurance companies, etc. many or largely in foreign ownership achieved profits in the last 8 years of 222 billion kuna or 30 billion euros. Now that we're looking at these 3.5 million kunas, it's 7.5% of the tourist membership that's going to be distributed to these areas, then we see how tiny these crumbs that are going to go there are, and that's part of it in Slavonia and Baranja as most likely declared a tourist undeveloped area. I guess that's what it means, what Mr. Doric calls the green part of Croatia. The tourist community itself and the costs, the costs of the business and the rest I wouldn't discuss, because here it's already someone fierce, I think Cain was talking about, how much money goes around in those tourist communities that have gone down like mushrooms after the rain, and if it wasn't good, they wouldn't even be nimbled there. And a really good example of Baranja, which united the tourist community Baranja into one and has a perfectly enhanced effect on the tourism promotion of Baranja. So, if it were not good, they would not be as fungi after the rain, as none of the many bakeries or milling industries also have some advantages in terms of primary production, agricultural products or cereals in the Republic of Croatia. So, the decline in tourism traffic according to the Croatian National Bank report to return between 2008 and 2009 is 15%, from 6.7 billion to 5.6 million kuna or a billion euros less in 2009 than in 2008. Then we ask ourselves, given the turnover of funds in tourist communities, given the residence tax paid by those who are not even guests in their homes, and on this one other occasion, they are owners of their houses. So the new law will also pay taxes on that house and the residence tax on that house, when they stay at sea or on the continent, so that's most likely somewhere else. But if we already have a 15% drop, did it shrink and pay, the net salary of those who care about it? Or as someone said that the tourist communities in Croatia have about 800 million kuna of which the tourist community of Croatia has about 200 million kuna. This is the budget of a larger county hospital in the Republic of Croatia for a year, which treats 20, 25 thousand patients annually. It's really huge money. And the effect, clearly, is that the recession in the world has an impact on the number of tourists and tourism traffic, but it is quite certain that this money can also achieve better results in promoting tourism and attracting tourists to the Republic of Croatia. Because if I gave and provided information that the city of Vienna itself has more traffic touristic than the whole of Croatia in one year, then in any case, and it is so permanent year by year, then in any case it is necessary to take some measures on the tourist community, the tourism ministry and these problems, I think it should be opened and a broader topic. And these crumbs, which are set out in Article 4, are assigned to undeveloped tourist areas, based on the rules that will be adopted, it is a presentation of future, some, which brings the main Office of the Croatian Tourist Board, with the previous consent of the Minister of Tourism. So, those crumbs clearly don't need to be rejected as small as they are, because they say, "In the angry beggars there's an empty bag," and then there's that. And I think since something shorter or "Eppur are flies," the HDSSB club won't mind such a proposal. But that more radical measures should be taken in this area in this economic area in the business of tourist communities certainly stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55203	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55204	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In his opening part of the exhibition, counterpart Grubisic said the tourism minister would share money as he thought of it. At the end of the presentation, however, he improved himself because he finally read the law, so he saw that he did not share the minister of money, but that according to a special regulation that was adopted by the Croatian Tourist Board's main office, the proposals from the territory of all Croatia are being determined. And secondly, he incorrectly claimed that this law came too late. That's not true, because it's coming just in time. Because it is important to know that by the end of February, i.e. until April of the current year, tax returns are submitted this year and these tax returns can only be further determined for the year in which the calculation of the membership fee of tourist communities will work. So more than in time came this law by my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55205	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. And the first is the honourable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. First, let me say that when we look at announcements and stories about discharging the economy, we can look at it from one side to the other. The fact is that the rates are shrinking, for a certain amount economic operators will pay fewer fees to the tourist community, but in which time period. We must remember that this law was passed in 2008 and that we then significantly expanded the base of taxpayers paying the obligation of members of the tourist community and that we then made a greater mass and greater burden on the economy. So when we look at whether the discharge, or whether this reduction, will affect an economy that was the same as it was going to be now that we have reduced the burden in 2008. De facto means we didn't cut anything, compared to 2008, we didn't cut anything. The load of the nominal economy will be the same, 150, 160 million kuna. On the other hand, what I'm saying is exactly what I'm saying is seen from this, in 2009, there was no revenue from membership fees at all as if none of the companies in tourism or these economic branches that are related to tourism had failed, as if they had not reduced the turnover of 10, 15% as well as all in tourism. No, membership fees are collected in the same amount. So it's not true that we've unloaded the economy, but on the contrary, in 2009, it was more burdensome, significantly more burdened than in 2007 and 2008 when despite recession and traffic cuts it managed to pay so many membership fees to the tourist communities. So we have to talk about whether or not we've relieved anyone to tell the truth, we haven't relieved anyone, it's paid at a higher level than it was in 2007 and 2008. The fact is that we have done many things wrong in this Croatia. In 2009, when economic operators were to be assisted in tourism, we additionally burdened them with increasing the obligation to amend the law in 2008. And that's what's not doing well in Croatia, and that's what we're saying from the SDP that there's no system solution, but it's going from opportunity to opportunity. In 2008, we decided to take a little more money from the economy by amending the law as if to help tourism, in 2009, we see that tourism is in serious problems, that the decline in income is more than 15%, and now as we reduce in 2010, what we took from them in 2009. So, no system but simply I wouldn't, I don't know what to call it at all, a flat-rate solution from opportunity to opportunity without any plan, without any goal, just not to see in which direction it's going all together. And if this money was spent in a quality way, probably no one would mind. Tourism is a significant branch of the Croatian economy. Tourism revenues have a strong impact on our GDP and only the decline in revenues last year from over a billion euros in tourism, a billion to a billion euros is approximately 3% of Croatia's GDP. So half of last year's GDP decline in Croatia contributed to 15% of tourism revenues falling. So there is a huge impact that this economic branch has on the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia. And then of course if something useful were done with that money, nobody would mind. My impression is that it would be best if the situation in the Tourist Board of Croatia and other tourist communities were, perhaps, the best thing to do is to free up at all the payments of membership economic operators and that they have an obligation to invest that money through some forms of tourism promotions, etc. I believe it would be much more efficient to have money than our Croatian tourist communities do. What am I saying that for? Because in 2009, I said the decline in tourism revenues is 15%, a billion 100, a billion 200 million euros. Whether the income has fallen and why the income has fallen can be very easily evaluated. The biggest problem in Croatia was the significant consumption of the local population and about 15% of the smaller population went on vacations. We didn't appreciate it at all, the tourist community didn't, and the tourism ministry didn't accept it and see it as a problem what was visible from the plane. In 2009, unfortunately we lost tourism on the domestic market. What's going on now? Now we see a significant increase in advertising on our media and trying to direct it, I would say ads to the local population in order to improve the situation compared to 2009. Unfortunately, there will be no too much effect, and there will be no effect because of the general economic situation in Croatia, due to the lack of optimism of Croatian citizens, of course, caused by the most behaviour and by the work of the Croatian government which simply fails to offer any concrete solutions that would pull Croatia out of recession. What we should use as an opportunity is the recovery of the world tourism market. This year, a 3.4% increase in the number of tourists and overnight stays at the world tourism market and Croatia should take advantage of its chance. I don't know if there's anything to be done about certain things any country could use. When you see that certain competitors are in trouble, in particular Greece, have we directed additional efforts to try their markets further I would say attack and bring this tourist who will eventually not come to Greece in Croatia because we are similar to the market and distance, even Croatia is closer, and not to talk about how safe it is for a holiday. 300 million kuna, or specifically 278 million kuna, how much the Croatian tourist community spends is money I wouldn't say thrown into the wind, but much of that money was thrown into the wind. There are plans, there are things to be spent on and I wonder if it really is necessary in this time of the Internet, communication to spend 52 million on tourism representations of Croatia worldwide. Is that really a necessary cost? There are a whole series of such costs that the tourist community does, which are not justified. I'll tell you one more expense, this famous butt video cost 770,000 kuna. Anyone who deals small and who has ever been in contact with a commercial or who has seen how much these videos cost is aware that it is too much. 770,000 kuna for one spot. And who's paying for it? They're paying the ones we're unloading here today, and we're not actually discharging them at all. And because of this, what is important in Croatia, which is unfortunately not in the overall economic policy, and so in the tourism of the system, the strategy plan, and not to behave from opportunity to opportunity, that in some ways we buy time, we send messages through the media as we relieve you of parafiscal duties, and in fact, when we look at the figures, we have not released any kuna economic operators compared to 2007 and 2008 with this law absolutely. I will support the law because of what the law goes at least partially in reducing these unjustly high membership fees, but of course I am generally not satisfied with the overall concept of how the tourist community works, how to collect membership fees, and even less I am satisfied with how the Ministry of Tourism works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55207	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honourable representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55208	Mr. Vice President, counterpart Maras said that in 2009, the domestic market was lost, which is not true. It has been reduced by one small percentage, however, at the same time increased the share of foreign tourists as anywhere in Europe for this very reason why a colleague talks about the tourist community spending a lot on promotion, and that is probably why the foreign market of tourists is increased. However, this is again one of SDP's public deceptions and where the results are visible they say nothing is wrong. But the people will know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55209	And a second correction to the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Željko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to correct the false allegations of an esteemed colleague, Maras, who said that if not all 280 million, then most of that promotion money was thrown into the wind. Absolutely anyone, who is even slightly understood in tourism promotion, believes that such means are not thrown into the wind but are necessary in order to just lead in such economic conditions to the result that today and this, even in last year, Croatia and in these difficult conditions has placed them in a country that had the least subversives. And second, certainly the very finding that it would be better for the tourist community to be abolished, so that the economies themselves are somehow involved in the work of what the tourist community is dealing with is actually not going to use a rough word, but absolutely something that has nothing to do with the truth. Namely, there are a whole series of tourist communities, and especially those small and especially those on the continent, I'm not just talking about the sea that is... knowledge, wanting its environment extremely well and quality and representing and creating and precisely those fundamental assumptions for the development of tourism through primarily the development of places, beauty and everything that makes it a fundamental prerequisite to make tourism somewhere... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] or run it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55211	Thank you very much. Time. And now it's next, the distinguished representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55212	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry. So here is the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, and as one of the measures of the Economic Recovery Programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is certainly about reducing non-taxable giving as one of the key measures of the Economic Recovery Programme, and I will therefore, of course, support this proposal. The fact is, it's a five percent reduction. It's about reducing the rate by 20%, which makes all of it 25% off our economies. This will certainly contribute to a favourable business environment. Someone said it was crumbs, that it was small. It is small, but in the overall recovery programme and all those laws that follow us such as the monumental rent, such as the change in income tax, the profit tax will all be made up of one major part. And we heard this morning that 245 special taxes were recorded in the tax register. So, 245 so-called. non-taxable or tax quasi is a burden suffered by Croatian businessmen and therefore this is certainly one of the contributions. What is to praise in this bill is a rate of 7 and a half percent towards tourist communities in economically undeveloped areas. There was a speech here this morning that it wasn't enough analysis and that we don't know from this law which are economically or touristly undeveloped areas. It is reported that it is surely continental Croatia or green Croatia, but it will certainly refer to some Adriatic destinations as well. It's a total discharge of 50 million kuna, and I think that's quite enough to start with. And since we know this will start to apply from 1.1.2011, I believe it was brought in on time. But also someone is saying that the law would go to another reading I don't think there's a need for another reading, but maybe there's a need for some amendments. So it seems to me that it's a good idea that the IRS gives every six months a report to the tourist communities so that they know what means they have. I think that's good. And what to welcome is that they are headed by the tourist communities under new law by the recent presidents of tourist communities, local and regional self-government leaders, which means the mayors of municipalities and mayors, mayors. And by that very fact, since they are budget makers, they will certainly take care of these funds as well as they care about their budgets. Of course, that doesn't apply to everything, but let's just say it should look that way. As for this part concerning the development of tourism on behalf of the club, our representative, Mr. Cappelli, is certain that there is no development of tourism without investment, and this discharge will contribute in this direction even though it is not a large amount, I repeat again. However, all together, all the discharges we have in mind, which we are going to make in other laws these days, will contribute to that goal. There were also talks about the Law on Tourism Land. We had it in two readings. I also join those who wish to see the light of day in the third reading in this House as soon as possible, because I believe that we are losing great resources through this Law on Tourism Land and I am sure that it should be sent urgently to the procedure in order to sow funds from that part as well. but the most important problem is Croatian tourism. Comparing Vienna with 5 billion this morning, Croatia with slightly less than 6 billion people can really ask themselves. However, what is the problem of Croatian tourism at all is a seasonal character, and that is what we all need to take into account together and what should be the goal of the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Tourist Board and all of us, is all year-round tourism, and in fact until there is an entire year of tourism there will be no big income. And I think in that, we all have to work together and how. So lack of content, lack of infrastructure facilities. Infrastructure facilities are congress centres, concepts of the hall, golf courses and everything tourism can make profitable, which can make it an entire year’s source of income. This is what we failed to achieve in Croatia, here I am talking first of all about the Adriatic, I believe that in the continent it should not be a problem, so to the continent I don't think it should be a problem of seasonal character, but it's obviously another problem, and as far as Adriatic destinations are concerned, we should definitely be an entire year's destination. What we have achieved in Dubrovnik is that, we have tourism for 7 months, from April 1st to November 1st, which is a great gain, however, it is still not enough to live on this tourism branch alone, from that branch of the economy, and we are increasingly monopolistically oriented which is not good as well. So on this law, I would like to say that I support, in any case, a reduction related to tourist memberships in tourist communities. I wouldn't trouble those 280 million spent by the Croatian Tourist Board, I'm sure they make the most of their efforts to follow all the world's trends. It is also commendable to hear these days, the film "Wow Croatia" and everything else that has happened, and not related to the Croatian Tourist Community, as foreign companies and some foreign agencies have recognized Croatia as such promoting the world. In that sense, I want to support all the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism, and the Croatian Tourist Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55213	Thank you. It's the honorary representative Jerko Roshin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am happy to join this debate by agreeing or not agreeing with previous speakers, but I think it is an opportunity to talk about tourist communities, i.e. memberships in the tourist community, also mention some tourist topics, first of all. Of course no one likes membership fees, because membership fees are obligations, you have to pay money, but some associations we join can't function without paying membership fees, so membership fees must be done in a certain way. But I'm as surprised today as the other day I'm surprised by the two thesis that are in a certain way a kind of paradox, which is that at the same time the same from the lines of opposition are recognised by some, some efforts in terms of... the economic situation in Croatia, so some things must happen in terms of... [[You don't understand.]] the economic situation in Croatia, while insisting that these temporary measures be limited by time. [[You don't understand.]] It seems to me that something that contributes to Croatia's economy should at least not be limited, but see how long it lasts, until it works that way. Of course, there are always some common places that are used for political reasons, etc., but I'm confused by something else. I am puzzled by the thought in which the incentive to economic development should be first directed by those entities that carry this economic development, these are individual operators in an economy that works and develops, not full budgets, taxes, various donations that have been spoken of, so that the development of the economy from the total amount is alimentated as much money as possible. So this is at least one attempt to make something like this happen. So one part of the money is taken away from the system and given to those who pay these membership fees to use for their own development. In this court and agreeing with the the thesis that the conditions of economic activity need to be improved, I have the impression that regardless of the percentages that are exposed, they amount to a 7%, 25%, a 25% reduction in total that the percentage itself is not as important as that percentage represents. So it can also happen that with a smaller percentage of some membership, the total income of tourist communities can be greater if economic development is so much greater. Is this at the same time a sufficient measure to encourage this economic development in the area of tourism to be very pronounced, remains to be seen, but one of those elements that push forward is certainly. So something that presents itself as a temporary measure in terms of economic development... as long as it takes or as long as it feels that this temporary measure leads to positive results. [[You don't understand.]] We'll stop her when she shows the time. At the same time, we forget that not so long in this assembly we discussed the tourist communities, we talked about what the tourist communities mean, what they should do and how one of the key categories of future work is the one that counterpart Shuica talked about, that is, the leadership of tourist communities, or the position of mayors, or those who are headed by local units of government, who are practically leading their own development policy through the tourism segment as well as through other segments of economic development practically control this work and my own best to assess whether the positive results are achieved by the placement of these funds through tourist communities, i.e. through some collective, aggregated institutions or by individual development of individual entities paid by membershipists. The fact is, as far as we're concerned, not us, but some have talked about dissatisfaction with the tourist effects, and the fact that Croatian tourism is good in the context of the world market and that many other countries are as threatened as we are did not result in the results Croatia had. This year, of course, we are fighting for the best result in tourism and there are certain divinations, because we do not have any reliable data, it is not to believe that the results will be great because in the world it is not great, where people come from, so it is not only Croatia, but it is the issue of the broadcasting countries from which tourists come, but Croatia's tourism is in a certain way quite well swimming under the circumstances that it comes from. In addition to all this, I think that Croatian tourism could swim much better if Croatian tourism and other segments made it possible to develop. In the first row is the use of the capacity that exists today, and no purpose is brought in the way the market is looking for it today as well as investment in new facilities and new capacities, but in new consumption structures within the framework of tourism activities that could be. But unfortunately, I think that in many areas of society, which means not only the state itself as an institution, but in the spheres of society, we do not refer to ourselves in every workplace just as responsibly as we should, and for this reason we get criticism from abroad through ambassadors accredited to Croatia with complaints as to why certain investments at local levels are stalled and should not be stopped. In such specific cases, I have participated and can testify to anyone who asks me to explain it. So I support this initiative to reduce membership fees in favour of tourist communities. Let's see, let's examine in the extreme whether these funds previously planned for placement through tourist communities can be fertilized much more through the placement of the economic operators themselves and how the indirect tourist communities can be filled with more money regardless of the percentage. As it is said that this represents one temporary measure, I would accept it only in a way that we will try this out, if it does not work as well as any other decisions or laws we have made have not been shown in practice as well as expected. I think we have time to stop and go ahead with some other suggestions. In any case, any economic operator who is with this, in this way relieved in their giving to someone else, receives this with pleasure, and the tourist communities really need to see if they have enough money at their disposal to be able to realise the projects that they have foreseen or that these projects are being presented in a different way to Croatia's tourism activities abroad. I don't know if it's 770, no colleagues of Maras, is 770 thousand kuna for that video a lot or a little? I don't know if it could get cheaper on the market, and is that video so well thought out regardless of what that video shows, but is it part of our practice that we all do the best we can? Or do we get the highest quality on the market for money? Just like when I buy a suit, shirt, pants, bathing suits, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55215	Thank you. Now it's time for the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your esteemed secretary of state and respected colleagues. I didn't think I'd be able to talk about this, but listening to some opposition MPs talking about this amendment and supplementing membership laws as well as some crumbs and so, I don't know why they're all crumbs and why some MPs who weren't here last week didn't see that the government in its economic recovery program is precisely that program is aimed at creating more favourable conditions for the business of economic operators on the market as one of the priorities in the realisation of that goal and the programme has defined the measure of reducing non-taxable givings. Well, since this is, among other things, untaxable to give memberships to Mr. Doric's tourist communities, it was the Law on the Forests, so he didn't know it, and he mentioned that there were more and it wasn't done. The development and promotion of tourist offer plays an important role in tourist communities, and this system of tourist communities is hierarchical. It is made up of 320 tourist communities, municipalities, cities and cities, as well as the county-level tourist community and the Croatian Tourist Board as a national tourist organisation. And of course that membership is one of the original incomes of tourist communities that finance the prescribed tasks of the entire system from tourist communities both at the state and county level and at the city, municipality and settlement level. So these are promotions of tourist destinations, various incentives for participation in the organisation of tourist resorts, the creation of new tourist products, tourist promotion abroad. This discharge of economic operators is small for some, but I must tell you those who are in the economy welcome every discharge measure even if it was small for some in the opposition. About 47 to 50 million kuna will be exported to the HTZ’s special account, and some 3.5 million kuna will be collected from the total funding of the membership fee, which will be spent on support to tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas. I think it's quite clear what these areas are all about. Finally, the second item of the agenda is the amendment of the Law, the addition of the Law on catering activities, and this will also be about the tourist offer in agricultural, family economies. So, too, they fall into a line of undeveloped ones who need help and who may be able to promote themselves in this way. We can conclude that by adopting amendments and supplementing this Law on memberships in tourist communities, it will achieve the creation of a stimulating business environment, reducing the burden on economic operators that are bonds of payment of membership. Then enable more efficient activities of tourist communities in these same tourist undeveloped destinations, i.e. areas. These amendments and additions to the law will be applied from 01.01.2011, and the consequences that will be raised by the adoption of amendments to this law are as follows: this is the creation of a repeat business environment and the provision of more effective action. It is important to say that it is a reduction in the flow of funds to tourist communities, they are not expected to be abolished or to cease work. It is important to highlight positive developments in the field in terms of connecting municipalities and cities in particular in the continental part of Croatia to form tourist communities of the area. In this way, the business of tourist communities is rationalised as well as the more efficient use of financial resources, and thus the implementation of their laws of prescribed tasks. What is important, in my view, is that the presidents of tourist communities, municipal chiefs, mayors, or mayors, who will, in this way, create a positive link and enable cooperation between the public and private sectors, so in their area, the regional area will best know what is directed at tourism, including when adopting certain spatial plans and other things. So we should certainly support this amendment. Here I will personally support him and I think we should welcome him in terms of the program.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55217	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55218	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary. We know that, as part of the economic recovery programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also set a priority for a stronger long-term business and sustainable economy. That includes these membership fees. And I will agree with my colleague Doric who said there should be much more, but I will also remind him that at this session of the Parliament, the Law amending the Law on Forests was also passed, which reduced the fees for the general services of forests and thus relieved economic operators of the payments and those non-taxable payments and that the Government is preparing and in its economic recovery programme there are other measures. These are the individuals who come to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. We have already heard that membership is one of the original revenues of tourist communities which are financed, that they are defined by the law which prescribes and tasks of the entire system of tourist communities, at all levels of state, county, city, municipal, local and such 320 in the Republic of Croatia. We also heard that membership fees also finance the promotion of tourist destinations, incentives and participation in the organisation of tourist resorts and the design and development of promotional materials, many organizations of cultural, sports events, the creation of new tourist products and all other activities aimed at making the best possible conditions of tourist stay in their destinations. Here are many in Zadar County who have good results in this business, many of the smallest ones where we have a tourist community such as Pridrage to the largest Tourist Board of the city of Zadar have extremely good results in their work. Due to the fact that the common objective of the tourist communities is promotions, i.e. primarily tourism products in the area in which they are established, wide-ranging market space has been provided for different economic operators for tourism business that will ultimately contribute to a greater quality of tourism promotion, but also better positioning of the Republic of Croatia and the country and the world. In particular, what does this bill regulate? These are the three most important things. The change in the group of economic activities in which legal and natural persons are classified is reduced by 5%, the reduction in the rate of calculation and payment of membership by 20% compared to the current situation. And the third change in the allocation of membership funds in such a way that 7,5% of total collection funds are allocated to the Croatian Tourist Board's special account and used for the purpose of supporting tourist communities in less-developed tourist areas in order to make their activities as efficient as possible. Here, given that this change plans to raise relatively little money, about 3.5 million kuna, I am holding and suggesting to the State Secretarys, that the criteria of development of the area should be well defined, in order for the effects of this measure to be good or to achieve the objective set. However, these changes on membership fees in tourist communities will disburse economic operators for a significant amount of always significant resources leading to the disbursement of 47 to 50 million kunas of non-taxable fees, and the Croatian Tourist Board will only collect or deploy 3.5 million kunas to support tourist communities in undeveloped areas because of the different allocation of membership fees. But again, I stress, it is necessary to well come up with the criteria of the development of the area in order to go exactly to those who need it, or to achieve the goal that we wanted to achieve with these amendments to the law. I keep it even though it is about reducing the flow of funds to the tourist communities, that their action will not be reduced. Experiences and reflections from Zadar County are heading towards further rationalization of business, they are already doing so in a way that the printing of certain promotional materials is not all working individually but that part is taken over by the county tourist community, because it has more accessible promotion points at fairs and that it represents part of the brochure means that part of the brochure comes exactly where it should be, and that some tourist communities are designing those areas where they are strongest. Let's say certain thematic paths, cycling paths, but not in their own area, but in the entire region. I also positively hold and open the possibility of achieving these positive links and cooperation between the public and private sectors, which enabled the new Law on Tourist Communities, which is given to leaders, means the unit of local and regional self-government to better design and plan overall development and, within the framework of it and the development and coordination of tourist destination objectives, as well as greater integration of the tourist community into the local and regional environment. I believe that there is a good and huge space here and for the insurance of financial resources but this opens up an additional possibility and organizations of joint events and some significant savings. Here are the reasons why I support this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55219	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55220	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, colleague Marinović, I mean this thing that you mentioned about this 7% or the distribution method. I think that otherwise membership as one of the original incomes of the tourist community is significant. I think it's also important for us to develop continental tourism, because yet the sea is one brand that we know about both ourselves and the world. However, the continental regions also have advantages and certainly more frequent advertising of any wine roads, natural beauty of rural tourism, etc. In these continental areas, even more people would be attracted. Often they are in these continental areas of tourism beauty and opportunities in undeveloped environments. How to accelerate their development? Well, I think this is good to stand out 7.5%. However, I don't think this is going to go through the main office right now, that this is being granted to the ministry, with the previous consent of the ministry, etc. I think that should go one different way to place the funds on the basis of the programmes offered. The offered programs from a given area would certainly give one greater quality that this program is also funded, not that it goes according to one of the regulations. Whether this rule will be constant, rigid, whether or not it will change, will not change, and worst of all, if these funds are placed, do not let God through political ties or the likeness of a particular environment. That's why I think the funds that are going to go to...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55221	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55222	The main tourist part should not be placed that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55223	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55224	My colleague, in that sense, I was speaking. Nothing, however, I supported this method of separation, but with a warning that the criteria for the development of the area should be defined. Since it's not about a lot of resources, they have to go right where they're going to give the most effects. Lawmakers have an intensities, it's highlighted here, it has law intensities, and I expect the Regulation to be made in that tone. There's no reason to doubt a rulebook that hasn't been passed yet, but I'm saying I had to stress it because the funds this small don't go anywhere by little or bad criteria or by some criteria that aren't good, well-defined. So, to keep the regulation in line with the law's intensity, to help just those in the continental part, I agree that there are excellent destinations and that they should certainly be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55225	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think colleagues that it may be necessary to re-emphasise, when we speak in the context of this law if there is first and foremost a goal to dissipate the economy itself, that the tourist communities themselves, their place and role... We do not marginalise it, and we do not narrow it down to a mere transfer of money, and this is confirmed by the fact that a large part of the smaller environments that the tourist community is one cohesion factor of the tourist offer are doing something that is supposed to be further development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian tourism is not exclusively Dubrovnik, Zadar, Zagreb as a metropolis, although we are definitely proud of it and... is tourism, but also small environments both at sea and on the continent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about the sea and cohesion, the association of the tourist community of the city's leadership and local self-government is exactly a Zadar example, an example of a city called Biograd, which once brought and made several European brands as a event, calling for history and natural beauty. This only shows that they have a place and position on the premises of Croatia, and I am talking about the sea and b) when we talk about the area of the continent, so our food, our drinks, wine and other possible offers are exactly what the tourist communities of space are, places are the bearers of possible such development. Because let's not forget, a large part of these smaller environments, and even in people who are either engaged or potentially able to deal with tourism lacks these knowledge, these possibilities of how to connect, demand funds from different institutions, as can be done by the tourist community of a city or an area. I think that in the context of and in the adoption of this law, it is necessary to say both the position and place of the tourist community as necessary and precisely that connection with the units of local self-government on the one hand...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55227	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55228	And with economics, it also allows for further development of tourism as one of the general elements and segments of nature's development.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55229	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55230	Thank you, fellow Turk, for this replica and for giving me the opportunity to really say that we have in the Zadar County area, but I also kind of emphasized that in my debate, from those small to large ones. But I would especially like to point out from the least tourist community in Pridraga, meaning in Zadar County to this largest commend a number of others who really in cooperation with local self-government units, and now in this law and even more cooperation than they had before, create exceptional tourism products. I will only mention the Tourist Board of the City of Nin, the Tourist Board of Starigrad, the Tourist Board of St. Filip and Jacob, the Tourist Board of Novigrad. Everyone in their area creates an excellent pair of tourist products, and that is why this is the basis for a more significant tourist hike and the use of all areas of Zadar County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55231	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Major announcements were due to this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on memberships in tourist communities by the government. The draft law is portrayed as one that will largely disburse the economy and strengthen the economy. However, of course every reduction always and the Priory should be welcomed in these difficult times, but here is when we see little in the proposal what this is all about, then Article 7 so the latest article of this bill says that the law will enter into force in 1.1.2011,. So, for our government, the tourist season begins on January 1st. And what happens this season? So, what we see is what the government does and how it works. When it comes to taking people away, when they impose a harrassor, taxes, then they come into force on the same day. Nor does he have that vacatio legion of eight days. And when you have to give those crumbs back, then it's a huge delay, but it's showing up, that's what you're talking about, because if you give it right away, then it falls into oblivion. Then the government will have what to say for the next few months. All in all, a little solution to major economic problems or how a famous poet would say a lot of shouting for nothing. In fact, of the 245 parafiscal burdens that include this membership fee, if it were a more drastic reduction, the economy would feel little. The economy of our groaning under such a burden, not in those taxes, but in such impositions, and it is more unsustainable. It's unsustainable in better times, let alone now. Therefore, what the SDP club proposed and what the entire SDP advocated was to make one tax reform in which such an imposition would disappear and where the tax burden would be fair. This is how we continue and with these things we remain a deeply unjust country. I'm just going to point out that the latest amendments and the Tourism Act, and then even after we connect this law as well as the residence tax and how the flat-rate tax is paid, how the tax is paid in advance, so our people who are below who are additionally in Dalmatia, who, in this way, are interested in the latest changes of a few years ago, have to finance the state, that we don't talk about many people, especially down from Dalmatia who are not paid subsidies, who in this way are paying in advance to the state. What about this one bill of law, anyway? That it's a drop, a drop in the sea. Therefore, if the government really meant to relieve the economy, if this was an emergency measure, there is no reason why it would not come into effect immediately. But the question is, if there's a little reduction, then 244 more of this kind of thing or even worse. What does the government think about that? Is there an answer? There isn't. He says fellow Markovanovic that here, let me count them 10. But they really exist. That's what our masters and small craftsmen will tell you, because first they have to earn money for these burdens. But for this, then, how to feed that administration of ours, unencumbered and the question of this membership fee. Of course, tourist communities from place to place, from municipality and city work differently with more or less success. But the fact is also indeterminateable so far is the perception that often somewhere, especially at the state level, it serves itself quite often. How many employees are there? How many trips that are not in the service of those programs are primarily established and for which they should exist. So, our old Croatian habit. We spend, or save, on small things, and throw ourselves in large places. So the fact that the state should have taken care of both tourist communities and where and how this membership is spent would have been enough. So, this measure is a drop in the sea and nothing without a revision of the entire tax system and the abolition of these 244 remaining, and yet untouchable intrusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55233	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to correct the allegation of a distinguished representative who's said a lot of shouting for nothing. I would comment on it, say it differently. It's a grain to a grain of cake. Therefore, and a set of small measures in its total provides a solution for which, among other things, this law has been passed. It is clear that this political stage is where we express our views, but it is truly unargumented to say that through this law, and in the context of the members and members of the tourist community,... the unsustainable administration is fed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is an inappropriate expression, because it really offends a large number of tourist workers and workers from those municipalities to cities or all those who do their part of the work without compensation. For let's not forget members and members of the Board of Tourist Communities are presidents And the only thing that's ritualized is when we talk about some professional services, it's something that's paid for with directors. [[Intruder Capricorn: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55235	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55236	Dear Vice President, my colleague said that this would take off some kind of drop in the sea, so if 50 million drops in the sea in this situation I think it's completely incorrect. And I'm also joining in so that you should look at that drop in the sea and who spends as much. There are just some mayors from their party, i.e. from the SDP who spent this winter most pedalling around Europe and the world, so let them ask whether it was good or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55237	Thank you. And now we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd just like to update my colleague in this sense when he's talking about this 245 register as it's called non-tax revenue. In fact, seeing the rise in exactly the costs paid by the economy and citizens in three years has increased almost two to three times. So, some four and a half billion years ago, an analysis was made. Twelve and a half billion kunas of these different costs paid by citizens and the economy were collected. This also motivated the Ministry of Finance to make up this so-called "Further" in 2008. the register of non-taxable income precisely in order to analyse what it pays for and how it could be rationalised and reduced. So it would be wise and good if such an analysis had been presented, that in a short time, in fact, the laws that regulate such givings, not that we have each week as our president says one measure each week. This is not a measure, because you have no effect if I don't know what you're going to do in six months, and should be applied immediately. Or if you send one measure at a time every week or every two weeks to the Parliament. So if such a register is already made up, if we have done such an analysis, then all the measures should be resolved at once.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55239	Thank you. I just have to warn you though, you said at the beginning you'd complete the debate. You cannot complete the debate under a replica, but you can replicate a fundamental debate that was before and for the sake of others, and also for your sake. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55240	It doesn't matter what it's called, content matters. And my colleague was replicating me, so I'm going to answer her line. In fact, you're very good at saying that we should do a complete analysis. But it doesn't really need to be, it's enough to be an ordinary citizen, it shouldn't be government experts who know this is a problem that bothers the economy, and nobody said it wasn't. But what we've been doing for years, so we've known for years what the problem is, but there's no systematic solution. Our systematic solution, the government has refused. Obviously here and where some time delay measure is, it's for you, and the organism has metastasized, and here and there we give some apaurin every few months. For who and why? For dying obviously your own conscience. We need systematic measures and radical abandonment of these paranoias, from which citizens and the economy can no longer live.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55241	Thank you. I must warn you, however, that distinguished MPs first cannot be polluted with the chairman, and the second form and content are very important, both. Thank you very much. You can't paralyze. Let's move on with the debate. Honorable representative. Please calm down already. Let's calm down. You're doctors, not me. [[The intruders don't understand.]] It is next to the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55242	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've already heard that the membership fees to the tourist communities are one of the forms of non-taxable donations and its reduction is certainly in line with Croatia's economic recovery programme. The funds collected from membership fees are important for the activities of tourist communities systems and, of course, in the realization of activities such as promotion of tourist destination, planning of tourist resorts, making tourist materials, organisation of cultural and tourist events, promotion of tourism abroad and so on. With this proposal for amending and supplementing the law, the bonds of payment are also changed and are reduced as we also heard the rates, i.e. the rate where economic operators will pay smaller fees, which is all around 25%. Of course, a different income schedule has been achieved from membership fee in a way that out of the total amount of funding paid, membership fee is 7 and a half per cent directed and allocated to the special account of the Croatian Tourist Board for, and dedicated to, those areas where tourism is poorly developed as an economic activity. The remaining funds are also allocated in a way that goes 65% to the tourist community of the city or municipality, 25% to the Croatian tourist community and 10% to the tourist community of the county. This proposal for amending and supplementing the law defines differently certain groups of economic activities in which legal and natural persons are classified in the obligation to pay membership fees to the tourist community. The application of this law will create, we have also heard a more favourable environment for businessmen who will be significantly relieved in part of the payment of non-taxable liabilities. In any case, it should also be commended that the efforts of people from the Ministry of Tourism, as well as from the Croatian Tourist Board, which in fact opened up a space for raising this economic activity to an even greater level in the development of each unit of local and regional self-government. I hope everyone sees that tourism in the current conditions is good ships, and the results are also seen in that positive sense, so here I will say in my county of Sibenik-Kninska at this point we have a 12% more inflow of guests this year than it was last year. In addition, this law, together with the Law on Tourist Communities, will improve the cooperation of all entities in this branch, will also improve the status and improve tourist destinations that are not sufficiently developed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. These are all reasons why I will support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on membership fees on tourist communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55243	Thank you. And as the last individual on this subject, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55244	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. One quite understandable way to pass the law if you want to do some of those basic objectives of the economic recovery programme of the Government of Croatia, where you are of course talking about how those non-taxable, non-taxable givings should be done in some way when they are reduced or abolished by economic operators to give the opportunity to reach the air and to take one uphill route. And everything would be fine if one of those 245 untaxed payments as well as memberships in the tourist communities were proposed in this House, on one piece of paper, so if it were said that all the entities that pay for it are being reduced in this percentage or in another, this one is relatively good, it leaves the life of the tourist community, however, gives the opportunity for companies that pay it in some way to reach the air. But not that there's a drop in the sea, but it's not a drop in the sea if it's to achieve that goal, which is to make an economic environment for companies that pay those untaxable givings better. What does that mean when it does, this seems to me to be the third untaxed measure that came before this House, where's the 245? The effect that we're saying that this measure will eventually be total I don't know how many million, but let's look at that individual or individual company that, which is going to be, which is going to be reduced by 20 percent. That doesn't mean anything to her. If the other 200 of these non-taxes don't come at the same time in a row, then it'll be some kind of effect. Here, that's what's wrong with this law. And it would be good if the legislator who had the intention to free everyone from a non-taxable giving would then just stick to it. But as it is in the middle of the tourist season, tomorrow it seems to me, when this emergency law comes to the agenda, and then the legislator has given himself the right to, apart from this basic task that this law should have, then a little bit more and a change in the existing law, and then there's a lot of illogicalities. For example, if the help line of financial services and insurance activities is deleted, why is it deleted and only the exchange rate is set? Which is where these exchange offices are now, these are freed from any giving, these others that I just cited, and the exchange offices fall under the ones that even that 20% of them are released. Why did these others suddenly get free not to give it at all? Or, the insurance line has been deleted, resecuritisation of pension funds, except for the obligation not to repeat now, and these activities are now precisely specified. I don't understand why you now took only partially and released them in part, and 100% you freed them in that large part of how much they contributed naturally to the tourist communities. It would be more logical then that the overall effect of insurance, the reinsurance pension funds applied that 20% rate, and then it would be something even. It is even more unclear why, instead of but not least, promotion, advertising and market research propaganda as bonds to pay membership fees to tourist communities are prescribed for only those promotion agencies that carry out precisely specific activities in the framework of creation... Which are exactly the specific activities, it doesn't say here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, some promotional agencies in this respect will be freed of any payment of the tourist fee, and some will, when it is defined, specify exactly the specific activities they will still pay 20% less. I think it's a lot of illogicalness in this law, and it's not good that one such law then that had the intention to reduce one non-tax part, so it goes into some other things, and then a lot of it stays unclear or a lot changes. And of course, as one of the colleagues in the previous debate said, they can agree with these 7.5% when changing the model for the distribution of total funds and when they need to be directed into undeveloped tourist areas. What is the definition of a tourist undeveloped area? The back of Dubrovnik? Mount Kotar? I don't know. So what is it, how is it defined as being less valorised and less touristically developed? I don't think it's a good idea for one general feature to determine what it is. It should be much more precise and of course I will always be against the fact that such a thing is governed by the Minister and the Ministry by its rules. If it is, you have already hit the law itself not only at the height of that non-taxable part that is being paid but you have hit something else, then you have to say what are the tourist communities in the tourist undeveloped areas and that it is not the minister who is doing it but that it is done thoroughly by law. And here there was a lot of debate not only on this point, because of this point, because of this percentage that in some way decreased to tourist communities but then, here we heard very much and trees and rocks on all tourist communities. Well, they're no good, so they're unnecessary, so they're guilty because it's a loss in tourism, because this season won't be good. So it's a billion less in the budget. I wonder how those tourist communities at those times when tourism was or profit from tourism were quite low, when they got to that 7 billion of some money that made tourism, how good it was then, and now that this minus or loss is suddenly not good. I don't think it's a matter of tourist communities, that we shouldn't talk in such a way about the need for such tourist communities to exist or not exist. Of course, we are very pleased to see on CNN a commercial that is trying to tell tourists that Croatia is a beautiful country and that we should go on vacation in Croatia, but someone should pay for it. It is paid by tourist communities or someone else with tourist communities. So, you need the tourist communities. I think it will survive this blow, that it will survive this blow, but I say it would be necessary if this is the fundamental objective of the government's economic recovery programme aimed at creating favourable conditions for business of economic operators on the market, then this measure is not only a drop in the sea but it is nothing if those other 200 measures that should be taken to achieve this goal are not in this month, in this session of meetings before us, and so we send a strong message to the companies and the owners that we are really on to help them by freeing them from these duties, let's say so. I think it's the only purpose. This way, if those 245 come before our benches and in our assembly sessions, it'll be 10 years until they're all in order, and then they won't need any more help from any economy. I think it should be resolved in one month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55245	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned parafiscal givings and their numbers twice in your presentation. Indeed, perhaps we should repeat here in front of Croatian citizens that in the last few years in Croatia parafiscal donations have increased from 5 billion to more than 12 billion. That's a hell of a lot! And surely there's a rabbit in that bush, but I agree with you that what we're doing is just a drop in the sea. I said in an exhibition in front of the HNS-HSU club that one hotel with 90 rooms would save 1500 kuna at the annual level. How much will it help them for an economic space? No way! This is about a drop in the sea, this is about changing the law without a system, without criteria, without analysis and without a plan. Wouldn't it make sense that when we talk about tourist communities at least we did an analysis of their success, pluses and minuses? We never do, and we never have that kind of approach, which is kind of sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55247	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55248	Yes, thank you, fellow Doric. Of course, the lack of such a bill is also what colleagues in the ruling coalition used to say, you should always see what the ultimate effect is, the ultimate effect we heard here is 50 million. But the ultimate effect for a single company is poor, if that's just this one measure. If we're saying that the ultimate effect is at all for all the companies that pay for this imposition is 50 million kuna, and you said yourself now we've come to those 245 let's say 200-thins in this year is carrying 12 billion. If that's the case then we're in this month all 200 suspend if we have to by the end of the year for two years we'll probably survive in that time. So one strong message would give the economy the impulse to move and that all of us would grow up and start to feel this bit of optimism that we need so badly in this dark situation where the economy and all of us are together. Yes, it should have also had these effects written so that it can be discussed better, but I think that this claim that this is a measure that is only individual, and nothing much means that it is necessary to bring in then a strong, quality measure that will in some way contribute to what is said and achieved in the objectives of this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55249	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter esteemed Željko Lenart State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55250	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to go back a little bit to these 7.5% for tourist communities in undeveloped tourist areas. The income from tourism on the coast is 95%, and tourist communities have the biggest income from residence fees. The continent has 5% of the total tourism revenue, where membership is the most significant type of income of these tourist communities. We must all agree that on the continent there is a great potential in tourism, so through rural tourism and through special forms of tourism, and the transport infrastructure that the Republic of Croatia today owns really enables that in two, three hours you are off the coast on any part of the continent. Therefore, these 7.5% should be allocated to tourism communities in undeveloped areas. They're mostly on the continent. That these destinations are thus developed and that they can offer their tourist products to tourists and agencies who bring tourists, because today it is also a trend that tourists want to get to know the country they are coming to, means not only to bathe where they came from, so we would also like to meet our Republic of Croatia, because we have something to show from natural beauty, cultural heritage, construction, gastroenological and not to list now what. And I think this is not taking anyone and giving someone something, but developing a tourist destination, that is. The Republic of Croatia as a tourist destination from which all will benefit both those on the continent and on the coast, because their guests will also visit the continent and be satisfied with where they came from. And as for the tourist communities, those 25% of the savings that you say may be on their own, but they can save through their associations, because often times and small municipalities want to have a tourist community, and they have a very small part of the tourist story or part of some particular tourist story, and their association with several tourist communities would round up that tourist story, such as the parliamentary representatives here, Mrs. Marijana Petir mentioned a tourist community of Baranja where 6 municipalities and one city joined together in a tourist community, they have one director of the tourist community, and the funds united can be used for joint promotion because they essentially place a single story common to a tourist product that is through the promotion of Baranja and bringing guests to Baranja. I would not say that the tourist communities are unsuccessful, so there are also successful tourist communities that we see and through the results of tourism in the last year that we were among the tourist destinations that marked the smallest minus compared to the major tourist forces such as Italy lost far more, meaning that the tourist communities, the whole system of tourist communities, and thus the ministry did a good job as regards the season. The spread of the Republic of Croatia's economy by 50 million kuna is not limited. This is where the drops, the crumbs, and I don't know what they're not. Without a drop, there is no sea, there is no bread, and a grain per grain is a cake, so I think this is one significant contribution to discharging the economy no matter how much it is along with all other discharges, so it helps economic operators to survive this recession and that they can do as successfully as possible in the future. As far as the SDP advocates' conclusion is concerned, we do not accept it and remain on the move to proceed with an emergency procedure. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55251	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations, first distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you said, you need to separate 7.5% for tourist undeveloped areas. That's incorrect. You need to spare the money for what? For specific cost-effective tourism projects. You won't tell us how you got to 7.5%, for which end and for which projects. That's what matters. We've been telling you that for two hours and we can't get that data out of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55253	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55254	It's kind of like that. It is an incorrect claim that with those 7.5% you think is enough for those less developed tourism as you have said destinations. For a tourist destination that is less developed to get some different status is this 7.5% insufficient money. So we're trying to tell you these 7.5% you have to tell us which projects and programs and where they're going to be spent, and not this way to give them to destinations. Your claim, of course, that then all Croatia should be touristic. That's not true. There's gotta be work somewhere, there's gotta be factories somewhere, and not everyone can do tourism. Where people deal with tourism, there they have to deal with tourism, and this if we are a whole of Croatia one big tourist country, then no one will produce tractors no one will do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55255	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55256	We move to a decision on the debated agenda points. First, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities. It was an emergency procedure P.Z. Number 553, the applicant was the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: first on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities with the final draft law, P.Z. 553 debate was held in the first reading. Second, all objections, proposals and discussions will be directed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the text of the final draft law. During the debate, the applicant's representative did not accept this proposal as a conclusion. I am voting on the proposal to conclude the SDP's Club of Representatives. Let's get involved and vote. Please, this is how this proposal for a conclusion was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. During the debate, the applicant's representative, therefore the government did not accept this proposal as a conclusion. I am voting on the proposal to conclude the SDP's Club of Representatives. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposed conclusions were not accepted. 36 for, one abstention and 70 against. I am voting on the final proposal for amendments to the Law on memberships in tourist communities. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 86 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55257	We're moving to agenda two. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 557 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ivo Mujo, State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55258	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respected parliamentary representatives. The government of the Republic of Croatia has sent a package of tourism laws or a package of measures to help the Croatian economy, to improve the quality of tourism services and to help the Republic of Croatia. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Food Activity, a law that was passed in 2006, which has four essential elements to help and regulate relations within the tourism sector, which regulates this law. First of all, it is a definition of the legal provisions relating to the functioning of camps in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, these are provisions relating to the functioning of rural tourism or tourism on the family holding. We would also like to introduce special quality standards in Croatian hospitality with these provisions. We want to improve or reduce the grey economy with these amendments and additions to this law, and we have also adopted certain minor technical amendments that are necessary for the implementation of this law. And I'm going to try to look at these four elements for a little while. So, since the law was passed, only 45 camps have been given legal solutions due to certain procedures and complications that burden the functioning and outcome of the solution according to this law. We felt it was necessary, so in this time behind us we spent a series of activities to coordinate and help the camps get those solutions. However, since the problem is layered and it was not possible to resolve it, we propose by law that the deadline for a solution for the categorisation of camps should be extended to the next two years when certain circumstances, which were an obstacle to this solution, will be removed. The package of measures or amendments to this law relating to the functioning of rural tourism aims to help family farms dealing with or who want to deal with tourism, rural tourism or rural tourism in rural areas, so that they can do so easier and simpler, that they can deal with this activity more easily and quality than they have so far. I will mention that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry programme have been set as one of the goals of increasing the number and improving tourism services in rural areas, increasing and expanding rural tourism in the Republic of Croatia, since we all know that the potential in Croatia is very high and since we know that there is a great interest in Croatian entrepreneurs, people who live and work and are engaged in agriculture in rural areas in the Republic of Croatia. The ministry has so far launched a series of measures to address, or to increase and improve the tourist offer in the segment. I will mention that the ministry has started with a credit line for the development of tourism in the country. We have been going for many years with a series of support that we want to improve this segment, we have implemented and implemented a number of educations throughout the Republic of Croatia in destinations or regions to educate and motivate our people who can deal with rural tourism to move towards it. And the final measure aimed at improving the conditions for rural tourism development is to amend these laws. We have given this law more flexible circumstances to all those who can and want to deal with rural tourism to do so. We gave them even some elements more flexible than we competitive countries such as Italy and Slovenia because these changes and additions to the laws to the rural family economy can accommodate 80 guests at the same time. Camping in the rural family economy can also receive 80 guests at the same time. We have also expanded the activities that the rural family economy can deal with and we have expanded, or have facilitated, other circumstances related to the outcome of the solution in order to make it easier for all those who have potential, all those who want to do so, to make it easier for them to start work, start up and work on their family economy. We are not satisfied with the number of 262 family farms in the Republic of Croatia dealing with rural tourism. We want that number to be larger and we believe that through a series of these measures, including these amendments and additions to this law, that this number will be much larger in the coming time. Furthermore, by amending and supplementing this law, we also define the possibility of adopting rules defining specific standards and quality codes for our catering facilities and our campsites and we believe that this is as possible in other competing countries and that this will help us through the category of indigenous restaurants, family camps and similar categories that we will improve the quality of our tourist service. In order to improve the effectiveness of inspection and reduction of the grey economy, certain changes in the powers of economic inspectors are proposed during supervision, as well as certain amendments to the criminal provisions of this law wishing that all those involved in tourism, engaged in catering, do their job properly and in accordance with the law. And we are aware that the current legal provisions have not been fully effective to protect all those who are legally working and who are trying to make their incomes through legal activity and, of course, pay the state what is prescribed by law. I will also point out that all these measures and amendments to the Law on Attending Activity have been brought into line before the government procedure was carried out with the professional associations that are interested in this area. We have also brought them into line with the institutions in charge, i.e. the activities to which this law is being amended. And I will note in the end that the implementation of this law will not be and no additional funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is needed. And if you please, I will refer to the amendment which is the Parliamentary Committee on Law, which is discussed on the Assembly Committee on Legislatives, so on behalf of the Proposer, we accept amendments to Article 16 and Article 17 of the Law, since it is legal and no-technical additions in order to make the law more quality. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55259	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Okay. I'm opening a debate. First of all, the clubs are on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55260	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, in December 2006, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Food Activity of the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Food Activity, which regulates the manner and conditions under which legal and physical persons can carry out the catering activity. Amendments to this law were made in the Law on residence tax which we accepted in 2008 and in the Law on Amendments to the Household Activity Act in 2009. The reviewing law and its application in practice have established from the entry into force of the law that to date only 45 camps from those who are obliged to comply with its provisions, and the deadline that expires on 9 July of this year. So that only made 45 camps. It is therefore proposed to extend that deadline by two years. Namely, the other hosts who had the same provision and did so would not have come into the same relationship, therefore because of the unresolved property-legal relations on the land and of course could not have come up with appropriate solutions on the categorisation of the same camp. There has been a lot of talk here today, so it is certain that we will be very likely and quickly on the tables and find the proposal for a law on tourist land which, especially in the camps, is one of the biggest problems of solving these very property-legal relations because we know that in most camps, relations are in the majority of private, ownership of private and state-owned areas, and just by adopting a new Law on Tourism Land, we will certainly solve the issue of one of the major and crucial problems in Croatian tourism. Therefore, due to the perceived phenomenon of advertising, it is also also estimated that advertising of illegal provision of catering services directly or indirectly through public messages, the Internet, promotional material and similar assessment is necessary to prescribe such a prohibition and to prescribe fines for such treatment. Furthermore, as a result of the enriched tourist offer in the rural area, it is proposed to increase the number of excursion guests who can provide services from 50 to 80 guests at the same time. It is also known that today, it was also a note from people from such facilities and terrain that today buses no longer receive just 50 or 54 passengers but today we have larger buses that double deckers or similar ones that receive a circus of 75 to 80 passengers, so it happened in these cases to come with such facilities, and that at the same time they could not provide the rest of 20, 30 tourists service. And in the camp you also get from 10 to 20 units, or from 30 to 60 guests. It is also intended to enrich the diversity of the catering offer, propose the introduction of special standards and quality tags and for certain types of catering facilities from groups of campsites and other types of catering facilities for accommodation, restaurants and bars that we did not have. In order to enable the further uninterrupted development of a program of high quality, which the famous international cultural centre of Croatian music youth in Grožnjan, as well as the art centre in which music courses are held during the summer, it is proposed that Croatian music youth also be able to carry out catering activities in buildings in Grožnjan. For the sake of enriching also catering offers in the function of tourism development is therefore a cultural consequence, it is estimated necessary to enable museums and those established as particularly public institutions to carry out catering activities in their business premises and premises within their very working hours. For the sake of efficiency and better inspection controls, and reductions as we have heard today from the State Secretary of the Grey Economy, certain changes in the powers of economic inspectors are proposed during the supervision as well as certain amendments to the criminal provisions of the law. Thus, the economic inspector will use the oral solution in the minutes until the deficiencies have been identified and, as soon as possible, the emphasis on 30 days from the date on which the oral decision is given to prohibit the legal or natural person from providing further services. Therefore, if the items do not comply with some of those such as enrolment in the prescribed register, therefore without authorisation, if they are provided without a solution which determines that space, device and equipment meet the prescribed conditions and similar things. Therefore, it is possible to buy in and fines, subject to the removal of the identified shortcomings and the presentation of evidence of the payment made of 30000 kuna. It is also important to say that this law enforcement does not require specific funding from the state budget and it is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure. Also, the Croatian Democratic Community Club also accepts these amendments that you said you agreed to be an integral part of these materials. And allowing business to continue very important in the camps. So, as we said, because of unresolved property-legal relations, it doesn't practically come into one vacuum of law, that there is no blocking practically work especially in camps that have very good results these days, perhaps better than in all other accommodation units. And I can say that, therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law in addition to these amendments, which are an integral part of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55261	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity. It would be no wonder if this law did not, it would not come before us today when the last day of June seems to me and when the beginning of the main tourist season in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the introduction says that in December 2006, this House passed this law and that we were supplementing it with amendments to the Law on residence tax and law, amendments to the Law on catering activity in 2009, so let's say for a year we intervened in this law. I agree that the reason why this law should be passed is because we missed it, that we have camps that didn't get the licenses, and that it should allow them to work so that now we don't close them in the middle of the season. I'm asking whose fault it is, why the camps didn't get all the paperwork they needed in time, so they could work. Someone should have watched it, it certainly wasn't this Croatian Parliament, but you are coming with this need to allow for an emergency procedure so that we don't close camps in the middle of the season but to give them the opportunity for two more years to license myself and I accept it if you apologize and say you didn't do your job well and that you missed it and that in any case you need it by emergency procedure and bring it in. And now, I don't know why you were forced into that law in the middle of season 1.7 when no one forced you into it. Because you have found that the observed phenomenon of advertising requires something to react, that it is also necessary to react further in the middle of the season to enrich the tourist offer in the rural area, that due to the effectiveness of inspection controls it is also necessary to intervene now in the middle of the season, I don't think anyone forced you to, that in 2009, you also knew that you needed to intervene, so you didn't do anything. So it's inappropriate for you to pass a law like this in the middle of the season, it's justified that we bring this in because of the camps and give it an opportunity for people who do camping and live on it, that there's two more years of correction to come up with all the necessary papers so that it can be legal. It's not appropriate that in the middle of the season, you get into the existing law in a way that's also not good, because that's good, then you wouldn't even answer. Well, here's what I'm going to say. What I think is that further indulging into this law is not good in this way. For example, the provision of catering services in the rural household. Either the tourist communities or the tourist workers or the tourist people who deal with tourism are not clear what a rural household is, so we did not clarify that, or you in the ministry, it is not clear what a peasant household is, so we do not understand it properly, but it seems to me that the original intensity was that the peasant household is what it should be, it is a family venture whose main features are that people who do some kind of production on their family household there, this surplus and offers can also be offered for tourist purposes. I don't know how small the families today are, today's families are very small as I understand it, and one family can properly serve or serve 50 at one point as is before any guest who comes in that day to his peasant household. And you move that number to 80, it's obvious that you've come to the knowledge that the families have grown up, that sometimes, that they have five, six children now, and then they all live together and their daughters-in-laws and I don't know who, and then I can meet this basic need that, that I understand what it's supposed to be, that it should be. Of course, in this way, when you expand the possibility of serving or serving more people in one day, in one hour, that way of course you need to hire someone, but it's not a family household anymore, so it's something else. And there are also appropriate provisions in the laws of the Republic of Croatia for this, which means that then companies can register and I don't know what not, which would then be engaged in such a single activity. You also felt that it was necessary for persons who did not own the property or land, meaning persons who did not own the property or land, not have their own house, but have rented it as much as possible, that they can also deal with rural households, I will speak so briefly we understand each other better. Agricultural land can be rented in the Republic of Croatia, which can be rented, can be unprocessed. You didn't say here whether at that unprocessed, if I, who've never done it, rented it, opened my own house and served my own house, and I don't sell my own grapes, not my apples, not my sausages, not my own wine, you've also classified it as family. I think it would be more appropriate for people who live out of it to be owners of that land, to be owners of that house, and that these families, too, would then actually be qualified as a family household who would then offer their excess of their products and tourists who would thus have a different offer that would probably satisfy them. But you're still here when you talk about peasant households, then you've listed everything that these households should do and produce. Strong alcoholic beverages, low alcoholic beverages, I don't know figs, plums, apples there. Here, it might be good for people who do more and more quality olives and olive oil to maybe set them up and say that olives and olive oil can also be served in that peasant household. And now, of course, as I was saying, one unnecessary item we've been fighting for years and we can't possibly put an end to it, inspection surveillance. Now, you have now decided in the middle of the season that it is possible for inspection to be such that due to a marginal, perhaps marginal, perhaps for me, perhaps for you a non-limiting, extension of working time to one, by oral order means, an oral order can be used to seal such an object if you do not adhere to the working time provision for 30 days. It will be convenient to see in the tourist season now that we all invite guests to come to us, so when we say 10 minutes after a certain working time in one catering facility, of course the inspector will come and seal the facility. It will be a wonderful message that we are a tourist country, but in 10 minutes we seal it for 30 days. And I'm not a lawyer, so I don't understand that very much, but that punishment is oral. So, Inspector, no, under the Law of Infractions, but some other inspector orally says you're wrong, you need to be sealed and shut down. Not even the owner, but the employee who doesn't care, doesn't feel like it's his property if he just works there. I think it's quite a suspicious category when someone punishes you orally, and you can't take that punishment or whatever you can't complain about. It would be appropriate that under the Law of Infringements, which only a court can decide on a safeguard measure, and then you can in some way justify yourself, that it may be necessary for that one oral provision that is very easy to use or that I would say so in this tourist season, when you have already given such an opportunity and it will not be good for tourism, it will not be good if it is applied so strictly. Of course I am for order and work, but not like this. Not like this. Especially when for some others, too, more serious violations are envisaged in this law that may threaten and health, such as I don't know bad food or I don't know what, are not scheduled to fish within 30 days, but then you're notified in writing and then you go to court and then you show there and prove whether you're right or wrong. So, because of those who forgot about the camps and those that these camps still work this season, we will support this law. But don't put us in a law that should only contain such changes in the middle of the tourist season. You had a chance last year, when we changed that law, read it well, consult well, and then change something in such a way that then the peasant households can be anything and all and this oral punishment that seems inappropriate to me and that in the middle of the tourist season they can only have negative consequences, and they won't bring us into some big order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55263	Thank you. It is next to the HNS-HSU club, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55264	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I'd like to start by saying that the HNS and HSU club will support this bill. In fact, we are starting from one principle, which is that tourism as one of the most important economic branches and catering as a backbone of tourist offer can and must be considered a particular interest where it must meet almost all the usual but also those that are innovative forms of tourist and catering offer, as well as free entrepreneurship in the field of hospitality and tourism that will help in the long term development of the Republic of Croatia, especially in areas which are not sufficiently touristly valorised, but also in the hinterland of highly developed tourist zones. We remember, in the late '90s, when the Republic of Croatia entered the process of categorizing and sorting catering facilities and set itself incredibly high criteria that she later paid dearly. Namely, our competition in other Mediterranean countries was not so strict in setting criteria for classification and categorization, so it happened that our catering workers, above all hotelers, when they went out to the market with an offer that was actually based on the categorization of a very rigorous one at the time, were very strict because the Spanish, Greeks, Turks, Tunisians and other competitors, including the Italians, came with a story of the same category with much more favourable prices. The secret was simply that we raised more criteria for the categorization of catering facilities by 2 charts and we actually brought ourselves at one point into the situation that there were no single 5-star hotels on the entire Adriatic coast, and that hotels with 4 stars could count on the fingers of one hand. Of course the situation is getting better. In the meantime, we have made two adjustments to these criteria and not because we want to bring down the quality of our own offer and bring it into line with the prices, but because we want to see realistically what international practice is. In this sense, I think it has been much more serious to approach the development of tourism capacities and in a way to view zone development and where we are still very, very deficiting, it is a matter of congress tourism, but it is also a question of rural tourism that serves the entire diapazon of extra-pansion forms of tourist offer. The fact is also that apart from Istria and only part-time parts of central Croatia. Other areas in the Republic of Croatia have failed to develop a system of tourist peasant economies. We have no comparison with our neighbours, especially Slovenia, which has gone far, far ahead of us, nor do we have the kind of quality and capacity allocation that some Central European countries, so when we look from their rakurs, are Slovenia's rights, and then Austria, collect huge revenues from hospitality and tourism. That definitely can't be solved simply by standardisation. It is certainly important that more liberal approaches be made to certain solutions, so in this sense we welcome the changes and additions in this law, which increase certain limits so far set to serve the number of guests in rural tourism economies, rather than, above all, one defined development policy that will valorise those parts of Croatia that cannot count on highly developed tourism facilities primarily in the high season. All our regions can definitely boast of the quality of indigenous food production and thank God that's the case, because we are considered a country that is not yet polluted with genetically modified food. We are still considered a country that can offer quality locally produced different types of food, drinks. In this regard, it is necessary to prepare for the entry into the European Union, therefore to preserve all these products that we can produce locally, to preserve their indigenousity and quality, because if we are not able to produce enough to export these products primarily to the European Union market, or if quotas or situations on the market do not allow it, then it is perfectly normal for the state to encourage the production and sale of these products locally, because that is the secret for which tourism is considered to be an export activity. So instead of the goods crossing the border, actually the consummations of these goods cross the border towards us and here consume the service, regardless of the accommodation, diet and other forms of extra-pansion consumption. In this respect, it is also justified that tourism is considered an export activity. The fact is, therefore, that we have not developed enough a network of winemakers, that we have not developed enough a network of wine roads, that we have not developed enough a network of rural economies that are able to serve both catering needs and for hikers, therefore also for domestic guests, but also for tourist groups, above all, from those parts of Croatia where there is a slightly higher concentration of accommodation facilities first of all along the coast. We cannot say that we have nothing, but we can say that we are extremely dissatisfied with the situation in Dalmatia, but also in this move from Rijeka to Zagreb, and also in the southern parts of the area and through Turopolje, Vukomeric Gorica and all the way to Prigorje. Something better is certainly an offer in the area of Međimurje County and something small and in Varazdinska, but it is extremely insufficient. Therefore, we warn that the liberalisation of the conditions for maintaining and implementing catering services in rural economies is not sufficient to take measures to systematically and meaningfully, but above all, in a way that will preserve and promote local traditions and customs, extend that type of offer and increase offers to create natural and demand. Because we know that the golden rule of marketing sometimes is not only to offer what the customer is looking for, but to create its needs so that you can place your product. The second thing we would certainly like to do here is point out a provision allowing the International Cultural Centre Grožnjan, as well as museums to provide catering services in their premises and premises within their working hours. The fact is that the International Centre for Croatian Music Youth is one of the most reference places "genesis musical" as a world system that has existed and worked successfully for 45 years. And it is not too much to say that thanks to the efforts of the Croatian music youth, it should be said that she has always had the support of the Ministry of Culture which has great understanding of the needs of this system of promoting music culture, so in these 45 years she has contributed directly to the fact that Grožnjan can be considered today the oldest old town in Istria with Rovinj. Because the threat that was abandoned was practically a city, that is, where the population was completely devastated after World War II which, by going to the Italians, made it possible, by industrializing and going people to cities, to restore the city, to save its most ambitious values and to restore it in a way that will bring back life, which will bring back the soul, and in this case culture in Grožnjan. After the musicians Grožnjan, of course the raids and the artisans. Today we can say that Grožnjan is as such a specific person and probably one of the most beautiful places in the territory of the Republic of Croatia because of this artistic spirit that is constantly being ruled we would say from spring to late autumn, thanks to all those who come to the international workshops run by the world's most embossed music pedagogues, but also thanks to all those pregoctors who have developed very important jazz programs, jazz workshops and jazz schools in Grožnjan and also, especially in the last two or three decades, thanks to all the efforts made by the artists to make Grožnjan a place and art culture, but let's not forget the multimedia culture and place of this promotion of film and film activities. That is why it is perfectly normal for us to open up such opportunities, that those who are engaged in the maintenance of such programs in Grožnjan, and are not formally no commercial companies, nor hotels, nor are they engaged in catering activities as their basics, so that they can provide the most normal elemental food and accommodation services to their membership or membership from the Genesis Musical system, so to the world system when it comes to international workshops in Grožnjan, so that this service can be provided there. We also believe that it is good that the Ministry of Tourism, supported by the Ministry of Culture, understands the need for new concepts of museum institutions. Of course, not every museum can take advantage of this possibility now in the draft of this law because there are no technical, spatial, or other conditions. But those who have it and who can get it are perfectly normal for all those who come as guests, as visitors to the museum, and we know that the world's museums are vastly expanding in their offer and for the sale of souvenirs and for the provision of elementary catering services because today's visitor to the contemporary museum spends more than half a day. In that sense, it is certainly good to make that distinction between museums as those who do not really provide a classic catering service, but should also enable those who would possibly abuse it. In this respect, we welcome the liberalisation of the terms and conditions and we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55265	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, distinguished representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The role of the country in valorising market opportunities and promoting tourism development is large and inevitable in all countries that have developed tourism and have sought to strengthen their position in tourist markets. The main task of the country is to ensure a favourable environment and environment, within the framework of different measures and instruments of the whole policy, that promotes the development of tourism. There is no doubt that tourism can become one of the main drivers of development in almost the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Each region must focus on the development of such a tourist offer that will have the greatest impact on the growth of gross domestic product and employment that are attractive to investors, tourist workers, caterers and tourists themselves. Starting from the fact that Croatia has placed itself in the order of developed tourism countries of Europe, thanks to its beauty of nature, landscapes, conservation of the environment and generally attractiveness of the ambience, and given that tourism itself is not a purpose and goal as a fundamental strategic goal of further development of tourism in Croatia, it could be argued that the aim of improving and raising the quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia is to improve the quality of life. In order to achieve such a development goal, it is necessary in all segments of tourism activity, and I think in this case of catering activity, therefore it is necessary to create preconditions that will promote development, culture and attractiveness of catering activity. Subject changes and additions to the Household Activity Act after reviewing the existing water law to create such normative conditions which will, with clearly laid down rules, encourage the development of catering activities and enable compliance with the prescribed provisions. However, certain shortcomings and failures of the law so far have been observed, and it has been found among other things that a small number of camps have carried out compliance with the law in the categorisation segment, minimum technical conditions and categorisation of camp accommodation facilities. This is why these amendments and additions are proposed for two years to extend the deadline for harmonisation and we believe that these two years will be enough to do so. It is known that a large number of camps due to unresolved property-legal relations on land were not able to produce the necessary documentation to carry out their activities. It is therefore necessary to extend the deadline for implementation of the harmonisation in order to avoid possible major economic damage. In addition, the occurrence of illegal advertising and the provision of catering services for which amendments and additions concerned are prescribed and fines. The HSS Club also supports provisions that allow museums to carry out catering activities in their business premises and premises in order to enrich the catering offer, of course in the function of tourism development, within their working hours. In addition, we are of the opinion that the incentive effect will also have provisions relating to applicants for a solution for the provision of catering services in rural households. According to the proposal in question, the applicant will no longer have to be the owner of the facility or land on which the catering services will be provided, but he can only have the right to use certain properties. We appreciate such a provision more than good and welcome because it is the best time to activate so-called tourism. Green Croatia as far as possible by encouraging legal norms, respecting the fact that only 262 rural households are registered in Croatia, and our potentials are significantly higher, it is obvious that the current legal norm was not motivated. In moments of economic crisis, job blackouts and high demand for them, this is one of the good measures that can revive the sleeping green Croatia by attracting entrepreneurs, valuable and creative people in these parts. We also positively assess Article 7 of amending and supplementing the laws amending Article 38 of the existing law and consider that the proposed changes are in line with real and real conditions, taking care of meals and drinks that can be served in the rural household, the number of possible guests that have been increased from 50 to 80. Paragraph 3 of the article states that in exceptional situations when organising appropriate traditional celebrations and events, the number of guests is not strictly defined or may be more than 80, which provides the rural household with the possibility of serving the number of guests suitable for their capacity and opportunities. If obvious needs are respected, and in such a way that we respect these legal proposals, I think we are all aware that we can expect adequate results. Real normative regulation creates conditions for successful business in tourist activity, which is also the ultimate goal of these amendments and the addition of laws. The amendments are also welcome in Article 9 amending Article 40 of the existing law, because the precise procedure is prescribed in the situation where certain irregularities in the conduct of inspection controls are identified. The amount of penalties, liability holders for certain actions, cash amounts for prescribed penalties and deadlines shall also be determined. Finally, the HSS club supports the amendments and additions to the Law on Hosting Activity, believing that it provides positive solutions to certain shortcomings in the existing law. We believe that the proposed will contribute to curbing the grey economy, create better conditions for tourism development in the Republic of Croatia, contribute to strengthening tourism potential and enriching the tourist offer. Because for the quality prosperity of the tourism sector there must also be a unique vision of development with countless different possibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55267	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the club debate. Now we're going to break up and we're going to continue at 3:00 and the first in a single debate is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Thank you very much. ... after the afternoon session. [[Specially enabled.]] An individual debate, the esteemed representative Nevenka Marinovic. She's gone. He's losing his right. There he is. I'm begging you, for three hours and six minutes we're going in here in the hall to begin the debate. That goes for the government's representative. We said three o'clock start and please hold on to that. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55269	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's the thematic session was under way, so I apologize for the delay. I have a thematic session of the Agriculture Committee. There are several reasons here for changing this law, but I'm going to try to point out some. Thus, by monitoring the implementation of the Household Activity Act in practice, it was found that only 45 campsites from the total number of camps which were now running out at the beginning of the 7th month for harmonisation were required to comply with the law, that they did so means only 45 of them. The proposal therefore proposes to extend the deadline for compliance with the law, for carrying out activities by two years, meaning in the camps to be categorised. The compliance obligation applies to those camps which did not come into force until the law came into force of the categorisation solutions in accordance with the Regulation on classification, minimum conditions and categorisation of camp accommodation facilities from groups of camps and other types of accommodation facilities. A large number of camps mainly due to unresolved property relations on land managed have not been able to produce all necessary documentation within the specified deadline, so I support the extension of the deadline, but here is only reason to reduce possible economic damage to tourism. I believe that it is necessary to help these tourist workers who deal with this kind of tourism to categorize their accommodation facilities in camps as soon as possible or simplify the procedure or some other kind of help. Due to the enriching and diversity of the catering offer, it is proposed to introduce specific standards and quality codes for certain types of catering facilities from a group of campsites and other types of catering facilities for accommodation, restaurants and bars, and to enriching the tourist offer in rural areas, and here I will just point out that over 90% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia does exactly this rural area, it is proposed to increase the number of guests who can at the same time provide certain services in rural households, raised from the current 50 to 80. In order to provide catering services in such households, the novelty is not necessarily the owner of the facility and/or the land on which the catering services will be provided, but may be the person who has the right to use the facility or land. Here's the model being introduced to motivate people to deal with rural tourism, so far it's just here we heard from the opening presentation of the secretary of state only 262 peasant households, providing services means tourism in rural households. I believe that this is a good change, because the Republic of Croatia has huge untapped potential for the development of rural tourism, and its importance is reflected in the very important interaction of agricultural production, the production of traditional products, the presentation of tradition, traditional gastronomy, and tourism services, in one word using already existing resources. But not just any development of rural tourism, but based on sustainable development simply not on the harm of future generations. This means revitalization, meaning the already existing traditional building, or heritage to which one new purpose is given, it is touristic. A more complete renovation, means valorisation and protection of tourism potentials, and the creation of an integrated tourist product are related to the implementation of the revitalisation programme with the development and branding of a tourist rural destination, and rural tourism, especially tourism in rural economies, must be seen as an essential component of overall sustainable development. Although rural tourism has so far not been particularly important in the Republic of Croatia, given the importance it has in creating new values in rural areas, there has been interest in both countries and local communities and regional and local self-government and individual entrepreneurs and institutions for the development and promotion of this activity. I will remind you that in 2008 a declaration on rural tourism was signed in Benkovac, that many or most Croatian counties, cities and municipalities and institutions are signatories. Here I expect that this amendment of the Household Activity Act, in particular Article 38a and Article 38a, create a better prerequisite for the greater interest of peasant households, for the pursuit of tourism, but also for the easier realization of their projects. I believe that good changes are related to improving the efficiency of inspection supervision, and reducing the grey economy, which is here before the tourist season is extremely strong and important. Here are the reasons why I'm going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55270	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55271	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I want to join those who support these amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act. We heard the main reasons. In any event, compliance with the law, i.e. extending the existing period by 2 years in order to comply with the law. I would say it again on this occasion, Mr. Secretary of State, I know it's not coming from your ministry, but the possibility of rushing the Law on Tourist Land because I'm sure if we could pass the Law on Tourism Land to solve this problem too. We are irrevocably losing money that we do not charge rent because we know that all these camps that are spoken of here are mostly located on state and part on private land. The very fact that only 45 camps in Croatia have solved this problem and there are the necessary permits that we must do something about it. It doesn't mean that if we postpone it for two years, it's going to get rid of itself if we don't do something in other laws. So, I want to say that I support this, that property-legal relations should be resolved on that land and that this tourist potential that we have in tourist building land should be valorised as soon as possible. The second reason is also related to standards, quality, quality markings relating to restaurants, bars and camps and other types of catering facilities where I also support the improvement of these standards as you state here, and when it comes to rural or so on. rural tourism where you state the reason from 50 to 80 guests related to the provision of individual catering services in view of the progress of technology, the increase of bus seats, etc., I also support this liberalisation so that the rural household can provide a service to a larger number of guests. And I also support the part where you say that it is not necessary to own an object or land on which catering services will be provided. What we talked about on the Committee on Tourism were some remarks that made this possible for those who are engaged in rural tourism, and it is not possible for those who are private renters. I understand that this would be difficult to reconcile, but I'm sure there's room to think about when we're passing a new law and about this. What makes rural tourism more advantageous than those involved in renting rooms? So they should too see why they are unable to resolve their property-legal status. We know that there are only 262 rural households in Croatia legal and I am sure that this is a good contribution to motivate people in rural areas to deal with tourism. What I particularly want to welcome is this provision concerning museums. I believe that museums can sometimes be really difficult only from tickets charged by tourists and other citizens to finance it so that all the world's museums can carry out catering activities within the working time of the museum and I think this is a good step and I believe that in this sense everyone will welcome this. In the part of strengthening the powers of economic inspectors, I also welcome it because sometimes it is really difficult to act under current law, and sometimes very fast action is needed, given that it is a tourist season. It's often about the night hours, the length of working hours, and in this way I believe that the grey economy in this area will be significantly reduced. So, I support the strengthening of the powers of economic inspectors and these proposed amendments to the criminal provisions of the law, and we heard from you this morning in your original statement that you previously aligned all these provisions with professional associations and with the institutions that should carry out these activities, and I believe that you have also agreed to these provisions. In any case, I welcome all these changes that you are announcing here and liberalisation that will certainly give some results for this tourist season. To avoid being overly repeated, I imitate the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Activity Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55272	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There are several reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act. I would've singled out four right here. The first reason is that a large number of camps within the deadline, so by 9 July 2010, did not comply with the Law on hospitality and tourism activities, and what is necessary to do because the campsites are a large and significant part of our tourist offer. So I keep this deadline justified to extend to two years, and I hope within that time limit that it will be brought into line. Another reason is to prevent illegal advertising, i.e. advertising of catering services, which will reduce the possibility of developing a gray economy, which is very, very important for the economy. The third reason is to enrich the tourist offer in rural or rural areas where the possibility of providing services to rural households is increasing. Where you can now increase the number of excursion guests to 80 at the same time. It is also regulated to serve food and drinks from its own production that has the characteristics and characteristics of the region. Furthermore, the possibility of accommodation in rooms, apartments and rural houses is increasing up to 80 people. The conditions under which these services are provided are regulated by a whole series of articles of this law which do not now have to be specifically stated. The fourth and very important reason, a very important reason is to improve the effectiveness of inspection surveillance. That way... The grey economy in this activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A series of articles regulates the punishment of physical and legal services, ranging from 1,000 to 100,000 kuna. The economic inspectorate does indeed have great powers and, when the controls are carried out, it has the ability to react very effectively to all observed irregularities. I would now just draw attention to the secretary of state and one situation that might be regulated by this law, and perhaps some other, which the local self-government units encounter when they collect their incomes, primarily from the rent and the utility fee. Namely, catering facilities, therefore catering facilities, and also shops and the like, do business and provide services even though their accounts are blocked. Those in the account when you block them have no money or their account is even shut down. However, they remain neatly open in order to provide their services. I don't know how that's possible. Is that possible? I think the conclusion here is that it's only a matter of state compliance, so they're not hit by this inspectorate, while units of local self-government are powerless because they don't have these mechanisms to sanction them. I think it would be necessary to do something about it, and otherwise these amendments and amendments to the law are very effective and welcome. And in that sense, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55274	Thank you. And the last individual debate, the distinguished representative, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At first, let me say right away that I support the adoption of this law. By having one principled objection to this law, which all other laws that are often passed in the form of amendments and amendments to the law, never ultimately understand what is in the law, because of the basic law and one amendment, the second amendment, the third amendment, it is difficult for those who apply it. And that's why I'm proposing it would be good to make one final integral text of that law because we're bringing ourselves to it. Because... in addition there are only lawyers who get along, and not those others who apply the laws in their business. So, I absolutely support the explanation that's been presented, which is why it's all done together. I'm asking a few questions or a few suggestions that would be worth discussing, which I can also propose in the form of an amendment. My personal experiences around the space of Krka waterfalls show that rural economies and households are growing higher and more present in space, that they are doing well, that their services are very good, that their prices are very acceptable and that they have one very original offer compared to the guests who come from around the world. There are several ambiguities in the law relating to the use of language, so it may turn out to be some negligence such as the question if there are only 40 camps out of I don't know how many total camps provided the conditions for obtaining work permits, whether it is neglect of those who have or are too short to meet the requirements required, so it would be good to analyse. Because the date that's set here on July 9th is in 10 days, so it's not gonna believe that this number could change for some significant larger number. Now, by analysing everything in the text of the law written and stated, I would go in a certain order to draw attention to certain things. For example. Article 3a states that it is prohibited, not indirectly and indirectly, through public texts and the Internet, to advertise or advertise such promotional services or facilities where such services are provided without meeting the conditions laid down in this law for the provision of such services. Of course, no one can do that unless it's registered for that activity. So someone who advertises does something that's not right. In Article 3, it states of certain types of catering facilities from groups of hotels. Are the species of this species known, are they famous? Because from this menu that would apply this law by designing some objects, it's not clear what it's about. And I think the term is restaurants and bars, bars continue on something, bars by themselves, restaurants can be interpreted in several ways, and bars don't know what they're talking about. Are these the places where it's being poured, are they the drinking shops or are they disco bars? So termological bars aren't clear enough to apply. Next, I could say next. Grožnjan is particularly prominent because it exists. It is specifically stated in the law and it has been given that status as one of the few I think cases in the legislation that one specific location, one concrete activity in the law mentions. What if there is something else like Grožnjan whether the law will be fulfilled or Grožnjan is taken as an illustration of the possibilities for preparation? Something that's a little clumsy in the text, and I'd like you to change that. It's in the explanation on page 1. Due to the enriched tourist offer in the rural area, it is proposed to increase the number of guests, hikers who can provide individual catering services at the same time. Practically, it is proposed to increase the right to the capacity to have, and not to suggest to increase the number of hikers, because the number of hikers cannot be affected, but to host the number of hikers anyway. I'm saying it's one language awkwardness. The economic inspectors have already proven themselves to be very good. Here closes locals, which many attack to close during the tourist season, which, of course, is not good. But it's worse than the fact that these joints aren't arranged and that they don't do business the way they're supposed to do business. Thus, it could not have closed them until they started working in such a way. So the attention you give to the economic inspectors, I think it's very important. I don't think it's important that he owns an economic rural household, because in many cases the owners don't deal with it, but they do give it to someone. Therefore, we also have in the books land ownership and land possession or land use. We even have that instrument to get a building permit. Therefore, I do not think the owner would only have the right to do so, but someone to whom the owner delegates that right by giving him the right to use that land. As I think the peasant household must not only be tied to one plot, especially since in our circumstances these parcels are relatively small, but would talk about the total size of the economy that I am dealing with, no matter how widespread it is, as we have said, that three hectares can be built 200 square meters of an economic facility to stimulate, but provided that this economy is registered and registered, and someone's cottage on the ground it has. But still whether it's one plot of three acres or more. In the same sense, when we talk about peasant households, I don't know why certain restrictions are being imposed that they don't have, there's no reason to set them up. So I would in principle set a limit in terms of what I do not allow, not what I allow. Because you're simply not able to think about what anyone will think of to be able to provide for themselves. For example, it's about pouring wine and liquor. Why aren't you talking about pouring beer? There's a lot of experience especially abroad where there are little brewers that work. Why can't we pour beer, why can't we just pour wine, brandy and stuff? And which is why the number of 80 guests is not clear to me because the more guests are produced, the more charges are charged, the more money is in traffic, the better the budget is filled. I don't know why it's 80. But if it's limited, then it has to be limited to what's logical to organize the trip, and then it's buses. If it's limited to 80 then it's not full of two buses, and necessarily two buses because on average you have a normal bus of 50 people most often to be economical. In offerings like I said beer, why don't we offer tea, various kinds of preparations, why don't we oil from olives or hoods from Quasina, why just limit it to something. The apartment is a term that should be harmonised with other legislation, here is used why 20 accommodation units are 60 guests. It means automatism to count each apartment for three beds. The apartments have multiple beds, and it can be a studio apartment which is also called an apartment that is only for two people. So pull the parallel with the Regulation on the categorization of objects would be necessary for this as well. And language would never use the usual in this area, but typical in the area, because something that's common doesn't have to be typical in that area at all, and something that's typical doesn't have to be common. So let's go after the team to do something indigenous, and that's typical in that area. The language is generally quite bad in the legislation, just as the term rural house is practically talking about a house in the country. The rural house as a category in architectural terms does not exist. So the idea is good that it's a country house, so it has some attributes of rural architecture but it's a rural house. It's the same as the urban house. You know, then I don't think it's a proper form. The minimum conditions for the type and category and the Minister shall, by means of a regulation, determine why not the capacities and finally all those facilities providing services must meet minimum requirements as any other catering facility. Therefore, there is no need for specific excuses for this rather than for any other catering facility, and as one general framework, there can be shown the ability to provide such and such services. And in doing so, they wouldn't discriminate if only public institutions could provide drinking services, museums and... Because there are already private museums, private galleries, private zoos, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55276	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55277	Because it's kind of discrimination. Thank you. I'll stop right now, obedient. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55278	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Dear Ivo Mujo, State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am going to try briefly or as far as it's possible to look back in the end. I can see that perhaps, or the next time we're working, we'll maybe include some of them in the joint team to work because even if we're really involved in making this one, one commission that in a long time analyzed the specific problems and specificities of certain areas, then we include it and shape it in these changes of the law, and we don't go in or we don't rudely violate some other systems within the sector, let's say. So, I would like to thank all of you for your support and understanding because almost all or everyone's debate has given support to these changes. It is clear that here is your support, and your debate is focused on the goal and understanding of this issue, and we are simply pleased that we, in the Ministry, a document brought by the Government, is a document that you also accept as parliamentary representatives, and I believe that it will have concrete and clear effects. I'll just point out here because there was controversy whether it was on time or not. Therefore, the amendments defined by these amendments and the amendments to the laws are necessary and timely. I don't accept the finding that they're not timely or that they're at the wrong time. These are timely changes and were necessary. We believe that these amendments to the law will increase the quality of the tourism sector and that it will contribute to the remnant of young families in the country through this dimension of rural tourism. And I would like, before I look back, to tell those who were critical of certain elements of these amendments and the addition of the law, to read the law as a whole, the original law, to read the Ministry's regulation in preparation for exposure, and then a lot of those dilemmas and dubiosiss that were set up here, and who were wondering if there would be anything wrong with these amendments and additions, to see that in the laws that are in force, in the rules that are in force are defined and clear all the things that have been asked here as a question. And now I'm going to go through, if you'll excuse me, these questions. So, regarding the camps clearly that the ministry followed, but that we did not want to intervene prematurely in amending and supplementing the law, in the extension of the deadline because we held and wanted as many camps as possible to resolve their property-legal issues and obtain valid solutions. And that's not the point, so we're aware that there was no speech about the camp owners, but the biggest number of problems related to outstanding property-legal issues that will be resolved by the Tourism Land Act. What is also clearly defined in the original law and in the rules that we adopt, which are in force in the ministry, there is no fear that tomorrow will be the anger of people who have nothing to do with the Croatian village, agricultural production, and that they will suddenly, after these changes and supplement, be angry with the competition of the caterers because they will now be engaged in catering through the form of rural tourism, endanger the caterers. No, that is not true because the rules and the law clearly define that holders of family agricultural holdings who are clearly prescribed a number of agricultural production structures, only they can get a solution to rural tourism. Also, as I do not accept here the fact that perhaps some danger could bring about the fact that space users can deal with tourism in the country, especially a team more if we know that the largest number of objects, whether it is tasters and accommodation facilities or other facilities in the rural area, are objects of old, traditional origin that are very often burdened with property-legal issues and problems. To get rid of them takes a few years, and this we allow the real owners of the house, so the users of that house, the people who live in their house where they want to open the rehearsal, can handle it with catastra confirmation. And by the time they settle their property-law issues with their relatives, they'll be gone for a few years. But the truth is that we also open up the possibility for those who are really engaged in agriculture, who have a rented land so that they can also hire indigenous, original or traditional objects, and that's where they deal with rural tourism. Why not, there should be more of them. I'll answer to an esteemed representative. The questioning may have confused some of you why we give a special category of quality for a group of bars. However, because most of us under bars consider objects that are really bars. However, according to the rules that are in force in the group, bars are also delicious and therefore we gave to the bars, because very often these tasters will be tasters of indigenous products or specific products. That's why we turned on the bars. I'm also going to have two more short answers because they were specific and clear questions about Grožnjan. Yes, it is true that there is explicitly one association, or event, that stands out here by law. But the original law also particularly emphasises that the red, Croatian Red Cross can deal with this activity, that the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service can deal with this activity and then we are here as an association which has been singled out of particular interest and we have specifically defined that there is also one that can be dealt with because it has a long tradition of 40 years. Because it is important for the development of tourism in that part and not only tourism but also cultural activities, so we gave them the right, or we gave them the right to have a special place in the law. We're talking wine and similar products. We don't mention beer, we don't mention olive oil, but there are definitions and things like that, so we think that's it. Maybe I'm from the south, I'd prefer there's olive oil, but we're not going to intervene here right now. Because in this broad sense, that's what's involved. And I will just point out to you that after the adoption of this law we will also go to the harmonisation and rules on rural tourism when we talk about issues of rural tourism where this liberalisation that is defined by law will be monitored and where we will especially coordinate some of the elements and allow certain liberalisation in order for our new entrepreneurs in this area to be competitive and could be simpler, faster and more quality to start a new job. Here's my thanks for the debate, and if it's necessary, I'm still here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55280	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55281	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 557. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 100 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against, along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55282	We move to the third item of the agenda, which is - Final bill on amendments to the Law on support for job conservation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 549 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Economic Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? I see he's already prepared. Yeah? Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The Act on Support for Preserve Jobs published and entered into force on 1 August 2009 did not deliver the expected results, since the support could not be used by employers in the labour-intense sectors of the processing industry who pay the minimum wage to workers, and which the reduction of working time cannot be reduced to a net amount of payout because this would entail a transition from full-time to part-time, as well as employers who have outstanding debts towards public revenues. Therefore, these amendments propose to enable the delivery of support and to those employers who have outstanding debts towards public revenues if the public administration authority has authorised them to postpone their debt and to allow them to make changes in the level of support to workers who pay minimum wage in labour-intensive branches. This is because, according to this proposal, the support would be granted and paid at the level of the total difference in net wages and contributions from and on gross wages, and workers would make full-time wages, as well as before the reduction of working time. In this respect, it would not be necessary to amend the individual contracts for work contracted to be paid. At the same time, it is proposed to enable employers to use a more flexible way of reducing working time which does not have to be distributed equally in days, weeks and months. The funds, which will be needed for the implementation of the proposed law by the end of 2010, are estimated at a total of five million kunas, are already secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at the positions of the Croatian Employment Service. It is also proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure based on the provision of Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is particularly justified by state reasons, i.e. allowing as many employers as possible to maintain as many jobs as possible in terms of the economic crisis and its impact on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. Your Honor, at the same time, I would like to inform you that the legislator of this law accepts the amendments of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55284	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So before us is the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Support for Preserve Jobs. The reason for this law is worth remembering when we passed this law, and how this law is presented to the public, and then it's time to repeat here in public with the parliamentary pay phone that's the effect of that law so far. The law came into force in August last year. It was adopted as well as presented in public as one of the most important economic measures at the time that the government sought to respond to the growing economic crisis in Croatia. I remind you then, then, the secretary of state who explained the bill's proposal provided information that for this purpose last year, 200 million kuna was allocated and foreseen in the state budget, only about 127 million from the Croatian Employment Service, and I will remind you that it was from those funds that were received on the basis of the reduction of unemployment benefits. So this law, when we passed, was tied together with the Law on the reduction of unemployment benefits, where it is clearly stated both in one law and in another which was in fact I would say Croatian rarity, remained until today that those who were unemployed should be the ones who would bear the burden of preserving jobs for the rest of the workers. So we were the only ones and we were the rest of them today. I would also like to remind that the secretary of state said, among other things, that it would preserve the jobs of our workers, and that it would prevent the effect that would happen if workers came to the register of the Croatian Employment Service and that it would be a much greater burden, that as I said, 200 million kunas for that purpose were provided, so for those few months 200 million kuna, because this was seen in the debates, it was expected that some 250 thousand jobs would be preserved in this way, and that the moment with full employment would be welcomed in Croatia when economic activity was restarted. We at the SDP club supported the bill then. We believe that basically the ideas and intentions of good, because it was based among other things and on reducing the working time of the employees, but then we said that we thought that it would have no effect, and we especially highlighted this burden problem that the benefits of the unemployed were reduced simultaneously. And what's happened, please, colleagues and colleagues in these underage years. In a year's time, I've been reading what's written in my proposal's assessment of the situation here. In that year, 69 public law presentations were held, which included about 600 representatives of social partners, i.e. employers, trade unions, workers and public and public services, and what was the result? The result is that during 2009, but I assume that this also applies to 2010, a total of 5 requests requested for support for 236 workers were granted 4 requests for 27 workers, for which a total of 47 thousand 324 kuna and 69 lira were paid. That's the effect of the law then passed. We can all agree that every job is important, that it is important for these 27 jobs, but please tell us about the completely missed policy on the one hand of the coalition government when it comes to the crisis, and on the other hand, I am asking myself what happened and where they went and what they've been redeployed to for 200 million kunas that were intended for this need. In the meantime, what we were warning the government ourselves was established, but at the time we did not want to listen, and we believe that it was absolutely unnecessary all year long, because laws were passed and laws were passed, and without the right analysis being made before that, without the real data being presented and determined before that. Now suddenly the government says there was one, why it was so little interest. It says one reason is that a large number of employers in the labour-intense industries pay workers minimum wage, which they cannot reduce by reducing their working time to a net amount of payout. On the other hand, a large number of employers in the processing industry are at the same time users of state aid for employment, which is why they cannot accumulate state aid at various sources based on legal gains in the area of state aid. Finally, a large number of employers cannot meet the criteria for granting support for reasons that or accumulate operating losses preceding 31 July 2008, or have a debt to fiscal and public revenues. My colleagues and colleagues, all of what has been presented to us here today in the light of the proposals for these amendments and the addition of the laws, you can find all of this in a phonogram from our August discussions, that is, July of last year, when we were not to be listened to and when this law was persistently pushed as something that is extremely important and extremely good and almost as one of the most important measures would be said. Today we have reduced it to the fact that by the end of this year we are expected to spend total on this purpose 5 million kuna, so last year we talked about 200 million kuna, now the same period is practically a few months, so we are talking about 5 million kunas that are secured in the positions of the Croatian Employment Office. Last year, let's remember in the last, or last year, how many of our unemployment rates have increased by over 80,000. So we think that we're actually passing laws that show up, which basically have a good intention, but their implementation, their implementation is actually catastrophic, or it's actually not possible to implement. With regard to what is now proposed, which is why support can now be obtained from this law by those employers who have outstanding obligations for public procurement under a special regulation, i.e. have a solution to the body of the state administration responsible for determining, monitoring and collecting public payments on the basis of public fees. This public spending is so essentially questionable, so whether the promoter said he would accept the Committee on Economy's initiatives will then be clarified in this way. However, the question that we are asking remains, how, who, in fact, will make a decision on these employers to whom these support will be paid? What rule? Is it provided for or has that Regulation been established whether or not this will be transparent in any way? Because if I'm not wrong about all the laws we've passed so far, which were about supporting employers, that procedure is done completely non-transparent because we're always told that the information about who gets the support can't be obtained because it's if nothing else is tax secret. It is said that this law will take effect on the day of its publication in "The People's News", it is followed by an emergency procedure, I guess we'll adopt it somewhere on Friday and say it will be valid by 31 December 2010. We at the SDP club are wondering what will be done in the next five months, and it hasn't been done in a whole year? Of course, the question arises as to how much it is, in fact, it is questionable that this part of the question is that support is paid for the preservation of jobs for those who have outstanding obligations with respect to workers because I remind them that the SDP club has long given in the procedure and proposed a law that will be criminalized, therefore punishing employers who do not pay salaries to their workers. We believe that, in this way and these changes, how one is now proposed is basically a good measure that some other countries have and have, in the vicinity, solved in a much more transparent and simpler and more efficient way, such as the neighbouring Slovenia, which is tens of thousands of jobs in this way, in the way that they have gone with lump sums towards employers, according to each job. So we believe that, we will support her to understand each other. We'll back her up and support her last time. We have had a lot of criticism because we have supported the law, but we are warning and we believe that neither with these changes nor with the additions of the effects will it be achieved because if nothing else is lost precious time. And the question might have been otherwise approached whether this number of unemployed who have accumulated over the last year would still be smaller and whether anything more than 200 million kuna from those 47,000 kunas spent would still have a much, much greater effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55286	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55287	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Absolutely, the IDS is the same club that will support this law, but as the government guards jobs, it may be the best example of the pulse "TECOP". Mr. Bubic knows very well what the situation is down there because I'm coming from Istria. The government promises 5m euros in Uljanika guarantee, which cannot be realised, wastes valuable time. People are on the streets instead of machines. And I'm really appealing, please, I don't know the godmother, let's try to realize and conclude that problem. If the government finds money for the Vesnik, it is clear that it should because the Vesnik is also a state institution, then it must also at least enable the Oilman to realise this guarantee for the reason why a TECOP creates jobs and fills the state budget in its own way. Secondly, I said we will absolutely uphold this law. Why? Because it could be said soon if we don't have such mechanisms we'll be far, far worse. The first thing I'd like to say when we talk about preserving jobs where Croatia was in 2009, and let's not be confused with the fact that all the parameters in 2010 have deteriorated further. Last year's GDP dropped 5.8%. This year, this fall continues, for the first six months if I'm not wrong at 2.5%. Which will say that compared to 2008, this gross product is almost 9% smaller than it was then. Industrial production, watch out in 2009 was -9.2%, it continued to fall at 4 months this year by 9.6%. What they're going to say about almost 19%. The retail trade dropped 15.3% in 2009 and the drop is still 10% this year. The number of overnight tourists was relatively correct, all of which -1.4%, but that's why tourist net earnings fell by 1 billion euros. We talked about it this morning, 15.5%. This year I'm afraid it'll continue to fall. Unchargeable loans rose from 4.8% to 7.8% permanent. And what's certainly the worst is that the number of employees, you watch out in 2008 in this country, amounted to a million 544 thousand, and in 2009, a million 450 thousand. That'll say that we gentlemen lost 94 thousand jobs last year. Construction is down 18.3%, etc., etc. Where is Croatia in this half year? I told you, GDP continues to fall, industrial production is getting smaller, unemployment is growing, job loss continues. I said construction in the 4th month of this year is additionally down 18.4%, etc., etc. Budgetary revenues are getting smaller, the finance minister is afraid that in the 9th month he won't be able to pay off all pensions, and I ask him not to scare the citizens through such a form. If he can't, then he knows, then the ruling coalition knows what to do. Disband Parliament and go to early elections. It is interesting that at the same time in the European Union at the 4th month industrial production is growing by 9.6%, that their gross product is growing, that the European Union is definitely coming out of recession, and I am afraid that we are going to welcome the bottom around the Wazma, Easter 2011. The state sees how the burden is usually shifted to the weakest, these are the ones it has most on the poor, the workers, the small employers, the large permanently rising. This morning I only mentioned an example of this tourist land. 20 years from the state just tattoos. It gives them that they don't pay anyone, and now they're supposed to be taxing what we've succeeded in inheriting the grandfatherland, some barn, I don't know a few hundred yards or a hectare of agricultural land. We should pay taxes on that, and these will probably find something else that we could use from this country. Monopolies are subject to astronomical penalties outside. In Croatia, if this is determined by the person who is called pay only a litigation cost etc. And the problem is that in this country, we're really losing the criteria, and on the other hand, the country and the economy are literally on our knees. I'll quote Domagoj Milosevic. One of the entrepreneurs who, in one media, is now not quoting the title here, literally found "The profits of companies are 20% lower than in 2008, and the total loss of as much as 22 billion kuna. The net profit of the skinny $4.4 billion is even 73% less. Never worse. Although no one expected sensational results, business business data are simply devastating for the whole 2009." The total profit of the company is €26.4 billion, 20% lower than in 2008 the loss of as much as 22 billion almost 30% more than the year before. So the net profit of the skinny $4.4 billion is even 73% less. Losses have grown the most in sectors that have so far pushed gross products into the processing industry, trade, construction. Even more worrying is the decline of investment in new long-term assets. It is a weak comfort that 13% of the investment drop is less than in 2008 when it was 22.3%. In addition, fewer investors in the total number of entrepreneurs in the last 3 years fell from 36.3% to 28.2%. Domagoj Milosevic, director of the Pastor Group, says that it is no wonder that one who operates in the real sector knows very well how things are. They're dropping production, investments, exports, I'd even argue that it was a hoax before. It was cheap capital, part of it came to us, so something was being made, but it was all on a bad footing. And with such trade unions, which obviously do not see well, and Croatian capital will not only flee from Croatia abroad, etc. Okay, I don't think unions are a problem here. But that's it. There's got to be one thing that's going to change, that there's going to be a new government. It is certainly one thing that these last referendum signatures commit and the new power of the new government certainly wants to know whether a conversion review will be carried out and whether what the former prime minister today is speculating about bought an apartment in New York for 15 to 17 thousand dollars per square metre, and some journalists are already saying it was done a year or more ago. But let's let it go now. I'm going to say one more time, I don't agree with this employer that the unions are guilty, it doesn't stand. I agree with this other one. A thousand grudges can be made to them, but it's certainly not the unions' fault. The guilty may be a government, perhaps not perhaps but certainly a strong kuna. Politics, we will easily, as well as one arrogant entrepreneurial climate that is a product of certain time of conversion, privatisation, the decomposition of ex Yugoslavia, the management of public enterprises. But I'm sure it's a mean ominous thesis so that the unions can be guilty. As far as this law is concerned, let me quote Article 1 where it is said that "a employer who, in order to keep jobs, reduces the duration of full-time and, as full-time, determines the average working time of up to 32 hours a week, can use support at the level of the pay gap and contributions to workers' salaries before the time cut and after the reduction of working hours up to 20% of the total amount of pay", i.e. in box 2, it is said that before submitting a request for granting support that he will receive it if there are no outstanding public service obligations under a special regulation, that is to say, there are solutions from the body of the state administration responsible for determining the supervision, the payment of public debt in the delay, etc. Now that we see what happened to that economic incentive law, we see that at least 75% went to settle debts to tax administrations. We predicted it was what we were talking about. The state gave those 370 million kunas to de facto get them back. It is also clear aid to the economy, but Article 3(2) says "Provence that, before applying for support, that person should not have outstanding obligations for public procurement under a special regulation". If that is so few, who will eventually come into the situation that they will be able to use these funds. And if that same person means that he is not in such a situation, it is clear that he could contact the commercial bank and that he could get the necessary help. I repeat, so if the company has no outstanding obligations it will not ask for short working hours. Very difficult, in very exceptional situations, there may be that, but these problems will try to address the state before it can deal with commercial banks. Who's gonna look? It will require the modality of this law for those who come into trouble. It means under this law that workers will have fewer salaries inevitably, but that God is to at least preserve jobs. I know it's hard for those petty employers, maybe it's harder for them than the workers themselves, but you see in 2010, if I'm not wrong about these purposes, it costs 5 million kunas here, and then a man asks himself a question of who we can help with 5 million kunas. Or literally here is the assessment of the resources needed to pass the law on page 2 says the funds that will be necessary by the end of 2010 for the implementation of the proposed law, are estimated at a total of 5 million kuna and are already secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at the position of the Croatian Employment Institute, Chapter 50, Section 25, etc., etc. The same way a man asks himself the question of who the law helped in 2009. Here, in the assessment of the situation, it is literally said that for all the reasons described above and the basis of the Employment Support Act during 2009, a total of 5 applications were submitted, meaning 5 requests were submitted to which support was requested for a total of 236 workers of which 4 applications for 27 workers were so far paid for, for which a total of 47 thousand 324 kuna and 69 June were paid. 47.3 thousand kuna, that's where it stands. So once again to go back to what I was talking about, it's more unfortunately going to be worse than better, you don't need to lose hope clearly, but with these 5 million kunas and that's a commendable help to someone. It's hard to help except friends and acquaintances of the ministry. We are clearly in favour of the law, but once again I say the problem is much deeper. For the last seven years, we've been living probably beyond our means, doing nothing. In 2009, neither today nor today, I'm sorry in 2008, 2007 that it didn't happen in 2009, 2010, 2011, the captain left, unfortunately the same team left. The crew stayed the same on that ship and it doesn't promise to be any different. For the end of the last sentence, as the Government, I am sure, and must be solidarity with the Vesnik here in Zagreb, will also be solidarity with Tekopo in Pula. It's a company that has problems, but that can survive, and if it kneels behind it will be at least as many cooperatives as there are workers there and ultimately at a loss we'll all be the ones who are on the state budget from the country as a whole. So, Mr. Secretary of State, let the Tekop problem be solved once.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55288	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55289	I hope my colleague Cain said the lapus, but we have to correct the false assumption. Namely, he says some media speculate that the future prime minister bought an apartment in New York. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations, it's about the former prime minister, don't give God to the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55290	He didn't hear. ... He didn't hear. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Caine, have you heard now... What prime minister were you talking about? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55291	I didn't say future prime minister. I said former prime minister. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55292	Ms. Ivanka Roksandic, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. As with the first adoption of this law, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community discussed this Bill on Amendments to the Law on Support for Preserve Jobs, and we must say that, as with the first adoption of this Law, we will support the law because it is, above all, heard today from 1 August 2009, for the purpose of helping employers to reduce labour costs first, the second preserves most jobs, especially in those economic branches where the crisis felt the most, which are food, wood, textile, metal, construction and other industries. The law regulates the payment of support to employers with the aim of shortening full-time employment contracts instead of cancelling work contracts. one working time from the current 40 to 32 hours per week, or 20% decreases the weekly fund hours. Only those employers whose companies, companies, did not deal with the loss but with profits were entitled to support. The support consisted of two parts, which was, above all, 20% of the amount of contributions between old and new salaries, 10% of the difference between old and new salaries in net, and 13% for those workers who support the child. Let me remind you that all the social partners were unique in support of that law. Unfortunately, that law did not meet the required expectations. The employer's interest in using these aids was lacking. One of the reasons is that part of employers, especially those in the processing industry, pay minimum wage and, by reducing their working hours, they could not reduce the net wage amount because it would also mean switching from full time to part-time. Another reason is that part of employers are also users of other state aid for employment, so they cannot exploit and accumulate state support at various sources, and I can tell you that a large number of employers are using this particular employment support. The third reason is that a large number of employers cannot meet the criteria for granting support because they have accumulated business losses or have a debt to fiscal and public revenues. I think there's a lot of reasons why they didn't use this support. With all these reasons, I will remind you that those who could use these support had to develop a work-preservation programme, i.e. the programme of reducing working time and obtaining consent from either the working council or the union commissioner, or the Employment Office if these persons are not present in the company. In view of the fact that, as we have said in the introduction, the aim of this law has not been achieved, as no planned macroeconomic developments have been achieved, because the economic and financial crisis has further strengthened as it has affected the growth of unemployment. The government has decided to amend the criteria and conditions for granting post-preservation support to try to preserve employees through more favourable conditions. Therefore, it is also proposed to enable support to be made available to employers who have outstanding obligations, i.e. debts towards public revenue if they have reached an agreement, i.e. an agreement with the competent authorities for financial affairs, that they will settle the debt, or pay it back on a cost-effective basis. The change in the level of support also allows for the achievement of support and for employers who pay minimum wage to workers, and that is because this proposal will pay 20 % of the total wage difference from and on salary to gross, so that workers will be able to receive full pay with reduced working time. The employer will be able to shorten working hours by 20% on his own account. So, shortened working hours up to 32 hours a week during the period of support, which does not have to mean and be distributed equally in days, weeks or months, so they will determine the average reduced working time per week, which means that working hours will be able to be organised and that in one month they do not work all week. With these measures, the government is creating conditions for overcoming this crisis and therefore the law is in force until December 31st this year. The club will say in its introduction to support these positive measures that are certain, and we have heard this from my predecessors in the interests of workers and employers so that we will support this law and we hope that employers of this kind will see that they are welcome and start to use this truly commendable support and a proposal from the Government as another measure above all of the economic recovery and recovery of those companies that are most difficult in this crisis. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55294	Thank you. HNS representative club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55295	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is a law before us that we could call a law that does not serve anything, which has only one bomb name, or name, behind which there is no content. So, there's a July outside the door. This law will be passed if voted in July. The government has known for seven months that the Job Support Act was a complete failure. 7 months of the deepest possible crisis were meant to come here with three, four sentences of change to tell the public that there is a great deal of concern for the preservation of jobs, and in fact the truth is completely different. The government does not have any consistent job conservation programme at all, but it is either improvisation or worse, and it may even be possible to show that certain measures are safeguarding jobs while, in parallel, placing them in circulation measures aimed at reducing jobs. What is the second amendment to the Labour Act rather than just repealing the effects of such legal matter. At the beginning of this year, I asked Prime Minister Kosor's parliamentary question about the effects of this law. As soon as we got it, and we got a late answer that it's only 27 employees whose so-called. Friday, i.e. the fifth working day of the week, because if we spoke language that people understood it was a law that allowed the government to co-finance the fifth working week, the fifth working day of the week for those companies that would normally go on pay cuts or lay off workers because they no longer have room to cut salaries. So that the law had brought an effect on 27 people and that a total of 47,000 kuna had already been paid, it was quite clear at that time that this was a completely missed story. But no! The government keeps going. There are no 45 days when representatives of the same ministry that defends this bill here today and the Croatian Employment Service before the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership on Big Bells announced that not only will this need preserve the level foreseen in the €200 million budget, but that 100 million more will be added because the government is going to liberalise the conditions under which companies will now suddenly rely on a fifth working day subsidy in the week. Who are we kidding? Now, what's real politics? Are we going to have 200 million kuna this year for this program as much as it says in the budget? Are we going to have 5 million kunas as far as this proposal says that it will be spent by the end of the year, or are we going to have 300 million as the proposing representatives spoke a month and a half ago before the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. What does the cost of implementing this five million-million-dollar law mean? Is that 5 million more than the 200 that's already scheduled or is that 5 million total? If it's $5 million in total, who's it going to be spent on? Because if we know that 5 requirements have arrived so far with a total of 236 workers, it means that it's possible to spend 10 times more than it's spent on those 4 requests with 27 workers, which means it's at the top of the chapter 450, 460,000 kuna. Then where will the difference of four and a half million kuna go? How do you even do this math? Why do we even throw numbers at each other like that? Is this 200 million kuna that it says in the budget, in fact, one digit that is a derogation to find funds in the unrealised part of the budget to cover certain deficits that we have on other items, and we know that we are already missing 6.8 billion kuna so far so that the budget can function regularly. HNS and HSU held a press conference 40 days ago where they proposed very specific things, let's not deal with missed measures but focus our resources where we can save people who ended up on the market, who are not able to return to the labour market at this time, and, let's finance training and education programmes. Because these two measures and related ones can maintain a balance between the number of employees and the unemployed, i.e. to reduce the number of unemployed, and this also means the preservation of existing jobs and the creation of new jobs. However, when we looked at what this means in this programme of education and therefore training of workers, we came to a figure, an average figure of 18 thousand kunas, how much the state intended to spend on one unemployed who would enter the education process, and they said it would only offer them foreign language courses, and information courses. What kind of courses cost 16, 17, 18 thousand kuna? So for that money, we send people to Great Britain for three weeks for the most advanced course, we still pay for their plane ticket, and they have three weeks' accommodation and stay there, for that money. Which is the math and calculations behind these people. The government says it will include only 4% of the unemployed, so 96% of the unemployed have no chance of getting state aid to return to the labour market. No, they're immobilizing funds into ideas like this. It's not easy sitting around with people from the ministry here, 'cause they don't believe what they're saying either. Because they wouldn't come with that miserable five million-dollar figure. Five million kunas? Well, that's 50 quality new jobs. 50! Not anymore. When you create them, when you save them five hundred, and we have how many? 320 thousand unemployed, with one bad projection that could go up. If it's a policy to preserve jobs, then we're black writing and it's not going to be anything, and you think it's formal to vote for the law just because it's called the Job Support Act, so the public doesn't welcome what we're going to do against a proposal like this, because how can we be against keeping jobs, then vote whatever you want. We at the HNS and HSU club will vote on our conscience, and our conscience won't allow us to cover the nakedness of the government with an ordinary piece of paper like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55296	Thank you. Two corrections. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague said one inaccuracy. He said the law, this is a law that serves nothing. Another government doesn't have a job-preservation program. That's incorrect. Comrade Beus, I said in my presentation on behalf of the club of representatives, there were reasons why this law was not fully implemented. One of them is long. Now that, the debt of employers, and that's why they couldn't get support. It's changed now. That's exactly what I'm Another important, one large part of the employers we must be aware of has received support for employment from the Employment Office. So that's why it couldn't. That's incorrect. The government has an economic recovery programme and a recovery programme. If you print it from the government page on page 18 you can read it, and what you said about education is also what you suggested, and it exists in this row, so read it on page 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55298	Thank you. Next correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who's already listed an incorrect quote, so I'm going to do it again. A colleague said this law serves nothing. Well, it does. It serves to preserve jobs, as it clearly says, the Job Support Act. It's very useful. You say there are no government measures that would come out of the crisis and that would save jobs. That's not true. You could see that even the IMF, and the World Bank, have publicly praised the measures that will lead to an exit from the economic crisis. My colleague, it is unfortunate that the party that was hiding the deficit under the carpet, whose ministers were hiding the deficit, created the losses and debts of this country, that you today talk about how many governments there are or aren't... [[The noise in the hall, the speakers speak at the same time, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55300	There's no noise, there's no shouting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55301	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55302	It's good. There are some who think you should go to the noise.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55303	If you already want to silence the media like your mayor in Dubrovnik does, you will not silence us in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55304	Okay. We're going to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Shares the same fate as the last one. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Same as the other two ladies. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55305	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So on 30 June 2010, under this basic Law on Conservation, on support for the preservation of jobs was set as the end date until which employers could submit their requests for support to the Croatian Employment Office. So today, June 30th, I repeat in 2010 on the day on which the application for support was to be completed, we are actually in a situation that we are at the very beginning. We are in a situation where it must be acknowledged that this government anti-recession measure has experienced a complete debacle, and that we are trying to fix it in a way that sets much softer criteria for its use, respecting the state's current economic situation. By bringing this measure, the government had actually had great expectations. She calculated that she would cover as many as 250 thousand jobs and provided €200 million in the state budget for the preservation of these jobs. In doing so, it must not be silenced that part of these funds has been raised so that it is literally taken away from the unemployed, in such a way that the benefits during unemployment have been cut drastically. One, unfortunately, to a very numerous social group, and the most unprotected one, the jobless one, was further reduced by purchasing power. And if the unemployment benefits were not a reduction, so that the rest of them remained unchanged would be spent more on meeting the basic needs of life and the state would certainly collect more funds through the collected VAT. This is how cutting unemployment benefits was the same as that was the case with additional taxation of salaries and pensions by harassing, in fact, resulted in a reduction in consumption and contributed to an even stronger decline in domestic gross products. So this measure actually caused multiple damage. The law has not received any results, and the unemployed have been worsened anyway by a difficult material position. If the efficiency of this measure is assessed through the number of users and the effects achieved then it can indeed be said that it has been missed. And not only was it missed, it actually remained completely unrecognized as a measure that would help anyone in this economic crisis. Because if entrepreneurs had recognised it, it would have been evident in the number of applications submitted. These demands would be several thousand or at least a few hundred, but a total of 5 applications were submitted for 236 workers to apply this government measure. Of these 5 requirements, 4 are also approved, therefore positively solved for 27 workers. And for that, the state paid a total of 47 thousand kuna. It is not, colleagues and colleagues, any change from the amount the government has provided for that purpose. And how did she secure it? By taking away the unemployed. What is a large amount of insurance money worth when the conditions for use are actually set so that no one can benefit from that support? It's like waving steaks in front of your nose, but in a way that he can't reach it. And the government has really set conditions that completely ignore the real situation in the Croatian economy. It is as if paying minimum wages in Croatia is just a slow phenomenon, as if indifference in Croatia is just a slow phenomenon, as if employers who have problems dealing with public giving are also just a controversial phenomenon. The government has ignored the fact that a large number of Croatian employers particularly in the labour intensive branches of the processing industry pay minimum wages already now and cannot reduce the net minimum wage due to a reduction in working time because it would then mean crossing from full time to part-time. And that was one of the main reasons why no state subsidy was used to preserve jobs in the short working week. Now, with these changes, this failure is intended to be removed in a way that the pay support at the level of the difference, so the total difference between gross and net wages so that the minimum wage in the net amount would remain intact. Another reason for not using the support was that state support cannot be accumulated, and a large number of Croatian employers are already using some of the state's employment support. And the third reason for not using these support lies in the fact that a large number of employers have losses in business that date back to 31 July 2008 or have outstanding debts from the title of unpaid taxes and contributions. Now these amendments to the law want to expand the range of potential users of support in a way that allows for the use of support to be made possible by those employers with a tax administration concluded a deal on the flat-rate remuneration of outstanding public fees. The truth is there are other reasons for not using the support. For example, some representatives of the HUP think that employers did not use support for the reasons they calculated, i.e. delaying the use of measures for even harder times that we see rightly fear because the economic situation is actually becoming more difficult every day. Therefore, by amending this law, the possibility of paying out support for the preservation of jobs is extended for an additional 6 months by the end of 2010. Therefore, entrepreneurs are given another chance to recognize this measure as one that will help them overcome the dilemma of whether to quit or not. Personally, I do not think that even such a corrected measure will bring the expected results, and according to the allocations of only 5 million kuna in the state budget for this purpose, it is obvious that the government is not too optimistic either, or that it does not believe in the positive outcome of this measure itself. Because first of all, this measure is very, very late. A large number of employers have already shortened their working week, and an even bigger one has already fired the surplus workers. I really think that fixing this measure is just like giving a dead man an artificial breath. It would be far more meaningful for me if there were an increase, rather than reduced unemployment benefits, as proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club in its measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55306	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55307	Dear colleagues, I therefore sign almost everything you said, but I would like to draw your attention that you may have forgotten to say one thing that it is very difficult to expect measures on the labour market from individual solutions. Usually, serious countries, serious ministries have other approaches, it's a package of laws that regulate the labour market, it's a package of work-social laws that are intertwined. This is how when we take individual measures they really don't have that effect and I want to believe that this is, that my colleague Goran Beus said in a good way that both people and the Ministry sometimes are very uncomfortable to interpret these individual measures because they are deeply aware that one measure alone cannot significantly improve the situation for themselves. Even with good intentions, it just doesn't work. Of course it's about one whole mosaic, when you take one cube it affects the other and if we don't watch it then we can't even expect some qualitative changes in the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55308	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. She's gone. Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55309	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I understand why we are changing this law today because the answer is clear he did not simply get results, they were at least defeated and despite 69 public presentations in 2009 we had a miserable number of requests and an approved amount of less than 50,000 kuna. I understand the reasons why this was wrong, I understand the reasons why it should be changed from the minimum wage issue to the ban of double funding to the right of the tree debtors, but I do not understand in any way that despite these changes when entrepreneurs who now owe to public revenues will be able to receive support, I do not understand this amount that is in the law. Here, as colleagues warned, stands a figure of 5 million kuna. Where's the story of the 200 million kuna gone? Where's the 300 million kuna story gone? Five million kunas. I honestly thought I was reading wrong, that maybe one or two zeroes simply disappeared. But this amount is truly at the very least not to say rude but inconclusive, hypocritical and showering with common sense. Five million kunas. A law entitled the Law on the Conservation of Jobs. As a good colleague said a bomb name, a powerful name, a kiki Ricky amount, really kicky Ricky coins. Five million kunas is less than some manager has ruined some kind of public company as a severance. If we had set up a job-preservation fund and put five billion kunas in it, that would already make sense. So this is the question, why 5, and how did we get to it in the first place? I'll repeat what I often say. This situation, regardless of the global crisis, did not have to be heard by the voice of reason and the voice of the profession. I'm going to repeat again since the coup of the state budget in favour of the pre-election campaign, since 2008 when we spoke openly people's crisis is, don't throw yourself away with the money that continued until the local elections. So when Ivo Sanader said that we're cheating on the public that there's no crisis. There was indeed a lot that could have been avoided and there was no need for such a situation in which Croatia is now. This measure if it belongs to an anti-recession package then it's like taking two drops of water and throwing it in a bouquet, because that's what this amount suggests. Five million kunas to preserve jobs. Honestly, I'm going to tell you my personal opinion when I look at some anti-recession measures, and this one belongs to me by this amount that I really consider hypocritical in order not to measure. And I think the government stepped into a pee zone and pooped honestly. Because first, we wouldn't have a hack, so we're against new taxes because we stick it to posters all over Croatia, and then the VAT went up afterwards. We are now listening to the media about how thousands and thousands of citizens will breathe more easily with new tax rates soon. Who's going to breathe easier? Those who get 150 kunas or those who already had tens and tens of thousands of kuna will receive even more money. The middle class certainly won't enjoy it, it will eventually be destroyed by such measures. After all, whose money are they now so generously given that they can breathe easier? Every person, every employee who works in this country gets a net salary, but he has to earn his gross salary to get a net. He has to make a lot more money. And now part of that gross he's already earned is mercifully given back and says be happy you'll breathe easier. It's like I go into your apartments and I take your TV and I sell it for 700 kuna, I give you 200, I keep myself 500, and I say you should be happy about it. That's not exactly an anti-recession measure. And not to say that we will soon be in the Assembly discussing the issue of cultural rents where again because of the miserable amounts, we will cut out a potentially very good branch of cultural tourism that can preserve and bring jobs. I here at this point see only that everything comes down to taxes and cut. And in a particular segment, we all know it's necessary. But we finally need proactive economic measures to come to us here, the Minister of Economy, and also the Minister of Science and the Minister of Agriculture, whichever, to tell us that they will go to tax discharge for adult education and education, that they will go to foster business innovation. Because you know that at this point, colleagues and colleagues will potentially lose their jobs because of the end of the contract with scientific money that they received only at the University of Zagreb, 350 young doctors of science, because the state is not going out of work, because that was the contract. Young science doctors will probably lose their jobs if money is not urgently found to hire them. I think it's the best example for you actually of what's going on and that these measures are really going the wrong way. I expect someone to come in here and say they're going to go to the financial incentive of technology transfer. I expect that perhaps the Minister of Agriculture will come and say that it will go into the mass stimulation of food products of those who have a market and demand great, and such still thank God exists. I expect someone to come by and say we'll tax all energy investments, and I don't know, we'll clear the way for anyone who wants to invest and open jobs on clean technologies. These are colleagues and colleagues who will save jobs, potentially open up some new ones. And this anti-recession measure is really late. I will openly tell you she is ineffective, and by the amount I will repeat this shameful amount, she is at least hypocritical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55310	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55311	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In fact, we have before us a draft law which, regardless of the good intentions of the Government, I will not support and, above all, because I believe that the effects that have been achieved by the current application of this law are such that it is as it is or even changed in the form in which it is proposed will not produce any results and to the extent that the damage of this House's time lost to such a bill. I worry about it when we talk about this bill a lot more than that. So, if we talk about the law that was passed last year prior to its adoption, the time spent by a journalist is far more than what all the funds invested in so far are worth to save jobs, then it is evident that this law has not only won any result, but it really makes no sense to discuss it. But what is worrying is that, especially at a time of severe economic crisis, when certain measures are really needed to be taken by the Government, the time of this House is spent on such a bill. And that's what concerns me the most personally, because it turns out that the ministry doesn't have any other bill proposals that could have far greater effects than this. So to conclude, I think it would be a much better measure if, in fact, the funds foreseen for this measure were redistributed in such a way as to make any tax discharge any reduction of VAT, I am deeply aware that a 1% reduction in VAT has far greater effects than these 5 million kunas. But it is certain that, on the one hand, the time spent, on the other hand, extremely small, almost insignificant funds will not seriously prevent job losses but can only boost the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, and what is not in line with this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55312	Thank you. At 16,44, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review, State Secretary Ivan Bubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55313	Dear MPs and Mrs. Sobol and Jelash, distinguished representatives of Mr. Mondekar, Serbs and absent Cain and Richembergh and all of you here present. I would like to say that precisely because of these bad effects from expected effects and proposed these amendments to this law that "simplify" the conditions of use. Secondly, the funds are being re-imbursed to active employment policy measures. I answer the question in turn. Third, the procedure for granting support was regulated by the implementing regulations adopted by the Croatian Employment Service Council and published on the Institute's website. Fourthly, from experience I can tell you a proposal of these last discussions and the sense that it is the propensity of economies to use other support and incentives and we have based on this almost one-year experience and reduced these incentives from the mentioned 200 million to 5 because this is our estimate that it can be used so much by the end of the year. And fifthly, the rebalancing will be redeployed for similar needs that this prized home of the Croatian Parliament will be informed in the procedure of adopting the Republic of Croatia's State Budget Rebalance for the current year 2010. And I would only correct Mr. Cain when he mentioned Tekop, it's not about Tekop. Teko is a suitable protection workshop in Pula, he thinks of Tessa which is formerly part of the Uljanika, but they have also received from the Croatian government a state guarantee that is now on them to equip and exploit him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55314	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55315	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Support for Job Conservation, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 549. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Economic Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Act on Support for the Conservation of Jobs. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 98 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55316	The draft law amending the law on Croatian broadcasting will be discussed when the relevant committee discusses it. We are now going to the point - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and use of pipelines in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 558 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation and economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Natasa Vujec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55317	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. Honorable MPs. This law confirms the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and use of pipelines in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in order to make contractual provisions in accordance with the Constitution part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and use of pipelines in the state area of the Republic of Croatia was signed in Moscow on 2 March 2010, and concerns the future pipeline of the South Stream, which will supply gas to Europe from the Russian Federation on the southern route. To date, similar contracts have been signed by Serbia, Hungary, Slovenia and Austria, countries over which the new pipeline system will pass. The main gas pipeline arm that will pass through the Black Sea across those countries is projected to end in Austria where a gas storage facility is located in Vaumgarten, as well as the point of gas trading for Southeast and Central Europe. A second gas pipeline arm is scheduled and would take the southern route, i.e. through Greece, across the Adriatic Sea to Italy. The contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and use of a brand-new pipeline in the state area of the Republic of Croatia provides for the establishment of a society whose founders will be "Gasprom" and "Plinacro", our transport company for the transport of natural gas, each of which will have a share in the founding capital of 50%. The costs related to the construction of the pipeline, as well as the costs of preparing the feasibility study until the establishment of the company, will be borne by the founders in accordance with the shares in the founding capital. According to the results of the feasibility study, the founder determines the route and parameters of the pipeline, which includes its capacity and scope of the necessary infrastructure, and jointly decide on the establishment of a company that will be responsible for the implementation of projects from the design phase to the construction and use of the pipeline. The founders will prepare the performance of the gas pipeline study in accordance with the contract by the end of 2010 at the latest, depending on the results of the study, a decision on the construction of the pipeline no later than 24 months after the date of receipt of the feasibility study. The established company will perform all the functions of the gas pipeline operator. The right to use all gas pipeline capacities belongs to the Russian founder or legal person whom he has authorised, since they are in charge of supplying the necessary quantities of gas and sales on the market. Dear MPs, we propose the adoption of this law on the confirmation of the contract by emergency procedure, since there are particularly justified state reasons. They are contained in the need to intensify economic co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and the Russian Federation, which will be possible through the implementation of agreed contractual mechanisms, especially in the light of ensuring reliable natural gas supply as one of the main energy sources in Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55318	Thank you. Legislative committees, the economy? I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Reading this proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and use of pipelines in the territory of the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal of the law. One topic we should all support unreservedly. And we at the HNS club honestly are in an extremely large dilemma whether to support it or not. Speaking of the pipeline route, I'm sure. But when we read the text of this contract, then we at the Croatian People's Party club, we can hardly support it because there is too little information. There's an entire series of questions open. The fact that we've got something already signed in Parliament. It's a fact and we have to confirm it now. By confirming this contract, the whole series of things remains hanging in the air, the whole series of things is asked how and how this contract will have implications for other projects, to what extent and I think it would be a minimum of decency that here today in front of representatives of the Croatian Parliament the idea of accepting and signing such a contract to give us these arguments that whoever signed this contract, the one who agreed. Because it's absolutely certain and almost certain that many of the things that were preceded and the arrangements that preceded this agreement through this text of the treaty were negotiated between the two sides. And I think it would be a repeat minimum of decency to hear what was agreed, as the economy minister agreed with the Russian side represented by the Russian Energy Minister. What? Because we don't know exactly what this is about, I repeat the principle of what opportunities we open up with, except that we get an additional supply direction, which are alternatives, whether that story enters Croatia from Hungary, whether it enters from Serbia, whether it enters from Slovenia. You can't see from the text of this contract. The fact that because of the wise policy of the Nabucco gas pipeline, we avoided the South Stream is the fact and the fact that we are now getting a southern current, but a southern current that is not transitory. This contract does not show whether it is transitory or not. Go on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the implementation of the project, the Croatian Party will ensure that land parcels which meet the objectives and conditions for the implementation of the project and the irrevocably grant of the right to the land plot indicated in order to ensure the uninterrupted implementation of the project. Is the land entering the project or not entering the project? Does this land have its value? What's that value? Will that value be charged from that joint venture or that value enters that joint venture? From this contract we at the club of the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian party of pensioners cannot understand, we cannot read. In order to increase economic efficiency for the duration of the implementation of the project, the Croatian Party shall provide the company with the most favourable customs tax treatment. Customs is understandable, tax treatment according to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is understandable, but which means now this next. Including the acceleration of the value added tax procedures paid on goods, services and works necessary for the implementation of the project. What does that mean? Do we have two systems? I repeat, including the acceleration of the tax return process. What does that mean? Does the tax return immediately the same day, whether it returns the second day, the third day, the 30 day, the 60 day or when it returns? Practically reading this contract on each article leaves a whole series of questions, questions to which we do not have an answer. And I personally appreciate the will and willingness and secretary of state for coming today to defend this contract. But one such general contract that has long-term consequences, one such contract which provides the truth with one additional energy supply direction, and in this case gas, but one such contract and the signing of one such contract opens up a whole series of new issues. And I will repeat once again, I think it would be a minimum of decency for today in the Parliament to be the one who negotiated with partners in Russia this text of the treaty, to give us further explanations, especially what are the effects, which are effects but starting with the sovereignty of this country and the final and supply, of the additional gas supply direction that are participants in the signing of such a contract. What happens to Nabucco or we give up on him? What happens to LNG or we give up on him? I'll do it again. We at the Croatian People's Party club support every activity, every action that enables the development of the economy and one of the key options we remember a year ago, a little time has passed, when we have lost the gas that gives the economy the opportunity to develop, which gives this country the opportunity to develop, but in a way that signs a contract that pulls together a whole series of questions and questions, I don't think we can support it, and I think it would be irresponsible to support it on the basis of this text of the contract, I repeat this text of the contract, if anything else just to explain to you why and why in one international contract we need to include an in-house acceleration of the tax return process on added value paid on goods, services, and works needed to implement the project. And I repeat, it's a questionable route, it's a questionable land, and it's questionable to have a whole series of other projects that will have extremely strong implications for this country's future development. Until we get these additional clarifications, until we get the arguments, until we find out what's specifically agreed, and let's remember we have a fresh one, here's the parliamentary commission now formed around the INA, that some things were arranged under the table, some things around the table, and all three things went into paper. The text of this contract gives us the right and I think it requires every one of us to be obliged to hear from the actors who arranged this job what is being... Which, in particular, is about giving us answers to all the questions we certainly have, because this is how I think it's extremely irresponsible, unserious and possible for the country and harmful. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55320	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55321	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State. Here are a few words on behalf of the club on this surely important proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and use of pipelines in the state area of the Republic of Croatia. I'll let myself at the beginning maybe get to the bottom of this. Say next. Energy geopoliticals in the broadest sense for each country is one of the most important topics for a whole series of reasons. I would say politically, economically, energy, security, and a whole series of other aspects. And that is why this law certainly wanted me to or did not belong to this one broader context of one country's energy geopoliticals and deserves in this context and in this sense this law a brief review. However, regardless of the various analyses, from various aspects of the various articles of this law, the HDZ Club will give full support to the proposal for this law for a whole series of reasons, because at the last moment, at the last moment I would say what was signed in Moscow is one significant result of Croatian state policy, Croatian foreign policy, diplomatic efforts of the Republic of Croatia and particularly the personal president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Allow me a few words about what is related to this contract. The signing of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and use of pipelines in the territory of the Republic of Croatia extends cooperation between the two countries in the area of natural gas supply, and supports the construction of a new gas pipeline system on the south route for transit and gas delivery in the Republic of Croatia and perhaps beyond, and creates conditions for the design, construction and use of that gas pipeline system in the Republic of Croatia. While there was no contract, what did the situation in the Republic of Croatia look like? I'd say much more unfavorable. No matter what the perspective of the South Stream is. In any case, this Treaty shall contribute to strengthening the energy security of the Republic of Croatia. We certainly hope and will see and hope that this project, with the construction of the LNG terminal in Krk, will mean significantly stronger energy security of the Republic of Croatia in the gas sector and investment of such character, I would say are extremely important for the Croatian economy, for the Croatian future, for the quality of life of Croatian citizens and in this context, regardless of the necessary debate on all the members of this contract, in the whole of this contract at the time was one significant success of Croatian state policy and the success of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Certainly ensuring a stable supply of natural gas from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Croatia is very important for increasing the energy security of the Republic of Croatia, through which the diversification of the route stands, but certainly in addition to diversification of the route, what we must take into account is also diversification of the source, and therefore the wider debates in the context of what is called broader energy geopoliticals deserve a little more attention, certainly at some other time, and certainly do not want to talk about it anymore at this point. The Treaty between the Government of the Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and use of pipelines in the territory of the Republic of Croatia provides for the establishment of a company whose founders will be GASSPROM and PLINACRO each will have an appropriate share in the founding capital of that company of 50%. The costs related to the pipeline, as well as the costs of preparing a study on the feasibility of a key document to be completed by the end of this year, will be borne by its founders in accordance with the share in the founding capital. According to the performance study results, the founders determine the route, the gas pipeline parameters including its capacity, the extent of the infrastructure needed, and together make a decision on the establishment of a company that will be responsible for the implementation of the project from the design phase to the construction and use of the pipeline. As the founders are standing here by 30 December at the latest, I would say a very ambitious deadline and question whether it is realistic, feasible, because in any case this feasibility study should be one basic document for further development of this project with minimal risks in each respect and with maximum benefits for the interests of the Republic of Croatia and its energy system. The established company will perform all the functions of the gas pipeline operator, the right to use all the gas pipeline capacities, which is very important to the prominent, Russian founder or legal person he has authorised. That certainly deserves to be a bit of a bit of a commentary. Article 2 provides that the company owns gas pipelines as well as other assets and facilities that the company creates or acquires in the performance of its business activities. The founders have the following shares, in the founding capital of the Croatian founder 50%, Russian founder 50%. After the establishment of the company, each of the founders independently ensures the financing of the company's activities in accordance with its share in the founding capital of the company. Article 4 of the gas pipeline parameters, including its capacity, track and scope of the necessary infrastructure, shall be determined by the founders during the preparation and work on a key document called the feasibility study. Certainly given all the parameters of this pipeline in terms of the market, given... where it is located, which are its capacities, which are projections of these capacities, which are risks etc., and as it stands here on the proposal of the company or its founders, the Croatian party will, as soon as possible, approve the route of gas pipeline in the state area of the Republic of Croatia for a simple reason, because we are interested in making these investments truly necessary by contributing to the employment of economic growth of the Republic of Croatia. Article 5 of the parties agree that the founders will prepare a feasibility study by 30 December at the latest. I said, a very ambitious deadline. The opening of an international tender, the selection of the best bidder, the clear criteria of expectations and the specification of all the questions to which this feasibility study must provide a quality response, specific quantities, conditions, deadlines for such natural gas deliveries shall be provided by specific contracts. One of the conditions, this is also important, for the start of the construction of the pipeline is the conclusion of a long-term contract between the company and the Russian founder or legal person authorised by the Russian founder to transport the amount of natural gas or through the pipeline for the internal needs of the Republic of Croatia. In some ways, these provisions minimise all possible investment risks. Article 6 of the gas pipeline operator’s functions is carried out by the company, the tariffs for gas transport services shall be determined by the company, given that it is in its exclusive jurisdiction. Paragraph 3 of Article 6 deserves perhaps a little comment. The right to use all gas pipeline capacities shall belong to the Russian founder or legal person authorised by him. In any event, the following articles say that these issues will be regulated in order to address the risks and that the exclusion which this claim or this Article belongs to the Russian founder in some way will be minimised and the European Commission may grant an exemption in view of the nature of investments, the scope of investments and is not the only project in Europe that should have such an exemption. What else do you say? The contract was signed in Moscow on 2 March 2010 between the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Energy of the Russian Federation. Given what the projection of the perspectives of our energy security in the gas sector looked like, I believe that this contract is a good contribution to strengthening energy security and that during the course of the performance study and all additional efforts and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, PLINACRA and all those involved in this project, it should be profiled and shaped in a way that corresponds to the interests of the Republic of Croatia in all respects in the context of strengthening the energy geopolitical position of the Republic of Croatia, strengthening the Croatian economy, strengthening the energy sector. It's our joint task and our shared responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55322	Thank you very much. We have another application on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55323	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yes, before he said Mr. Korachević that it was questionable a lot. For me, however, something else is far more questionable. Why would someone at this point for, let's call it, the "Adrie companies" in this country not answer or as this law is finally called the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation in cooperation with the construction and use of pipelines in the state area of the Republic of Croatia – in translation "The Society of Adria". Who's supposed to answer that? So I say all those who ran Mrs. Kosor's campaign there in 2004, against "The Adrija Society". The church, clearly she shouldn't answer, I mean politics here. With the Church I see trying to be principled. We were against 2004, so we are today. But I think that policy of this kind has caused enormous, huge damage to this country. I mean, even some NGOs, but we'll be easy for NGOs. It's easy to be in this country against everything, but it should also survive. And we're, I don't agree with Mr. Shucker that it's going to be about paying off pensions at the 9th month, but we're probably not far from it either. However, it is obvious that some in this country do not worry. Before I say any of these parameters, let me tell you how much of this Adrie Society can come true on an annual basis. Somewhere around 10 million euros. So 10 million euros. How much we lost in those, gentlemen... Then what is it? .../The Intruder doesn't understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If it's the South Stream gas, if it's not the Adria Company, then I'm going to switch to the South Stream, but just to say that it's just past this time to play with everything, to just give up everything. If it's true that from this Adria Society of that southern flow of gas that will cross that pipeline again, we lose 10m euros annually. In five years, we gentlemen lost about 50 million euros somewhere. 5 times 7 is about 350 million kuna. For 350 million kuna, you know how long it took to sell a shoe like 350 kuna? About $4 million somewhere. Therefore, let us not simply in these circumstances when our gross social product continued to fall in 2010 when we lost 94 thousand jobs in 2009, when everything simply falls, we do not have the right to simply play. We're not going to do anything in this country. We don't want the South Stream, we don't want the Adrian Society, we don't want the hotels, we don't want the apartments, we don't want the industry, we don't want the golf. We've created a picture in the last 20 years that without everything we can live, and I claim that without the number we can only fail. 20 years since '91. To this day, on the side of aggression, we lived eating only our own batteries. And now that we're out of work, it's hard to just run, and I'm saying that these investments, and even in this gas about that South Stream, let's now let the Adria Society and the oil should be accepted. Because if we don't accept these things in a year, we're going to sell ourselves a whole lot cheaper, and I can see right now that no one buys anything in this country. He bought Končar, a Barbarigu-Dioner from the HIPO bank for 51 million euros, for what was the real square meter sold there? Between 25 and 30 euros. Until yesterday, we were ready to overestimate everything 200, 300, 500 thousand euros, etc. And he bought the project with 100 hectares for 51m euros. When we reject that investment he had in the water line, those in the road construction in the project documentation bought it for 25 to 30 euros de facto. And God forbid something concrete happens there. All in all I think a luxury would be at this point to refuse any project. And so many IDS clubs for this South Stream or the Adria Society will raise their hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55324	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. The first to answer Gordan Maras, he loses his right to debate. Daniel Srb next reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55325	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I find it unusual that every new energy facility will increase the security of the supply of Croatia to any source of energy, including the connection to a new pipeline. But unlike my colleagues who believe this is a remarkable success of Croatian foreign policy, I consider this exactly the way of joining the exceptional failure of Croatian foreign policy, so I would be free to explain a little bit. Namely, since there were possibilities of joining different energy routes of the pipeline, the southern flow in the master's sense that it passes through Croatia, it would have been the success of Croatian foreign policy, if Croatia had managed in a certain way, although it was difficult to imagine, to reverse the Nabucco pipeline's very route through Croatia, it would have been a great success. If LNG terminal were to be produced in Krk at this time, and it seems that it will be built in Trieste and not in Krk, then it would be the great successes of Croatian foreign policy and that would be the right way to use the Croatian geographical position for the development of the Croatian economy. But that didn't happen. We, what we have today, were probably not able to set ourselves differently at the time when the Russian partner was very interested in defining the course of the South, precisely because of that Nabucco pipeline precisely because of Croatia's desire to enter the European Union as soon as possible. And what did we get in return? It's just the possibility of us joining up as users and maybe that. This may be evident in Article 5 of this Treaty, where it reads, among other things, paragraph 2. "The Russian founder will consider increasing the supply of gas from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Croatia through a gas pipeline under market conditions including the possibility of delivering gas to a legal entity designated by the Croatian side." So this is all quite relatively, and we would like to have one secure source of energy and thus strengthen the position of Croatia through the desire to become one intersection of energy flows and through this become a stronger strategic partner and through this more interesting European Union. So it is my opinion that things are being put upside down here, that instead of Croatia using its geographical position to strengthen its foreign-political position, we are actually delaying the possibility of using different projects in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, using our geographical position to strengthen the external-political position as well. So I have to say, unfortunately, we're too late. But when you look at this, you have to pay attention to something else, which is who are the signatories of this contract. For the Government of the Republic of Croatia Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, for the Russian Federation of Energy Ministers. I warn here several times that Croatia cannot capitalise power in the economic sense of its energy if energy in Croatia is administratively defined on such low branches. Not only do we not have the Ministry of Energy, but we don't have it at much lower levels, which energy deserves. Because without adequate and positioning in Croatian society, they cannot, of course, be capitalised or opportunities that Croatia objectively can through the energy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55326	Thank you very much. And now colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go. Yeah, I'm sorry. Replica, colleague Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55327	Thank you, Your Honor. Although I welcome my colleague to announce the construction of this pipeline, I cannot ask whether the price of this contract is Croatia's consent to the realisation of the economic and environmental doubt project by Adria. I would also like to remind you that, so far, large gas energy projects have been announced on several occasions, but so far none of them have been realised. Although the government does not talk about it publicly, there are many indications that the LNG terminal project on the island of Krk is being rapidly shut down. There are also some misunderstandings in this contract. For example. Article 6 states that the right to use all gas pipeline capacities belongs to a Russian founder or legal person whom the Russian founder of power does not sound very encouraging to Croatia. Although this law primarily allows for the implementation of a project feasibility study, the text of the contract already defines very large obligations for the Republic of Croatia, and in particular Article 9 which obliges the Republic of Croatia, I quote: "to the separation of land parcels that meet the objectives and conditions for the implementation of the project and the irrevocably enforcing of the rights to those land parcels in order to ensure the uninterrupted implementation of the projects". And without some additional fuses for the Croatian side, it is quite risky, not to say potentially to push us into a vasal relationship. So there are a lot of big doubts about the way this contract was drawn up, although of course in the interest of the Republic of Croatia it is to realize such a pipeline.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55328	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague of the Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55329	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I fully share your opinion that the provisions of this treaty leave a lot of doubt as to whether this was actually done, made up in the way that it best protects Croatian interests. But I think it would be extremely important for Croatia to take advantage of the possibility of building all the energy routes that are mentioned as possible in the Republic of Croatia, including the Adria Society and everything possible, so these various possible routes of gas pipelines by missing a lot of things. I also agree with the fact that the very worrying situation of the LNG terminal project in Krk is, and the fact that the highway direction of this pipeline does not go through Croatia is actually the best indicator of lost time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55330	Thank you. And now my colleague Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55331	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think we all pretend that we know what this is about and that it is extremely incorrect for both this Croatian Parliament and the people who may be listening and watching us because the secretary of state has just failed to say some basic things and information about this project that I think is very important. And already, the failure itself is that today, as counterpart Koračević begins, there is not a minister named Đuro Popijac, who sat in Moscow and negotiated the overall framework of co-operation in the South Stream project. In fact, MPs are expected to raise their hand for a project that we only know in principle that can bring certain energy benefits to the Republic of Croatia, but that we do not know about anything else. I would like to remind you, the South Stream is an alternative gas supply route to Western Europe. Alternative, existing, already built to pass through Ukraine and Belarus. Since Russia has already had a very simple, concrete circus of experience in both Ukraine and Belarus, it is wanted in fact by the northern course that goes through the Baltic Sea and the southern Black Sea, through Bulgaria and then through Greece to Italy on the one hand, that is, through Serbia, Hungary and Austria on the other hand, to ensure that it can actually distribute its gas to Europe without great interference. The fact is that this is one of the largest energy infrastructure facilities and projects that will be built in Europe at all because the estimates say that its construction could reach a value of as much as 24 billion euros, of which almost 8.5 billion or perhaps even more will apply to sub-sea parts of the pipeline through the Black Sea and the Ionian Sea. But it is also a fact that we do not know how much all these national divisions, which will be built from Serbia, will be built in Bulgaria, Greece, through the Turkish zone, or Turkish territory, eventually cost. But what we are particularly interested in is what will happen to the Croatian part of this pipeline. Therefore, it is not a transport pipeline where Croatia will make big money because gas goes through its territory but rather a supply pipeline which is an alternative energy source for energy difficulties, instability or as a prevention of Croatia's dependence on dominant energy sources. However, we still don't know anything about whether the leg will enter the Republic of Croatia from Serbia, whether it will enter from the direction of Hungary or enter from Slovenia. One, the other and the third are not the same, nor will it cost the same, nor will the same be able to assess the impact on the environment. Likewise, it is known now that "Srbigas" has signed a contract with "Gaspro" to work on a new branch of the so-called "Serbigas". who will go to Banja Luka and towards Sarajevo through the valley of Sheba. The question arises whether we have wisely assessed when we entered this story without consulting our neighbours where our gas pipeline will go, because if some experts say it would be the cheapest, and we are in the interest of achieving the cheapest possible variant, that this arm goes along the same route as JANAF's pipeline, because in it, experts say, there is room, we can build, and I say we still don't know whether it will happen or not and whether it will actually go two arms parallelly, one north of Sava, and the other south of Sava. So, still the one south of Sava that's going to be built by "Serbigas" because it's so announced, I don't know what's funny, Madam Secretary of State... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So if we don't know that, if we don't know from this contract, read whose land this pipeline is going to go to, whether the value of the land will enter into the core capital of this future company, whether the value of the land will be interpreted as Croatian capital, how much can it possibly cost, because some estimates speak up to a fantastic 460 million euros, not knowing who the investor is, whether these funds will provide Croatian sources or Russian sources. So all of this together makes one group of unknowns based on which it is impossible to say at this time that it will look like a South Stream arm that will pass through the Republic of Croatia at all. We don't know where, we don't know what the implications will be, we don't know what economic grounds. But what we do know is that we need that gas. That's a fact. But we also don't know how to end the story of the LNG terminal in Omiseye. Because if we have this, then the question is whether we need this terminal at all and it's likely to jeopardize the LNG project. But then we have to be aware that we can't talk about having a few projects, because there won't be any money for that. Is after this, like my colleague Cain says, going to perform and talk about Adriana's company? Whether it's a mixed or connected story or not, we don't even know it. It would be fine if those who participated in the talks with Prime Minister Putin, the Minister of Energy and the other officials of the Russian Federation had given us, on three occasions, concrete and correct information, which is actually behind the hill, which is the real framework of our energy package of cooperation with the Russian Federation. If we're told you came in at the last minute, then that means we might have been able to take better chances. Because if everyone before us has agreed absolutely all the elements of the South Stream including Serbia and Hungary and Greece and Bulgaria and Italy and Turkey, and we are the last to come. We probably didn't have much left, and we probably couldn't choose much. In this sense, we are not happy that we are in a position to be told to take or leave because we cannot guarantee anything that our decision in the Croatian Parliament will end up right in the end, that it will not cause unnecessary and large costs, that it will not be shown by a later comparative analysis that we have paid much more than we should have and that we may have lost some of the capital we should have saved. First of all, I think of a country that is treated here almost as a priority, where we don't even know what will happen to the ownership of these parcels because the formulation as it is mentioned here is such that we don't even know if it's the core capital of a future society. Whether it will be 100 percent property of a future society in which Croatia and Russia, i.e. Plinacro and Gazprom 50:50 partners. So we don't know those elements. An environmental impact study that is promised by the end of this year may give some answers that are quite contrary to our discussions today. But precisely because you don't even know what this story is going to look like in the end are certain doubts. And it is a pity, because it is a very important, very valuable, ultimately very useful project for the Republic of Croatia. And I ask you nicely, Mr. Vice-President, warn the Secretary of State that her work in the Croatian Parliament is not to laugh in the face of parliamentary deputies, forgive me. I will forgive you, but I ask you nicely if I say something that I am not standing as a representative of the motionary at any time when any of us who speak ends have the right to step out for a pay phone and correct and give further clarifications. And if we're saying something that doesn't stand, we can only thank the scarcity of the information that you've exposed us to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55332	Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55333	Mr. Vice President, secretary, colleague and colleague. Remember the end of last year in this Croatian Parliament, we made a decision on the energy strategy. And that's where all the problems we've caused begin. A non-quality energy strategy that has not defined enough transport routes, an energy strategy that has not defined nor energy sources, and that is our biggest problem. The main element of this strategy that we discussed was atomic energy as a solution to insufficient energy for the development of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we, as Parliamentarians, have to ask how much our fault is if we're unhappy today. And it is obvious that the energy strategy needs to be restored and seriously debated. We're going back. All Croatian Government programmes led by Ivo Sanader and Prime Minister Kosor have always been import energy, and we return to why we have not defined why these are gas fields in the northern Adriatic and Central Adriatic. How much is the possibility of producing domestic gas and Plinar's responsibilities to create connections with land and transporting that gas, where we will hire a domestic worker, domestic technology, domestic companies. These are well-paid jobs. It's an extraordinary profit on the wells. No, that's not what we're talking about. We didn't say anything about it in the strategy. We're not going into any of these most important items. And up to the last 15 years, Europe has been concerned because there are no own sources of how to make up for several directions in energy security. We're not even dealing with the extraction of our own energy from existing wells or possible future wells. And of course, that's the problem then that we just weren't even aware of what we were going to do with the alternative to the transport routes of energy. Let's be honest, we've been talking about LNG for the last ten years, the last ten. We've been more active for the last year. And again we are going to the project without those who produce, who have LNG which will be very problematic because several transport routes of energy have already been resolved towards Europe, and LNG for Croatia is not the direction. He's for Europe, and we can only be a transit country and use part of LNG. Yeah, we can do that. And now the question is, what about traffic? Therefore, if LNG is, if we think of anything with Algerian gas that comes to the very borders of Croatia, which with an existing Russian direction or a new Russian direction is a few sources. But it's always a fundamental question of what a domestic source is, how much we can have exactly domestic gas and take care of our own domestics because it's the cheapest. Because it uses home-made knowledge, domestic technology and domestic... No matter the legal price. [[You don't understand.]] We won't even talk politics. It is the full responsibility of the Croatian government. Policy talks will not pay the price of gas and whoever works with gas will be a loser and addict to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Production runs from gas because it is too expensive and when you compare the price of gas from Croatian industries and European industries we are more expensive. When we look at citizens, we're cheaper. We're cheaper. It's a loss. Loss. Therefore, investment in gas is always questionable, although we have gas transport through PLINACRO, as a national company, in 100% ownership, is not resolved. It is therefore the wrong policy that we have about the price, I would say completely the lack of work of HERA, which is responsible for that market, and I would say the unspecified strategy for which we are responsible in the Croatian Parliament. And now comes the worst. It's still the biggest shame when we don't have energy, and we don't have energy in the winter. We don't have gas. And this contract, however bad it is, is better than not having gas. Then the damage is the greatest. I'd... Thankfully, winter has never shown up to the end all the evil people have not paid for their gas shortages, but the economy has paid for it. [[You don't understand.]] So, it doesn't matter at all, let's make this a bad deal. Let's get this bad deal going, 'cause he's better than we don't have... It is important to fight, through a new strategy for our own sources, for our own transport routes, to invest money in that area because there is gas in Croatia, to make sure that the LNG project is really working out, then whether or not this project will be implemented, will not, how or what, we will dictate the conditions why because we will have alternative gas sources, we will have other routes, then the Russians will have an interest in being more competitive and selling their gas, but if we do not put them economically, let us not expect mercy. [[You don't understand.]] And let's be honest, it's really absurd for someone to say it's a success of our diplomacy. Well, people, we cut off the negotiations with the Russian side, we closed all the doors with Adria, we couldn't negotiate. So are we aware that the contract didn't know if we were going to extend the gas delivery, and we're running out of a long-term contract. So maybe this is the price of it. None of us know. Our diplomacy has stopped talking. Now imagine the whole of Europe, which is otherwise set up as the protector of democratic processes in Europe, has never set anything for Russia, because it did not want to end diplomacy precisely because of the energy and sources that are coming, whether it is oil or whether it is gas, but one Croatia has been able to shut up for 5 years and I would say completely to endanger the sources, the direction of energy from Russia, independent oil, independent gas. And this is the result of that, failed diplomacy, broken contracts, I'd say incomprehensible solutions, now take what's in front of us, because it's still the most expensive thing when we don't have energy, then it's the most expensive. And this contract will be as good as we can get INA and PLINACRO to settle our own gas reserves. And also to be successful in the LNG project. As much as he's less interested in Europe right now. But we can simply strengthen the dynamics of investment and negotiations on the implementation of this project. At that moment, the terms of this contract are going to be a little bit different than at the moment we're reading the contract looks. This is why I personally believe that we should be without energy, no development, no future, Croatia unfortunately did not have a quality policy, and indeed this contract is a failure of Croatia... and the failure of the Croatian government's negotiations with Russia which saved something at the last minute. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55334	Thank you. And the last individual application, and yet we had a replica. Yes, here's a colleague of the Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his presentation, esteemed colleague Linic spoke a lot about domestic energy sources, but what it looks like in our real life when in fact the same company in Croatia is the main distributor, i.e. the importer of gas from the Soviet Union, from Russia pardon, the gas producer, and at the same time there are concessions on its own sites, and the negative one where geothermal energy is found very often. In practice, even when the government finances the construction of certain facilities, at the very geothermal source, to the investor’s inquiry and even Croatian ministries according to INA as a concessionary, there is no answer on existing geothermal sources about the possibility of using an existing geothermal source. So not to say no capacity, no opportunity, but not to get an answer at all. And this is because INA earned on gas imports or on the production of its own non-essential, more than it has interest in using Croatian geothermal sources. From the point of view of the INA, it may have been economically justified, but from the point of view of the Croatian state it is unacceptable. And today, when Croatia no longer controls the INA, the situation in Croatia is incomparably more unfavourable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55336	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55337	Let's remember all the solutions are always in the hands of the government. As far as INA's work is concerned, whether it's a gas field, whether it's oil, whether it's geothermal, it's all based on concessions. Concession contracts can be changed. And the moment the price of oil crossed 30 dollars, the most invaluable well in Croatia had to be exploited, and these were the concession contracts. Also, why don't you take away contracts on geothermal findings in the Republic of Croatia? Who decides that? Not the owner of the INA, the state, you know who gives the concession. Gentlemen, anything is possible, and you can force any company in Croatia that has a concession contract to behave with, I would say the attention of a good businessman, to simply take care of our national wealth. And that's gas and oil and everything. Not to stay in countries because someone estimates that only 10 dollars will be made per tonne or per barrel. That's our problem. And we always just have to ask the Croatian government. But to ask that, we have to set a strategy. The strategy is set by this Croatian Parliament. But we found a solution, for us, for our future only atomic power plants, we don't need anything else. That's how we decided last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55338	It is now time for debate, dear colleague Zdenko Franic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55339	Dear Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When Prime Minister Kosor and Mr. Economy Minister were in Moscow in March and when this contract was negotiated, Putin said according to a press report, "You have come at the last minute!" So that sentence and that media report tells everything. That those countries that don't have their energy and who don't have a vision of how to get to energy cannot set the conditions but must accept what is offered to them. The problem that has arisen and which we, right now during this debate, detect, is that we really don't have a quality energy strategy that would be based as much on energy production as it is on listing everything and everything, beautiful desires. But the fact is that the government and parliament had no power to take an important step forward and adopt an energy programme that would go beyond several parliamentary mandates because it would only guarantee energy sovereignty and independence and the independence of the Republic of Croatia. Energy programmes, energy strategies are being done in a palatable way to satisfy the electoral body, voter taste, and not really solve problems. Moreover, this anemic energy strategy that we adopted on 15.10, i.e. on 15.10.2009, is in some way in collapsing with Prime Minister Kosor's programme, which is mostly based on energy supply routes, not on energy production within the Republic of Croatia and putting into operation all available capacities. So this contract, which is what it is, obviously written in a hurry, is a little bit of support, because we simply don't have a better one. The fact is that such a contract can also read certain blackmails from our partner who gives us gas, so a partner who has no energy problems. So the sayings entered into the contract and here is the situation related to the relief from the acceleration of tax relief, which is actually a category contrary to the market economy because it essentially puts all other economic operators in an unfavourable position that are unable to speed up obtaining such reliefs as in the case of this partner, Russian gas distributors. But energy is something we need, something we can't do without. So the most expensive is the energy it doesn't have. The fact is also that Article 6 here is the saying of the contract, saying that the right to use all gas pipeline capacities belongs to the Russian founder or legal person he has authorized, and now we can interpret it as irrelevant to us because we do not have the gas capacity to release it by that pipeline anyway. However, the question arises why did the Russian side really insist on this expression that they have the right to use all capacities when the founding shares are 50/50? Why, then, is it not at least nominally stated that the right to 50% capacity has the Croatian side as well? It may also eventually condition that the Russian side simply wants to take the whole distribution of gas into the Republic of Croatia by force. We can only rely on the functioning of regulatory agencies and the regulated market. But as I said in this agreement, certain market categories are also placed out of force, which is again understandable from the aspect of the Russian side because they have gas, they can dictate the conditions. Besides, they said, you came at the last minute, so then it was probably just a situation to take or leave. But let's just remember the situation from early autumn, the beginning of winter when the annual forecasts of the European Gas Operators' Association for Croatia provided extremely pessimistic forecasts. And they say Croatia as one of 29 European countries will have the biggest gas supply problems. We hope that signing this contract will put us in a more favourable position for at least this year. The good side of the contract is that it's quite open to further clarifications. And let us hope that diplomacy and the profession will be successful in the negotiations and that we will be able to negotiate something more favourable than these rather brutal statements in certain articles, where the Russian side has indeed made it clear and loud and brutally who is the boss. But the law needs to be supported because we don't have a better one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55340	Thank you very much. As a representative of the promoters, we have exhausted all applications for the debate, State Secretary Natasa Vujec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55341	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. I thank you for your discussion and, above all, I would like to thank all the honourable MPs who have supported the adoption of this proposal and this publication law. I thank you precisely for the reason that by accepting this proposal they also accepted and certainly recognized the main problems that we are facing today in Croatia, and that is one of the main problems is the lack of the market. We don't have a developed gas market, we don't have a developed electricity market. Other markets, let's say, as far as energy is concerned, have started to develop. Still, there's some oil competition. In addition to INA, we have five other distributors in the gas stored here, and now the competition of INA has appeared, and we have no more problem there is Crodux. This is the condition and basis of the basic market liberalisation settings and the basic settings of the European Union Directive. And we of those directives, if we want to join the European Union, if we want to respect everything we have signed with the closure of Chapter 15, we must start to apply and implement it. When I say that this gas pipeline allows the market to develop the same thing, it might seem funny, because we've been importing Russian gas since '78. And now he's giving us some sort of alternative. Yes, it is an alternative for us because the Croatian energy and energy policy market in Croatia has changed over the last 10 years, it has changed since the start of privatisation of energy companies, and it will change even more and much stronger over the next 10 years. And in that period, the most important thing for us is to enter and become part of global and regional energy projects and to stop being locked up in our borders as far as supply opportunities are concerned, above all natural gas, and after that, electricity development is just a little different reason in all of this for the development of the market. So the main set-up and the third package of energy directives is to diversify the source of supply and the construction of interconnectors and connect pipelines connecting transport gas networks of neighbouring countries. This project is a southern stream for us and one interconnector, as well as one new source of supply, as well as a deversion of the source or direction of supply, not only of the source, but of the direction of supply. For this reason, I must also say that this contract, which has been assessed as general, of course works with one position that this generality and indeterminateness of all details, represents one major flaw in the contract. Absolutely on the other hand, that flaw is not a flaw, that flaw is an advantage to us. Because we had the opportunity to sign a very strict and limited contract in which it was even offered to sign both the route and the quantity and absolutely define everything in advance. And in that case, again, I would be in the same situation before you, and I would have to explain, and then I would have to admit that it's actually a flaw. Because what we signed has to stay that way and it can only be done that way. In this situation it is signed that a study will be done, but not an environmental impact study as Mr Beus Richembergh mentioned, but a study of feasibility, feasibility. It used to be called a similarity study. It means a study that will determine which is the most profitable and direction of entry and capacity and possible possibility of connecting that new pipeline with the existing system, and whether there is an option and an option to get out of that pipeline. It means whether there is a possibility that the pipeline can be in the future and transitory or just as it is called by our regulation transport, or delivery to customers in Croatia. So it's absolutely all open and it's all the subject of a study that will define on market economic principles what's best for us and also for Gazprom's partner. Furthermore, with this pipeline and with the entry into the project, we join a group of countries that have individual contracts with Gazprom and the South Stream project if ever achieved, it will be significantly differently realised and it is otherwise conceived from the Nabucco project. Because the project involves one major gas producer, the largest gas supplier for Europe, who signs contracts with each individual country where the pipeline is built, and that these contracts are not interacting, or the contract signed with us has no interaction with the contract signed in Serbia, Hungary or Austria and vice versa. So, "Gasprom" is the one who has gas and wants to sell it on our market, and that's one of the reasons why it is the entire capacity of the pipeline, which was an observation and a note and a comment from many of your representatives who have participated in the debate is why it has full capacity because "Plinacro" or some supplier in Croatia has no gas that would put in that pipeline and send it to someone. Thus, "Gasprom" provides quantities and ensures that the pipeline is 100% charged and that a maximum business result is achieved for the company that participates in the project, which is "Plinacro", and the result of that investment is actually a transport tariff to be paid by each buyer of that gas. It is in short, in general, on this gas pipeline development strategy. I wouldn't mention it much, but I would also just like that project to go south if it was going to happen and when it was going to happen it was a matter of one future. The Nabucco project, which has never been imagined, has neither been invited by the Croatian State nor by the Government can participate in the project. So we couldn't even get involved in this project. Could possibly have been some energy company of ours involved in this project like the RV that got involved, but neither did it. He joined because he owns energy companies in Romania, so he joined. But the fate of all these projects is being prepared for years, especially in the last 20 years, for all energy projects in the world are preparing and even for almost a decade. There's only one country where today's energy projects in the world from the moment of decision making to the beginning of realization can take place in one year, it's China. In all other countries, the implementation of such projects must last at least 5 to 10 and, most often, 15 years, depends, of course, on all possible energy movements and also on the strategic definitions of companies participating in these projects. So our participation and participation of Plinacro in the South Stream is no obstacle to achieving a project to build a LNG terminal, which I also think is necessary and I hope that all preconditions will be created to move forward with this project. Here, this is briefly all I wanted to say except for two very short notes regarding Article 9. So Article 9 may be clumsyly formulated in the Croatian part, but it represents absolutely nothing but what today is a common practice in the construction or distribution of low-pressure networks or, say, a master gas pipeline built by Plinacro. So, part of the land for the route to be determined, and as a rule, the route that is most suitable and on which it is possible to realise or buy land or enroll the right of service will be set aside for the purpose of building that pipeline and a complete transport network in Croatia has been realised in the same way. So I wouldn't factor that out from some common normal practice. In Article 10, a clumsy formulation also works, especially when we read it in Croatian and all of these formulas would be written more beautifully that they are written and that the contract is written in Croatian. The contract is theoretically in English is the one that is rightful, and then it is translated into Croatian so it represents a compromise translation both from Russian and English. However, this Article 10th and the part relating to the accelerated return of value added tax again again constitutes a common practice where value added tax is returned to the investor until income is realised after that investment, until it begins to earn a profit. That's how they taught me, explained from the Ministry of Finance. I would not now detail this, but it states in that article that it is all in accordance with the applicable legislation. Therefore, in that part, we do not deviate from regulations that are logical and normal to implement. Thank you very much. I'd be done with that. I might be able to comment on something else, but thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55342	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. This is what I'm finishing this point with. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55343	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between Vada of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in Construction and Use of Gas pipelines in the State Area of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 558. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between Vada of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and use of pipelines in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 100 votes for, 4 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55344	And now we're going to the sixth point. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sanitary Inspection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 550 The amendment and addition of the law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. We've received a report from the board's session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor first? He does. Dr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Here is a proposal to amend and supplement the Sanitary Inspection Act. Namely, as already happens, after the Law on Sanitary Inspection was adopted in September 2008, the implementation of the law was joined, but also the monitoring of implementation. In the work of sanitary inspection in the Republic of Croatia over the past year and a few days certain, a year and a half almost days have been observed, certain shortcomings have been observed and changes and additions have been made to enable the sanitary inspection to meet its purpose. What we can point out to you in this bill, in particular, except for the very important and principled fact that the Law on Sanitary Inspection refers to the protection of public-health interests. It is also necessary to say that the changes ahead of you in any case in the area of sampling and proof part of the sanitary inspector will allow for more quality processing of certain, therefore not only infringers but also those who, not in their overall activities, are breaking the law. In that proposal, therefore, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to amend and supplement the question of sampling where photo documentation is provided as evidence of irregularities detected by the sanitary inspector. Furthermore, in the part where the sanitary inspector is officially in charge of the proceedings, if the proceedings are conducted at the request of the party, and there is no basis for the official conduct of the procedure, that the party, as such, be financed in a manner that is the case of a further procedure, i.e. the sanitary inspector, and that measures are tightened, and these are measures where repeated infringements may be imposed for the same offence. This means that in the case of a first infringement, this activity is carried out in a particular part, so whether it is equipment, whether it can be prohibited by space for eight to thirty days and, if repeated, it can take up to six months. Also, here I can say now in the opening statement we have also received the conclusion, the draft laws on amendments and additions to the SDP club law where we must state that these conclusions would not be accepted for two reasons. First, as we asked for urgent reading for the application of the procedures mentioned in this law for the reason that we consider it especially now before the tourist season in order to strengthen the behaviour of sanitary inspectors. Second, the Sanitary Inspection Act does not conflict with the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, as Article 80(1) of the Law states that the first degree of inspection is carried out by the State Department of Radiological and Nuclear Security. However, paragraph 2 also states that in the second instance it is carried out by a sanitary inspection. In paragraph 3, the border inspection shall also be carried out by the State Department of Radiological and Nuclear Security in cooperation with the inspection of imports, transport and export of sources. So we believe that there is no basis for amending the Law on Sanitary Inspection in that part, but that inspection surveillance can be carried out in accordance with both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55346	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. On behalf of the committee, will the rapporteurs take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Health and Social Care Committee, Dr. Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55347	Thank you very much. The Health Committee discussed as the home working body in accordance with Article 76a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament the preliminary explanation given by the applicant representative and explained that the proposed amendments and additions to the laws are governed by the Sanitary Inspection of the Affairs of Inspectorate over the implementation of the laws and regulations governing the protection of the health of citizens, and in the field of public health interests, in addition to the current text of the same article. The proposed law regulates the understanding of living rooms declared as a business space as well as means of transport and the like in which a supervised legal and natural person is found to carry out the approved activity. Sanitary inspectors shall also be authorised to prohibit the use of working and auxiliary premises for a period of six months in the framework of any other legislation of the prescribed powers and measures provided that the same deficiencies are re-established. The members of the Committee consider that, with these amendments, the sanitary inspection strengthens the position of the headquarters of the health conservation institution. In her work so far, the sanitary inspection has shown good organisation and efficiency, and the proposed changes will further improve her work. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sanitary Inspection in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55348	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate now. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ club, counterpart Stjepan Kundić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55349	Dear Mr. Vice President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. The current Law on Sanitary Inspection entered into force on 1 January 2009. Why change and supplement now? Namely, the proposed amendments and additions to the applicable law are regulated that the sanitary inspection carries out the inspection tasks of law enforcement and other regulations governing the protection of human health and in the field of public interest, as Professor Hebrang said. I will now highlight two articles that are important and the essence of this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of So, the sanitary inspection carries out inspection tasks of law enforcement and other regulations that determine the protection of human health in these areas. First, to prevent and prevent infectious diseases, then to produce and place food on the market including genetically modified food and novel food, and genetically modified organisms. Furthermore, in the case of the production and placing on the market of general use items, after production, placing on the market and use of dangerous chemicals, and then placing on the market and use of biocidal products,... from noise protection and protection against ionising and non-ionising radiation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The inspections referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be carried out on buildings, facilities, premises and devices, equipment in the field of health, education, social care, hospitality, tourism, crafts and services, sports and recreation and transport, and in other public places. The legislative proposal also specify the rights and obligations and powers of the sanitary inspector. In order to protect public health interests, it is regulated, in the exercise of inspection supervision, to authorise a supervised legal or physical person to prohibit the use of working and auxiliary rooms, i.e. space, facilities, devices, accessories and equipment for carrying out activities for 8 to 30 days if the deficiencies are identified for the first time, or for a period of 30 days to 6 months, if the same deficiencies are identified second and each time counting from the date of adoption of the first oral solution. The proposed solution provides the basis for the effective handling of sanitary inspectors, and all for consistent application of the rules by which implementation ensures the protection of human life and health. And now I have said, I will mention another article, that is 31, in the exercise of inspection supervision of the activities prescribed by law to be entered in the register of the ministry, or that, in order to carry out the same, the ministry must first obtain a solution, the inspector shall be authorised by a supervised legal or physical person until it removes the shortcomings in the oral solution temporarily prohibiting the carrying out of that activity and immediately access to the implementation of the solution, in accordance with the provisions of Article 33(1) of this Act, without adopting a special act authorising the implementation of the solution in the following cases. First, if the activity is carried out without enrolment in the prescribed register of the ministry and second, if the activity is carried out without the Secretary’s solution. At the request of the party, a correction of the oral solution has been made, shall be made within eight days of the date of adoption of the oral solution. The Croatian Democratic Community will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sanitary Inspection with the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55350	Thanks a lot, buddy. On behalf of the SDP club, a colleague, Zdenko Franic, applied for the debate. Here's my colleague Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55351	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the 19th of September 2008 we discussed the Law on Sanitary Inspection, and now after a year and a half after that we discuss the amendments and additions of this law again, we heard the explanation of the Secretary of State that the haste, the reason for the haste, is to approach the tourist season, but the question is why we did not do it much earlier when we had already seen that this law, which was passed in 2008, was not included in the area of protection of public health interest as part of the work of the sanitary inspection. The doctrine of public health is probably the most spectacular export product of the Republic of Croatia of all time, according to it is equal to more than half the population of the globe, it is known that our academic doctor Dr Andrija Stampar was also co-founder of the World Health Organization, writer and its statutes, therefore public health is not some newspaper in the Republic of Croatia and could be far earlier and better implemented and implemented in our legislation, even in this Law on Sanitary Inspection. But here we are, by some paved rules, rather making changes and additions to various laws, in order to correct this legislation that we bring in the current tape. Why, for example, did we not put this aspect in these changes, the public health aspect relating to the need for tourism or catering facilities to have HASAP, it is the only standard that is mandatory to have, is not necessarily certified, but when sanitary inspectors come into control, then workers, tourist workers, catering workers have to answer specific questions precisely, to prove that they have a HASAP management system and that they adhere to it. However, the question arises who educated the sanitary inspectors, and who certified them to investigate compliance with the HasAP standard? Why we didn't include it in this law when we're already improving it to protect public health interests. I welcome these segments relating to aid in causing and processing, etc. The law itself, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, is not something you should not accept, but once we have already passed it, then we should think about it a little better, in order to make more comprehensive changes, if it has already been seen that this law that we passed in September 2008 had some shortcomings. So we also brought in March of this year and the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, according to which we accepted that the newly created body of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security has a first degree inspection relating to radioactive materials and ionising radiation, while the Ministry of Health is conducting administrative supervision in the second degree. Such a solution is also consistent with the fact that the independence of the State Institute for radiation protection and the State Department for Nuclear Safety, which at that time existed and later... in one of the only institutions, their independence has been negotiated by the state authorities, including the inspection, as outlined in the negotiating chapter 15. [[You don't understand.]] Energy. And that independence was one of the criteria for closing this chapter. However, certain expressions that remain valid in the Law on Sanitary Inspection are, if not in the conflict, extremely ambiguous in relation to the terms proposed, or adopted by the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, and I believe that this debate on amendments and amendments to the law is welcome to the situation of the IC. Any misunderstandings are removed, explained, conditioned, and precisely specified who is responsible in which case. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The Radiological and Nuclear Security Act says that the supervision of this is carried out by the National Institute of Radiological and Nuclear Security in collaboration with the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health, while it is an expression in the Sanitary Inspectorate Act that the sanitary inspector conducts this surveillance without mentioning any State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security. Such inaccuracies create legal uncertainty, the possibility of manipulation, dual interpretations. So exactly the opposite of what we want to achieve with the adoption of legal solutions. If you do not wish, Mr. Secretary of State, that the law goes into another reading, then you, you have the right to do so, simply amend it to specify those expressions that are not best now in line. It has until the end of this session, whether the vote on the law is now on Friday or next Friday, because I think it would be very, very welcome, and in fact a minimal intervention that would only show the good will of your ministry, which is the other way forward of both laws. And this on amendments and additions to the Sanitary Inspection Act as well as the proposal of the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. And thus, for both the Republic of Croatia, the Government and the Parliament would also show that they are seriously respecting already negotiated and closed chapters so as not to come into a situation where doubtful statements may raise the question of the reopening of the chapter because some of the criteria that are positively assessed are questionable. At the same time, the Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, his Excellency Mohamed el Baradai, asked the Croatian delegation at the meeting of the General Assembly of the International Agency exactly the question of the independence of the regulatory and administrative body dealing with radiation protection because the situation of the inspection was not resolved as imposed by international practice and practice of the International Atomic Energy Agency. And dear Mr. Secretary of State, here I appeal to you to correct all possible recommendations with minimum interventions, and indeed contribute to this welcome law because the public-health interest is one of the strongest interests in public protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55352	Thank you very much. And now on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55353	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The HNS and HSU Club will accept this proposal and support the bill's amendment and addition, but we would like to take the opportunity just as I did to the Health Committee, to point out one inaccuracies that can be very, very awkward in practice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So if this is done consistently and literally, we're going to have a lot of problems. Namely, there are 3. We can say with one lex specialis and 4 laws, which define who persons are in charge of representing, or authorized to represent in legal persons. First of all, it is about the Law on Commercial Society, it is about the Law on Institutions, and it is about the Law on Associations, because these are legal persons who are tanging this law because they are persons who can deal with such activities in which a sanitary inspection is necessary or desirable. These laws indicate who persons are in charge of representation and representation. It's just those people who sign up for registers. Whether it is a company register, whether it is an association register, or whether it is an institution register. In any case, it is the person whose name and name is entered in the register. This person responsible shall not transfer his or her right of representation to anyone without a decision by the competent authority of a legal person in a specific case or the assembly or supervisory board of a company or of a board of directors of an institution or of an executive or management board of an association. The only thing that can be done as representation, and by special law, is legal representation when authorised by a lawyer. So in that sense, we suggested that this statement be specified and that it be spoken of as a responsible person. Because one person is a person to represent in a business system that e.g. There are 15 different separate drives in which there are parts that are subject to the sanitary inspection. Let's say it could be cafes, that it could be restaurants, that it could be not know caterering kitchens, that it could be any other form of closed type when it comes to buildings or public kitchens of the Red Cross, when it comes to resorts for children, etc. So, in this case, we are talking about a responsible person who can be the chef, who can be the head of an outpost or head of a particular business unit. Such an expression indicates that if a director, or a member of a company’s management, if the director of an institution or unless the head of an association is present at the sanitary inspection, that means that that legal person did not allow the supervision to be carried out. Finally, it may occur that the person who is simply on the official path is not physically present. However, if the person responsible in the drive concerned is present, then we do not see any reason not to fix or replace the person designated for representation by the person responsible or to add to the person designated for representation or the person responsible. And that would actually solve everything, because otherwise it would be difficult to prove the sustainability of this provision because especially in large hotel companies, in restaurant chains it is impossible to practically ensure the presence of a person in charge of representation. If at all possible, we suggest that you correct that statement until the adoption. I think the statement that we're proposing completely affects the meaning of what you wanted, because in that sense, you've given an explanation to the Health Committee itself, and we don't see any reason why this change wouldn't happen. So, with that one note and the proposal, we accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55354	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the club application. We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55355	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. So here's this amendment to the law to improve the work of the sanitary inspection of one of the supervisory services with the longest history within a country whose prevention of potential threats is really the issue. I can't say that I have any objection to these amendments to the law, except for this more precise definition of the person representing what the colleagues were saying, what we discussed on the Health Committee and what a colleague of the HNS was saying now. It is good that the law now says that the inspection is carrying out surveillance in the field of protection of public health interests, and that I can document with photography the state I hold well for any lawsuits against the inspectors. But what can be controversial, and what was before these changes, and now even more so to increase the volume of work of sanitary inspectors, is actually the amount of diversity of affairs carried out by the sanitary inspector. I believe that sanitary inspectors should, if this is in any way possible to educate or specialize in an area, for example. health correctness of food. Here in my county of Dubrovnik-Neretva County it's a gross job, doing of course tourism, because you know that we have during the season and increasing citizens and increasing actually by 80%. So they're also doduced in this regard. Of course, they could still do other jobs. As for the field inspection work, I'd say a few words about those bad sides that aren't the health inspectors who do their job well. Like that. There is no official vehicle on the Korčula sanitary inspection, if they haven't received it recently, but they have to be driven by their own vehicle and paid for a smaller number of kilometers that pass through their work. I think it's kind of 30 km, but it doesn't satisfy the needs because the island is large and of course the terrain they cover is large. Furthermore, in Dubrovnik, the inspection only recently received the internet with the help of the Public Health Institute. What do we think of that? The inspection wouldn't have the Internet in the 21st century. It's also the problem of official cell phones. Like last year, you couldn't get a sanitary inspector no matter what happened. And one more thing, the number of people working in the sanitary inspection, unfortunately, is currently only four inspectors. There were six of them, currently only four inspectors. I support the quality process of breaking the laws mentioned in these amendments, but there remains a problem that I have said about the terrain, which is an insufficient possibility of perfecting, lack of equipment, lack of finance. And I hope that further work will certainly continue to work to improve the sanitary inspection or the work of sanitary inspectors, because we know of what importance they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55356	Thank you very much to the honourable representative. There are no more applications for discussion. In conclusion, the esteemed secretary, Dr. Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55357	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm obliged to give a few answers. Here, I re-examined it once more, so it wouldn't be here, in Article 11. The Law on Sanitary Inspection, meaning the original law, states which work in the field of radiological and nuclear security, which the work of the sanitary inspector does not speak of is the first and second stage. And the compliance of this law with the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act does not pose any question and no question, as, in accordance with all the provisions of Article 11 of that Law, sanitary inspectors will exercise as much power as they have under that Act and under the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. So it is known that they work in the second degree as sanitary inspectors in the state, it is known that they work in the first degree as far as border inspection is concerned, therefore it is not disputed. I will remind you, both laws are in line with the European Union directives and there were no objections in that section or when Chapter 15 was closed. As far as other matters are concerned, so in Article 4 of this bill, we say a person designated for a degree by a supervised legal or natural person. That means we're not going in, we're not saying that there has to be a responsible person in a legal person, we're not saying that it should be even a particularly authorised person because it's not an authorized person who's under the Company Act but a responsible person in a legal person, and the authorized person is the person who receives the authorisation. After all, I have the authority for something within the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. But we said it was a certain person for representation by an administrative or physical person, so according to the discussion we had on the board. We say clearly and loudly that if the person responsible in the legal person does not designate a person for representation in the part when inspection supervision is carried out in accordance with the article of this law we will consider that it did not allow the exercise of supervision. We practically identify as if the person locked the space and wouldn't allow the inspectors access. That's what this is about. So that's the system because we've had a situation of trying to avoid inspection surveillance not one more than leaving space and on the side of the criminal courts, that's what I'm publicly saying here. We couldn't process such processes because there were no such provisions at this time. This provision means that it will not be able to be prosecuted for the offence committed, but it will be able to be processed in the other part, which is to prevent the exercise of inspection supervision. That's why we think this formulation is as good as that. And I would especially mention and thank you for these warnings here, it is true that the sanitary inspection in the Republic of Croatia works very well, that it works in conditions that are possible. We had, we used pre-accession funds, we should say both CARDS 2003 and CARDA 2004. These are funds to strengthen the sanitary inspection where it went right into educational strengthening, which means that the quality of education has been provided on the HasAP programme as well as on other programmes, that it goes according to the specializations of sanitary inspectors specialised in the work of those dealing with GMOs, those dealing with radiologically, those dealing with other parts of the sanitary inspection and so that certain technical assistance has been obtained from these funds, including information technology and everything else. So it's in further development and it's clear that it's not completely over and I believe that when it's over that this situation on the ground will be much better. We are aware of the situation in which we are, we believe and thank from this place all sanitary inspectors because we really need to say in the Republic of Croatia from the area of health protection and what health inspectors control so far we do not record any major excesses or any major problem. I think it's just their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55358	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met as well as the other points. It's close to seven, so we'll be done with today's work. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and start with point 7. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-30-0.u55359	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sanitary Inspection, Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 550. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club has proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads as follows: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sanitary Inspection, P.Z. The number 550 is referred to in the second reading. 2. All objections and proposals from the debate will be addressed to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the text of the final draft law. During the debate, the applicant's representative did not accept this proposal as a conclusion. I am voting on the proposal to conclude the SDP's Club of Representatives. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for a conclusion was not accepted. The vote was 41, nothing abstentions and 70 against. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Sanitary Inspection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 86 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 10 against. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we continue to work, with the agenda item announced this morning, which is - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 540 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The government has submitted amendments and they become an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee, as well as by MP Furio Radin. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior. Here you go.
