ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47585	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you, good morning, good morning at the beginning of the debate on this point. So, as you know, the government has laid down a proposal for a decision to appoint a state-of-the-art attorney. The government suggests that in the new term of office, Mr. Mladen Bajic is appointed as the state's chief attorney, i.e. to vote. There's a lot of reasons why the government decided on a proposal like this. I will present some of them in this introduction, therefore speaking about the government's proposal, and teaching in the assembly will remain the minister of justice, Mr Ivan Šimonović, and give further possible explanations, if necessary. So, briefly on why the government believes Mr. Mladen Bajic still needs to act as chief state attorney, so as far. First of all, we think that Mr. Bajic has been leading the state's attorney's office for the past few years, making big steps, doing his job primarily honorably. But what is important, of course, within the framework of the regulations and for the government, is important that the government has tried, and we believe that the government has succeeded, together with the MPs, to build a legislative system, to improve it. Therefore, what is called the legislative framework for the functioning and the state's attorneyship and all other bodies that must be held accountable for the respect of legality, for the implementation of the law. And finally what we are very interested in fighting corruption and any form of crime. If you'll excuse me, I might remind you at the beginning of what the State's Attorney's office is actually doing, what are the jobs. Somehow, we seem to be losing sight of this sometimes, so the State's Attorney's office in law enforcement cases requires criminal research to be conducted by the police, asking for data from other State authorities, deciding on criminal charges, and certainly that the State's attorney is responsible for the conduct of criminal proceedings. I don't think it's irrelevant at the beginning of this debate to remember who can actually do the work of a state's attorney, or, of course, in this case, the attorney general. Therefore, it must meet the law of the envisaged conditions. A person who has acted as a judicial officer for at least 15 years or so may be appointed as a general and special appointment conditions in the State Attorney's Office, therefore a person who has acted as a judicial officer in judicial bodies for at least 15 years or at least as long as he has been a lawyer, public notary, a university professor of legal science who has been subject to a course of judicial examination and at least 15 years of working experience after a judicial examination or a respected lawyer with a legal examination and at least 20 years of working experience which has been demonstrated by his professional work and in a particular legal area, as well as professional and scientific works. I point out this at the beginning of this debate and with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because I think these facts should be clarified immediately at the beginning. So the attorney general can't be anyone. This is the conclusion that is imposed when all the rules that are the framework for the appointment, i.e. the selection of the attorney general, are examined. In any event, it should be noted here that the exceptional efforts taken by the State Attorney's Office to protect state property through the promotion and warning of the need to register state property, collect data and book itself and through the conduct of litigation and other proceedings. So, then, we can assess the complexity of the work of a state attorney, i.e. the State's Attorney's Office. I said at the beginning that I would back this proposal with some data, so here are the ladies and gentlemen, so let's analyze the last year of 2009 when the State's Attorney's office had a little bit more or less, excuse me, than 54,000 criminal charges against known perpetrators. And in the cases of the previous year, when this is summed up, where investigations or criminal research have been conducted, it was a little less than 64,000 applications or, more specifically, 63929 applications. 53,000 applications have been resolved. Therefore, this is an information that should certainly be relevant and should be taken into account when discussing the effectiveness of the work of the State's Attorney's Office. So, at the end of the year, he remained in the state's attorneys' offices to settle 89 criminal charges. And this should be compared to the fact that at the end of 2001, when there were a little more than 7400 applications left in the State's Attorney's Office, that is, state's attorneys. It was a time when Mr. Mladen Bajic began his work as chief state attorney. With regard to the very work on criminal cases, it should be pointed out that success in the procedure is good. So, the State's Attorney's Office succeeds with 87 of its charges, and even in those cases when it received a release sentence it succeeds with half of its appeals. It is certainly also a fact to be taken into account. So I think it talks primarily about the seriousness of this body's work, the good decision-making within the state's attorney's office and systematic and precise work. I also think it is good to point out that during last year 2009. The state's attorney's office had 200 thousand civil and administrative cases, of which 125 thousand judicial cases representing the state, the ministry, other state bodies, but the state in the full sense of the word. So I'm sure you're all aware of how much work is on these items and complex, and I often think that I can say that maybe we're not fully aware of how much effort is being made to solve these problems that remain far from the public's eyes. That's for sure. Ladies and gentlemen, certainly when the government decided to propose to you Mr Mladen Bajic for a state attorney in the next term of office, that we were certainly considering the fact that we were also working with the International Criminal Court, the fact that this is one of the important issues at this point in the conclusion of Croatia's accession negotiations with the European Union, certainly related to Chapter 23, and I do not think it is irrelevant to point out that he has just been working with the main state attorney, and points out as an extremely good and chief Hague prosecutor, Mr Braummertz. Of course, as Prime Minister, they can also speak in this context about cooperation in terms of finding and documents, activities related to administrative investigation. Clearly, everyone was doing their job, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, as far as administrative investigations are concerned in finding documents, and after that work so-called. Task Force, therefore, a group that studies the entire documentation found, but performs a number of other activities. The state's attorney's office and his role in the process where it was inevitable, and certainly great support. It should also be pointed out that 6 indictments have already been brought out of criminal charges and charges that we have three convictions in these cases and that, of course, we should not forget the role of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the Attorney General. I will mention here and the establishment of USKOK and certainly the fact that the path from the establishment of USKOK to today has not always been easy, and I think we can say that today the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime is working successfully on organised crime cases and particularly corruption cases, of course in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We should also mention some facts and some data here, about how and how successful it has been, so I will say, of course, in this political environment a few words that seem extremely important to me, when we talk about fighting corruption, when we talk about zero tolerance in this big, sometimes really hard work, because many are resisting it. So I think, and that's the point that, I think we share both government and parliamentary representatives, or the Croatian Parliament, and the State's Attorney's Office, that the fight against corruption must continue to be ruthless, that we must fear nothing and fear no one, that we must not give up. Of course, it must not give up on political will, but it must not give up on everything that we together have to create the Government, the Croatian Parliament, and this is a legislative framework, uninterrupted if it is necessary to improve the legislative framework, but it must certainly not run out of money. In this regard, the first word of course has a government through the adoption of the budget, so it was in the 2010 budget and so it will continue to be. In the fight against corruption, when we talk about political will, we must all be equally determined, and by that I mean the following. So don't point a finger at another, and don't encourage a fight against corruption just when she didn't come to my yard. So you can fight corruption, but in this space no, it's protected, because here by some logic old, and there's no corruption. Regardless of the name, last name, party membership, so and without, of course, prejudice in that sense, I think it is extremely important, to fight corruption without prejudice, so regardless of the political party and without, or avoid the dangers that we may face on that path. So if it's against someone who belongs to a political party that someone thinks is logical, then it's a fight against corruption, and if it's against someone who belongs to another political party, then we call it political persecution. So, no matter what, I repeat my name and last name, and if we achieve a lasting political consensus around it, I think we'll have even better results. I also call from this pay phone when we are talking about this, and about the State's Attorney's Office, anyone who encounters examples of corruptive action, encounters examples of illegal work to report it to the competent state authorities, i.e. USKOK, or the State's Attorney's Office. In my work as Prime Minister, I have done so, I call on others to do so, and to argue on the political scene who is the major anti-corruption fighter absolutely weakens our common effect. Because while we're fighting, thieves work. So I think it is today, and this will be the moment when we are discussing in a broader context the work of the State's Attorney's Office and the problem that, therefore, we really agree, to agree on how we're going to work. I would take this opportunity and invite all those people who do their job with honor and integrity, for example in public enterprises, to do their job freely, without fear, because some of the investigations that we have naturally witnessed, one part of the people in some way probably, I will say very openly, perhaps scared. Therefore, there is no fear for those who work honestly, those who uphold the law and those who are in no way involved in any dishonest shop. So you do your job, the results will be in all areas and the results will be, and the fight against corruption is also a struggle to strengthen the economy and certainly fight for the human rights of every human, every citizen and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that even in the fight against corruption, the State's Attorney's Office has certainly shown that it absolutely follows and respects the fundamental principle and that it affirms it. Zero tolerance to corruption, so persecution of perpetrators of criminal acts regardless of the amount of benefit acquired by committing corruptive crimes. Here's ladies and gentlemen, I've only presented a few reasons why we think the government thinks Mr. Mladen Bajic deserves the government's trust. The government trusts, therefore, the coalition as a whole. And I suggest that he get the trust of both your representative and your representative at the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47586	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. The chairman of the Justice Committee, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47587	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the Committee on the Justice of the Croatian Parliament at the 41st session held on 2 February 2010 discussed the proposal for a decision to appoint the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, which was addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 21 January 2010. Following the debate, the Committee identified the previous opinion as a majority of the votes. The proposal for a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is supported by the Croatian Parliament president to appoint Mladen Bajic as chief state attorney for the Republic of Croatia. Explanation: pursuant to the provision of Art. Article 124(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Paragraph 93 is replaced by the following: The Law on the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia appoints the Croatian Parliament at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the preliminary opinion of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 73. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Justice Committee shall give a preliminary opinion on the appointment and resolution of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer representative, the justice minister explained the government's proposal by the government proposing Mladen Bajic as chief state attorney. He stressed that in the previous term of the main state attorney, important developments were made in the organisational and personnel team of the State's attorney, the urgency of the procedures at the level of the EU countries' urgency, the persecution of war crimes perpetrators, the legislative framework for the implementation of the fight against corruption and organised crime that began to produce results as well as the successful development of international co-operation. In his address, the main state lawyer, the Republic of Croatia, pointed out that the work of the State's Attorney's Office has been systematically monitored by the Croatian Parliament through a debate on the annual work report. Last year's primate in the work of the Croatian State Attorney's Office, further fight against corruption and the processing of war crimes, why good assumptions were created by the adoption of the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Police Powers. In the debate, most board members supported the proposal by the government of the Republic of Croatia on the appointment of Mladen Bajic as chief state attorney. It has been pointed out that during the past 8 years, the main state lawyer, the Croatian Parliament, has regularly accepted reports on the work of the State's Attorney's Office. It is also suggested to the main state attorney to pay more attention to more effective and independent treatment in the civil-legal sphere of the State's attorney's office in addition to the priorities set out. It is a minority view that the proposal for the appointment of Mladen Bajic does not contain a critical reference. That the expected involvement of the State's Attorney's Office in certain cases is absent and that the work of the State's Attorney's Office must be based on autonomy. Following the above, the majority of the votes identified the previous opinion submitted to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47588	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47589	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed House. Some time ago, in one book, I came across a great definition of what a quality combination is. It's about the book of an economist, the Nobel Prize winner of Stiglitz, and says the book reviewer is a combination, a combination of two of the brightest qualities. The intelligence of forensics and barbecues, enthusiasm, commitment of the prosecutor, the state's attorney. So that barbecue, enthusiasm, commitment, uncompromisingness, is exactly what we unfortunately haven't seen in the work and relation to the tasks of Mr Mladen Bajic, the state's attorney for the past 8 years. And given that today, on the government's proposal as a legally authorised proposing, we are discussing giving confidence for the next four years, we believe that this trust for another four years has not been earned. So we're not talking here about the opposition seeking someone's responsibility and someone's deviation right now as in the case of ministers, in the case of the government. This is about a man, a professional, doing his job for 8 years, and there were good things in those 8 years, but also very much less good things that, for the next 4 years, for another 3 years, a total of 12 years of mandates on such an important duty, unfortunately, do not recommend him. So, at first, please, and I will try to contribute to that by my debate, and I believe that the others will try to speak in a way that separates us personally from the professional, principled and principled. This isn't a request for someone to step down. At the end of the line, we've had the opportunity in the parliamentary procedure for such a thing for the past two years when we've voted negatively on the state's attorney's report. But we didn't seek categorically his deviation. We never started that debate. The second term of four years has expired, a total of 8 years, and now it is proposed that Mr. Bajic does his job for another 4 years. We're not up for it. Madam Prime Minister has led here to quote the law who is all qualified to be the attorney general. And finally concluded that it couldn't be anyone, of course it couldn't be anyone, especially in this structural, character part of the job. But when she listed all the professions, all the categories of legal professions of professional, academic, judicial, listening carefully, you also listened to those who may be less involved or less monitored, you concluded that this definition actually includes a broad circle of people. All those who, 15 years after having passed the judicial exam, worked a whole series of jobs, the judiciary, the state's attorney's office, not only the state's attorney's office, the constitutional category, lawyers, so-called legal science, etc., there's a very broad number of people, even maybe too wide, maybe so wide that the whole story gives one political connotation. Mr. Bajic is a state lawyer and the work of a state lawyer in the Croatian legal system and according to the Croatian Constitution is an independent, independent business, but still the next fact that the Croatian government is proposing it, so the political majority that has the majority in the representative body is necessarily politically colored. The task of the state's attorney is that this political pressure that can happen in the nature of things can be categorically and strongly resisted and that is how it works and that is how it works. What's the difference between a state's attorney and a politician? And why does a state lawyer in the Croatian system where the government proposes it, and where it does not go to free elections like in some US federal states why it is important not to be a politician, not to be political, and what makes it different from politicians? A politician, if he acts according to the law, is allowed to ignore some more tactical and strategic goals for a moment and to look two three steps ahead to achieve these goals, in other words it is allowed to tactile is not allowed to violate the law. How convincing that tactics is, honestly, will effectively decide at the end of the voter. But for a state attorney at every level, the situation is different. The state's attorney, all his strategy and tactics, starts and ends in a single case, no broad horizons. In addition to perhaps the government's principle policy to hit hard on corruption, organised crime, child abuse, it is a political corridor in which it can be moved, but there is no tactics, beginning and end of any tactics and strategy for the state's attorney is a specific subject. If that item ends up in a drawer, or if it's not done like we should have a problem. The justice minister, the current justice minister, a prominent diplomat, told a non-party person several weeks ago in an authorised interview that it was clearly untouchable in the past period before the law. After that statement, both on the radio and in an interview in a daily Croatian newspaper, there were no reactions to politics, nor the Prime Minister, nor the state's attorney. So, the state's attorney who's been doing his job for the last eight years. The statement by the Minister of Justice certainly did not refer to the period before 2000, not since 2002, but probably during his term of office for the last few years, the last two years, it was clearly untouchable. What is the job of a state's attorney and above all the state's attorney who has to have that grill, that commitment, that uncompromising, that enthusiasm that his job is if that's what it is? His job is to pull the ship's siren at the same time and point the finger at those or the police who are making it impossible for him to do his job or those in the political power that are causing his problems, and these problems were obviously also kept quiet. And that fact, unfortunately for us, disqualifies the candidate for the state's attorney for another four years of office. It's a political fact she's even publicly admitted. There are various cases, the Brodosplit case is cited as a situation where the state's attorney, be careful now, against police obstructions, has taken action. As the police were making trouble, the police were inactive, it's a state's attorney's job in that and in all other cases. But what happened in the police which is part of the Ministry of the Interior unfortunately is not sufficiently independent and unfortunately not procedurally independent of the Minister himself, as is the case in some Western European countries. That's why we have problems. In that same Split where shifts are now being announced at the police station, the same police problems were warned two years ago. In the meantime, not me, we all saw that in the meantime only the interim director of the police, the former police director who is now not anymore than the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior because he warned about these problems and wanted some changes, wanted new people. That's not allowed. So that system has deep internal problems it's a political assessment. In these problems lived a state lawyer whose task was that if not the first day, if he had not already made clear, the second day of troubles and said these people are making problems, these people do not want to do the work on which they are legally, professionally ethically and sworn, the oath is binding. He didn't do it and that's why he was responsible for the inaction, for... he had to do it, so nothing personal. Nothing sentimental, nothing emotional, nothing facts. Once again, I stress that this is not about calling for anyone to move or laugh, it is about the Parliament's confidence in the Croatian government's proposal as a legal proposal to give another person another three years. Third term, four more years of office. It is implicit and some kind of recognition that in Croatia in all these categories of people experts, there is no one who could do this job better, I do not say more professionally, better, more determined. Because qualified, formally qualified for this job according to this legal definition has a lot, there are probably hundreds of formal and really, don't tell me that there aren't at least 20 people who are professional and who are determined to do this job. This isn't about looking for a neurosurgeon, or an atomic physicist who has one 500km or three states, and no one has such fine fingers, such patience and such training, and that only one can do that job. This job can do more people, it's a willing element, it's the most important thing here. They've got a lot of expertise. So, if it was untouchable, and obviously it was, then the state's attorney is expected to act like Elliot Ness and not resonate in our own way, yours, it can't be, while the system of state's attorney is what it is. While the state's attorney proposes the government as a representative of the parliamentary majority, it must be independent and independent. We agree there's one logical thing here if you want ethical dilemma. How can a person who has to be independent and independent be completely proposed by the Government? But we do have an example with the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Judges also by an imperfect procedure which we are now going to do little in the context of constitutional changes, and they are actually proposed by the political majority, the Parliament. So they're the result of some deal in the Parliament. So after they get their term of office for eight years, they're basically untouchable. They are expected to do their job under the law, to be strict and to completely ignore which regions they came from, who may have been their political sponsor at that time. I know it's not an easy expectation, but it should be an expectation. It is cited as an example, and I ask you not to fall for it, that until recently the problem was in the imperfect Law of Criminal Procedure. As the Code of Criminal Procedure and made it impossible for a state attorney to do his job and now that it's changed, everything's great, now it's good. So it turns out that the police actually used the imperfections of the Criminal Procedure Act and the State Attorney's Office to prevent quality investigation. If that's really how it is, and I hope that wasn't the intensity to say it, then it's really bad. So it turns out that the old law couldn't work, and we know that the police also used certain holes in that law to trip the state's attorney's office. It's a very dangerous thesis and I hope it's accidentally spoken. And according to old law, whoever wanted to do his job could have done his job. It's over. For four more years, we will not support Mr. Bajic for principled reasons. It is your conscience to determine whether Croatia has any, and whether the Government can propose someone who can do this job more resolutely, more uncompromisingly and without any influence or pressure, and be here we keep saying that to Elliot Ness from those criminal movies. So, a person whose moral law is only a criterion and who is thus self-oriented. If not, no. But we will admit that Croatia is a hostage in the fight against one person's corruption for another four years. And that if that person changes that nothing will change and we're standing in place. Is that really so? We don't think so. And I'm going to pray that this one, so I agree that fighting corruption is not a good thing to do, that it's not a good idea to give in to others, but there are some things we have to say openly. Let's say, Madam Prime Minister, a week ago here in her current class, she openly called for a suitable morning, certain members of the SDP or those associated with the SDP members, in response to a provocative question from the SDP bench. So she mentioned a marriage mate, one of our MPs, although she said she wouldn't, but she mentioned it. So she mentioned one small municipality chief in Dubrovnik County of 900 inhabitants, the head of the municipality of Mljet who dared watch out now Urbi et orbi to hear the Croatian public, who more than three years ago and three years ago it was in the drawer of gentlemen, dared to sell hundreds of hectares of land on the island, which he claims, has documentation that they owned the municipalities. And the state whose representatives were some of the MPs here attacked him because he dared to sell state grounds. So, to everyone, it doesn't have to be a lawyer, it'll be clear that this is about a civil dispute, where the principled municipalities may be stubbornly wrong, but they believe that they're not wrong to sell and put the amount at the expense, they're selling something that they think is municipal, not private, not grandmother, not did. The state of Croatia acts as a Pest or as a Vienna. I won't, it's mine. So it's a civilian dispute that's been in the drawer for three years. Prime Minister, please, if you can't urinate to at least encourage within your powers to finally get rid of this case. It's about people fighting for their own. It's not a robbery, it's a big difference. And finally, Koprivnica on what sweaty palms we expect, in a positive atmosphere, that after three years, three years of full familiarity and law enforcement and police in Koprivnica, with every detail of the sale of land in Pirovac, suddenly the police, so not the envious neighbour, but the police, a very serious thing, filed a criminal complaint against the mayor who bought for a million and a half, and sold for 26 million, were supposed to sell for 36. We're waiting to see what the State's Attorney's office says, we'll respect that, and in the end we'll respect the court's decision. But we remind you that this criminal application was filed after three years of laziness by the police, not by the concerned citizens. Police who've known everything for three years. About these details when we go public, when we perform in the morning, so when we have a coordinated police action, the State Attorney's Office and the Prime Minister from 8am to 10:30 in the morning, and you can't convince me that it wasn't like that, and I don't think that's good, then we have to be very careful not to provide privileged information that only the police have at the moment and to take care of the consequences of their words. We'll respect every word of law, but we'll have an attitude about him. That's it. Thank you, Mr. President. This is where I end up. I can see I'm way out of time. Thank you for your attention and let's be smart.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47590	Thank you. There's a lot of corrections, I'm afraid, isn't there? But here's Mr. Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47591	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, Minister Shimonović, colleagues and colleagues. Here in this inspiring performance by SDP President Milanovic, I will draw out the taste that I am correcting. He says, we didn't see in Mr. Bajic's work the grill, the enthusiasm, the commitment to his work. It's such a taste that can refer to all of your exposure. According to Mr Milanovic, Mr Bajic suddenly became unemployed, seeking to bring him down. Who? SDP. The destruction of our current state's attorney, Mladen Bajic, is the main goal of the SDP that brought him to power eight years ago. Why does the SDP now notice his "nead" and have just begun to notice him last year? Then you woke up all of a sudden from... like the Briar Rose seeing that Mr. Bajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47592	Is that a correction? Correction. Exactly what you're correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47593	Mr. Bajic, meanwhile, brought in new people, got rid of friendly personnel, and the new law allows him full efficiency adopted on June 30th 2009. State's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47594	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47595	He can't apply to himself, it makes the police, ordinary citizens, legal persons and others, it's called the rule of law. .../ There's noise in the hall. Mr. President, am I entitled to move forward? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47596	Sit down. Thank you very much for your proposal. I ask all MPs and MPs in particular to correct the incorrect allegations to say at the very beginning of their statement that they are correcting. So please, I'm correcting the previous speech. I'll regret it, but I have to interrupt then because it's not a correction, it's a replica. So we need to correct exactly what we want to correct. I'm asking you to stick to it and we'll be able to figure out this agenda point with success. Here, it's all about no exception. Now she has Mrs. Neda Klaric's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47597	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am correcting Mr Milanovic's incorrect allegations that he said "Trust for the next four years Mr Bajic did not deserve.". On the contrary. That's incorrect. Mr. Bajic has earned confidence for the next four years because, apart from the special and general conditions for such a duty, he created through his work so far, along with the government, he has met the preconditions for building a legislative framework, human resources in the ruthless and unholy fight against corruption, with the information that during... About two hundred thousand citizens... [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] So there are half of them in whom they represent the state, and it remains far from the eyes of the public. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47598	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, according to my free estimate, one 90% correction of incorrect allegations in the Croatian Parliament is not correcting the incorrect allegations. I'll tell you this now. Since this has become a practice, it seems to have been acquired right outside of the Rules of Procedure and I will insist on what I have already said. I'm making it right and I'm asking you to. Let's move on. The third correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47599	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, Minister. My correction to an incorrect quote refers to an incorrectly stated claim that the state's attorney cannot be independent if it is proposed by the Croatian government. The independence of the state's attorney depends not on the Croatian government's proposal but I wonder who should propose it. Do you think maybe a birds' protection company or maybe... That quote of yours is incorrect... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] who should propose a state lawyer if not the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Whether there is another government of other countries or third countries, the question is really that I should look for an answer with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47600	Thank you. The only thing you would notice is that it is not directed to discuss and mix the internal affairs of the neighbouring Republic in the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Davor Huška is correcting an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47601	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr Milanovic who said it was the job of a state lawyer to make noises when he noticed any irregularities. The state's attorney's job is based on the facts available to reveal and initiate investigations and this allows him to have a new law since the summer of the past year. The increasing teaming in the State's Attorney's Office and, of course, the good political climate in the Republic of Croatia and its work are being witnessed by the European Commission's evaluations of the urgency of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, of anti-corruption affairs which have also been revealed about all other activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47602	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47603	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the mayor of Mljet municipality sold land that he was certain was municipal land. This is incorrect because by then he had already had a solution to the municipal court, the verdict and the DORH's solution to the state land, the land owned by the Croatian forests. It is by no means the Croatian forest owned by the municipality but by the state. The quote is incorrect because I add that he was selling his own, not 13 euros, but 250 euros as much as that land was estimated at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47604	Thank you. Correction by Mrs Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47605	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Milanovic, I'll try to quote as accurately as I can. "Croatia will be hostage in the fight against one person's corruption for another four years." No, Mr. Milanovic, that's incorrect. It will continue to fight corruption and resolve sales and land in Mljet and the Mršić case, but I must also remind you of the case you did not list, the case in Sisak-Moslavina County of your mayor Lovric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47606	Mr. Frano Matušić correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47607	Thank you, Mr. President. I've got to fill it out. First, the incorrect allegations were already cited by Mr. Hebrang, and this is what Mr. Milanovic said that Mljet municipality chief was selling municipal land. Inaccurately, Mr. Milanovic, you had to inform yourself at least a little, so you'd know that the moment the municipal chief called for the State's Attorney's tender, he was warned not to sell the country because it's a state-owned country according to the law, because you're protecting the law as well. In all court cases, the State's Attorney's office received disputes and was legally registered to that country. And the chief was selling the country not as a building land but as a building plot for investors from Russia. Therefore, do not deceive the Croatian public. Check the court documents, the law firm, because that way of defending SDP's interests reminds me of some lawyers who were called devil's lawyers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47608	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47609	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam President of the Croatian Government. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Milanovic, who claimed that there is no time for a state attorney. From all that my colleagues have said, the results achieved in the work so far by the attorney general, which is also the reason the Croatian government proposes to appoint him for another four-year term is proof that Mr Milanovic's statement is incorrect. In addition, it may be more accurate and it is proof that, I do not know what Mr Milanovic wanted to say with this willing moment, but I do not think that we here in the Croatian Parliament see that Mr Milanović is there at his place for a moment to sit in this assembly and contribute to the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47610	Mrs. Sunny Head, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47611	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll correct the incorrect assumption. A colleague, Milanovic, said the state of Croatia behaves as a Pest or Vienna. On the contrary, I would say that the Croatian State is acting as a responsible state, so the state that wants to protect ownership. He spoke of it in the context of the sale of land on Mljet and cannot be sold something that is thought to be someone's. Well, for God's sake, we have laws and a legal framework and we call for the respect of the law. And the State's Attorney's Office is just doing its constitutional work and protecting the property of the state and we don't need any Elliot Ness from old movies. It's that he was handsome, but we still have laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47612	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47613	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Milanovic, let me correct this quote that doesn't seem as bad as it looks, but I think it's very dangerous. You said that it turns out that we are the hostages of one man, approximately like that, whether Croatia will be a legal state or not. That's not true. So we need to be a guarantee, we all need to be a guarantee to both this Parliament and the Government and this concrete proposal that we will really deal with corruption. And for that, we need all of us here to agree. I would really believe you if you were sincerely trying to improve the situation in Croatia. I trust you now, but I'm surprised that at the end of your presentation you brought up some of the cases that are being transferred to you, and that's what you actually showed up to be biased. In the end, you have defended something that is indefensible, so you are also uninformed or deceived. So you can't defend what happened at Mljet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47614	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Bozica Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representative Milanovic said in his debate that Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor called some SDP people the other day. No, that's not true, my colleague Milanovic. The prime minister did not call but said the facts, that some people in the SDP are being investigated, and some are being convicted. That's a big difference. So, Mr. Milanovic, when there's a crime to be cleaned in your backyard, then there's no corruption. But you have now proven as president of the main opposition party that you are the number one man in Croatia who is absolutely against crime and corruption. We should ask ourselves that question. And I'm asking you as a representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47616	Thank you. ... Please! [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47617	But you're getting paid on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47618	Thank you. Madam representative, we can't claim here by name that the fighter is large or that he's not a anti-corruption fighter. Let's refrain from these qualifications for anyone. We don't need to cheer, but we don't need to disqualify. Yes, here you go, Mr. Milanovic's injury to the Rules of Procedure. There's one, there's Mr. Kresimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47619	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Milanovic insisted, quote: "to defend principles, profession, barbecue, professionalism, principles in the fight against corruption". Unfortunately, it was just declarative. Everything else you said afterwards was in the interest of the defence of the SDP, the SDP's parliamentary deputies. In this way, neither professionalism nor profession nor the state's interest in fighting corruption is defended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47620	Thank you. Let's move on... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47621	Thank you, Vice President. Here I am sorry that the President of the Parliament has just left. Carefully listening to all the corrections of an incorrect quote, my conscience tells me, no matter what lessons I'm given if I'm not in the Parliament, that's what we'd like... 209, 209. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So thank you for your well-intentioned lessons, I love it when I'm corrected, I always learn something from it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Carefully listening to all the piles of corrections only at the esteemed representative Perić Suzanne, is that so from Slavonski Brod, alone... / Laugh./ Here's to knowing, though I don't know what to do, but I remember, it was really about correcting an incorrect quote. Specifically, logically consistent. The second thing is whether or not we agree. Everything else is a simple manipulation, it was actually sad to watch. Please...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47622	Thank you. You're out of time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47623	Please...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47624	Thank you! You're out of time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47625	Please consider...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47626	You're out of time! Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47627	So you didn't interrupt the other...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47628	Your Honor, I thank you. You're out of time. Please, you're out of time and you can't talk anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47629	You see how jealous you are in law enforcement when it suits you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47630	Thank you very much! Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47631	Let's change this system, this is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47632	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47633	This is not how a serious parliament behaves, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47634	You're out of time, you can't talk anymore. Please sit down. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47635	I'm not gonna make a fuss about you, but you're being unfair, but you won't provoke me. That was ugly...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47636	Please don't talk anymore. Your time is up. ... Your Honor, you can't talk anymore. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your Honor, I take your word for it because you're speaking beyond the time you've had and you can't speak any further. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47637	Vice President, you're a little confused, but I repeat...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47638	Please! Dear Representative... Your Honor, I'd like to introduce some peace and order. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your Honor, the first thing you put under the category that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is only partially correct. Secondly, you were the first to hurt the Rules of Procedure because you did not stick to the time in which you have the right to speak. .../The Intruder doesn't understand. And third, you're throwing yourself out of a bench that you have no right to. Therefore, do not call others to harm the Rules of Procedure, and do so yourself, so please stick to the Rules of Procedure as everyone else must. Secondly, I ask the MPs if they have any need to express any disagreement then there are institutes through the Rules of Procedure. Please report through the Rules of Procedure, not bang here, not stick here. And now we're moving on with the club debate. It's HSLS and Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished gentlemen of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and SDA of Croatia, we will support the proposal for a decision to appoint Mr Mladen Bajic as the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. The main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia is named in times of numerous challenges and difficulties. Before Croatia, the conclusion of the negotiations on entry into the European Union is expected to expire approximately at the end of the government's mandate, then to meet all necessary preconditions from the privatisation of the shipyard to the continuation of reforms in administration and justice. There is certainly also the fight against corruption which is becoming the most important internal Croatian issue, not just the task that needs to be done for Europe. So, I think personally and at the club, that it is now, so today it is quite clear that there are no untouchables in the fight against corruption. Finally, the Croatian public received a dose of optimism and hopes that all forms of crime that destroy Croatian wealth and remaining resources will go to an end. In the fight for Croatia as we wish, and I am sure we all want it to be such that it is a civilized and courteous country of solid democracy determined to punish economic crime and disorder, a country that respects legally elected Croatian officials and institutions, which implements a sensitive social policy and works to establish a rule of law in which all citizens are equal and equal. For such a country, therefore, all the participants of the institution are important, and in the construction of such a state there is certainly an extremely important place for the State's attorneyship of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian State's Attorney General has really good results and should not be reduced in any personal thinking or political conflict. So there's good results in his previous work. But the work must also have continued support for all ministries, continued government support, political parties and citizens of Croatia. So, all citizens of Croatia. Mr. Mladen Bajic has earned our trust for the third time in a row because in difficult transition times he significantly organised and staffed the State's Attorney's Office because he has prosecuted war crimes. Mr. Mladen Bajic also deserved confidence because the DORH has even 80% of the convictions in the DORH cases. You can run an analysis with others, so you'll see that this is an excellent and good result. The club of HSLS and SDA of Croatia believes that Mr Mladen Bajic has indeed shown high professional quality with his current behaviour, that he has made a major contribution to the successful operation of the DORH in implementing the law of the prescribed tasks. We therefore support the proposal of the Committee on Justice, a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to appoint Mr Mladen Bajic as the chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. The HSLS and SDA representatives' club believes that this appointment guarantees the continuation of the work initiated, to guarantee the awareness of work, legality and honesty in the operation of the DORH as a prerequisite for any fight against disorder, against crime of every kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47640	Thank you. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47641	I don't know, after this debate, I get the impression that one dozen people are going to Remetinac, and only in that afternoon's debate will they hear this discussion being held. But let's see who corrects me, an incorrect quote. You know, the best assessment of the state's attorney's work was given by Mr. Seks, if Mr. Bajic's work had been subject to auto-censorship or Nacional.hr to be more precise now, so that someone wouldn't have corrected me by the Shax Two-Point "I wouldn't have been about the pressures of the party on Bajic he had an auto-censorship". There's no tiles, and there is. Here, if, I say, I wanted to tell someone from the opposition we should respect as a political opponent. The second is that we disagree with him. Then it must be Mr. Shakespeare. But what I'm experiencing is Mr. Shakespeare, under the idea of self-censorship, wanted to say. Kind of means those in HDZ or you in HDZ didn't ask the state's attorney not to act, though. You were defending the institution's independence, but what you could do when the state's attorney handled self-censorship. This is what I do in such a way as to translate that the State's Attorney's Office has always listened to any policy and knew exactly how to rule. It was until 2000, so it was after 2000, and God is nothing different to me today. Behind me is this auto-censorship, perhaps a far greater problem than whether or not someone blocked or imposed an investigation against it. So that autocensorship. It exists everywhere, it exists in parties, it exists in the media, it exists in other state institutions, God exists in the judiciary, and so, as we heard in the State's Attorney's Office. And one of the best examples of self-censorship or obedience is that unfortunate apartment I don't know in which street, it doesn't matter, first thing in 24 hours, it was all by law, and then in a few days we find out about the Constitutional Court's decision, where none of the assignments of such a freed apartment were by the Constitution, not by law or by regulations. And clearly that they knew it in the State's Attorney's Office, but they deceived themselves, probably not to act, and because of another self-censorship, it's easier to choose or confirm someone. But what do we do in 2010 now? For example, I don't know, Mr. Pupovac, 2010 will solve the issue of household law, tens of thousands of people looking for this apartment somewhere in Croatia, living in Serbia, Croatia, etc.? I wouldn't mention that apartment that the State's Attorney's message is all by law doesn't mean that this problem will never be solved in this country. That's right. That would be 20 today, I don't know 30 thousand apartments in the state cost a billion euros, but that's about the ratio of hiducius from the early '90s, that's what it says about Lori, about the autocensorship that was happening there and in other places like that. And why am I saying that? I don't mean to hold on, because I'm not one of those who can and can hold on to any moral ancestors. If everything was legal, I would say in this assembly, I don't know, except for this pay phone, there wouldn't be anyone left to ask themselves and answer questions or questions, but if everything was under God's law in my building across the street from the government, let alone ministers, that everything by law would be a question of whether and how many state lawyers came to work tomorrow. For this situation in the Croatian economy of theft, corruption, emigration, people getting kicked out of apartments on the street, I think it's also the autocensorship of all our state's attorneys, since the year '90. So let's make it clear before. So what am I worried about? If apartments are acquired by law, and God is acquired and factories, hotels, I know supermarkets, tiffs, or picks, construction companies. And then what are we gonna say tomorrow with the provisions about... Conversions? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We won't do anything. We can hang a cat's tail. For 5 or 10,000 euros, everyone in this country will have a bad time, but for 5, 10, or 50 or 500m euros, nothing will happen to him. And it's all legal. And especially what happened there in the early '90s. And there, as I said in action, was this autocensorship of the state's attorneys. I am sure, as it is now, that perhaps no one made them work either at that time, or that they were not working, no one was likely to stop them in the work, but the then state lawyers had an infallible instinct that they could, which they should not, and by their self-censorship, the Croatian judiciary contributed largely to the fact that Croatia and steal, that economic destruction, that the worst among us become pillars of this society, which depends on whether or not you will be able to hire a child in a private company, until we are left without and I do not know the future economically. And I in this, meaning in this one imperceptibility that is in play, and we will only face it, I see in some way and the responsibility of the state's attorneys or the Croatian judiciary in the broadest sense of the word. What would it mean to change a state's attorney or the first man to lead a state's attorney? Mr. Bajic, let's say it fits everyone. That's right. Someone from the HDZ bench, while Mr Milanovic spoke literally about how good he was when he was yours, a finished quote. Now, that's a problem, that a state's attorney can't be good to anyone, or it's got to be good to everyone, but it can't be anybody's. The truth is that Mr. Bajic's state attorney has outlived the election and the edge of Racan, and Mr. Sanader, so will Mrs. Kosor, but I don't accept the thesis everything would care, nothing would be done without saying why the silence and waiting for that 1.7.2009 and leaving Mr. Sanader. If Sanader is guilty of Mr. Bajic's silence, then say it, but I know that's why no one will call him. The problem is, in that one auto-censorship and one who thinks there will never be auto-censorship with the state's attorneys again, they either get these or you're actually wrong in this country. It's everywhere, it's in the State's Attorney's Office. I agree that it is probably more and more done in the State's Attorney's Office from 1.7.2009 to today than since '90. until 1.7.2009. Just because we have 20, 25 or 30 audio names in Remetic, that clearly doesn't mean that everyone will be charged, this one convicted. What if these people are innocent? If their careers are ruined, their families, their name? I don't know. And by the way, I can't work for the state millions of which we get paid, too. This country is, I'm afraid, ahead of an economic breakdown. For a while, people will follow these arrests, and then she won't be enough to say she's doing something. People will be looking for answers soon, both for unemployment and indifference, and for the collapse of shipbuilding, textiles, I don't know agriculture, and I'm afraid that the street could become some kind of measure of value on the principle of that. What happened here yesterday across the street in Warsaw. I am clearly not that the judiciary is digging up, that I am open, that I am not against arrest, but I am against the show, especially if it is about the European Union or the European Union and that we must always call on it. I'm still against these missing charges, any packings. Well, one Tito didn't let Tudjman pack, so they at least informed us, no, and by the Tudjmans, the closest to him, but a clear new time is also looking for some new probably people, answers, etc. And then a man asks himself if you can get one term in six months' work. I absolutely agree, Mr. Bajic should work not 20, let him work another 30 years at the State's Attorney's Office. The second question is, should it be at the head of the institution just for the sake of its reservation? Now we see, it turns out that way. Maybe I'll say that too. You know what my opinion of Mr. Sanader is, I certainly don't defend him. They're sort of Sanader's men now. It can't be just them, gentlemen, that they're guilty. That's it. that they weren't real. And others who worked with him, with him, that they were upright. You know, then he's a little balanced, left, right, center, but I'm afraid of one. So the judiciary doesn't start again for political reckonings. Yeah, well, that's just not supposed to happen. All in all, at the very least, as Mr. Bajic was reserved according to all these procedures of boredom why we in IDS or I would not be reserved according to his choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47642	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First, he's a respected representative and vice president of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47643	And with sincere regret, I must correct Mr. Kajin's incorrect claim that he was mistaken by relying on an incorrect interpretation from a single portal. My guest on Radio 101. I did not say in the "Radio 101" show that Mladen Bajic was under self-censorship that at certain times some parts of the repressive apparatus listened to politics and therefore adjusted their repressive instruments. It's a huge difference from what's in that portal where it's targeted and deliberately transferred to one medium to show that I'm saying that it was Bajic, to lean on SDP's ore, that Bajic was the one who conducted the autocensorship and listened to if anyone was going to be
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47644	Time. I thank the esteemed Vice President of the House. Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47645	Thank you. Well, fellow Cain, speaking to Pupovac, concerned about the tenant rights of the citizens who left Croatia, is not really what he claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47646	Correction? What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47647	The correction is that the Croatian government has also provided in the budget 100 million kuna for the construction or return of these apartments. Personally, I think these apartments were lost in accordance with Croatian law and should not have been returned because they did not pass even in the Strasbourg court.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47648	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. Dear Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47649	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Mladen Bajic knows his job and knows what it means to do the job well and certainly knows how to prepare the case before the court. He's the one, qualified, in our opinion without further ado, to do the job. The problem with the way he did the job in our opinion is that while he is fully qualified, equipped and able to do the job, he is at the same time subject to political pressures. And that in the work and in the doing of his work, he rebelled with political pressures. And it is obvious that political pressures have been put on him. I would say not in how he prepares an individual case and how he presents a particular case, but in the way he chooses or has so far chosen the cases he has started and opened and perhaps more than that in the way he has chosen cases he has not opened. In Croatia, there has been a political climate in the past few years that corruption is not being prosecuted. It was a political stance. Meanwhile, the political stance has changed to some extent, and now the political stance has been publicly expressed, and some moves have been demonstrated to go towards clearing up at least one part of corruption. And according to this Mr. Bajic has also been acting differently lately. He didn't learn anything more about how to do a job. That job used to work before. The political atmosphere and climate in this respect have changed and its way and approach has also changed. This is viewed by absolute criteria and by the criteria of the ideal situation wrong. In view of the absolute regularity of this job, the attorney general should, of course, not be subject to political climate and political pressure but rather have to do his job regardless. However, we are not in ideal conditions. We are actually very far from ideal conditions and this, in the opinion of us from the HNS club, is not a space for political competition but is the space to be rationally estimated which are ours at this moment of opportunity. If not Mladen Bajic, who? Of course, the proposal will not come from the entire Corps, so from all possible people who could qualify for it in Croatia. It will come from that part of qualified people it chooses and proposes the ruling majority. So, from which this government suggests, firstly HDZ and elects this ruling majority, firstly HDZ. That by the very logic of things, given that a person is elected in the Assembly, already puts certain restrictions on each next choice. So we are not faced with Mladen Bajic or anyone who exists in Croatia, no, Mladen Bajić or anyone whom HDZ would suggest and support in this Assembly. Secondly, we have a situation where anyone from that part, and otherwise anyone who came to that job, would spend some time getting into work, so learning to do business, learning at all by recognising the situation that they find in the state's attorney's office and with objects that are potentially there on the agenda. In that situation, there is in our opinion a very real danger of stopping what has been started or at least stopping for a while. So, to the moment, to make a certain swing that was created in the persecution of corruption for Croatia to stop. According to our assessment, this would be bad, and it could damage and damage the long-term amnesty, or lead to a situation where it would avoid the persecution of some people who have damaged important to this country and could lose the moment that we have preached for a long time, even in this Assembly, which is that the main focus of corruption is on selling political influence for money, which means that those with a very great political influence can sell this political influence for much more money, and that until the persecution of corruption comes to the highest peaks of power that has no real impact. At this point, there is an indication that it has also come to the highest peaks of government, so former members of the government, and therefore there is certainly a way along which there is a chance that at least some bearable measure of corruption in Croatia and especially corruption in the highest peaks of power. For this reason, we at the HNS Club feel that we should not lose momentum and should not lose momentum in this kind of work and in what has been happening in the last few months. And this without further ado is the result of not changing Mr. Bajic's attitude but of changing the political climate quite frankly. And because of that, looking at ideal criteria, we could also say, and this time Bajic complies with the political climate. And so all of us sitting here in the Assembly need to get one message out. In fact, the state's attorney is elected by the parliamentary majority, which means the political majority, and in a situation where every year the political majority can replace him, and in a situation where at least so far there has been a climate in this country that the political majority have replaced him with anyone who did not respond to them at the time he did not respond. So perhaps the first question is to ask here whether the way a top state attorney is elected by a political majority is the best way, so far so was what we have is the result. We're looking at the situation six months ago and the situation today and judging by the ideal criteria that someone who knows how to do a job and knows how to prepare a case but is subject to political pressures and the political climate would be disqualification, it would mean that this man can't do the job. However, given the alternatives offered, which are possible, which is another proposal from the ruling majority, and the danger that someone who is now in a changed political climate has begun to do the job of the one who should have done the work, to stop him now and at the very least harm him, we believe that this choice is not so simple. As far as we're concerned, we have different opinions at the HNS Club. Some people believe that the fact that a man who knows how to do his job, but who is subject to political pressures, is sufficient strong disqualification that he cannot be supported. Some believe that in these conditions, if Bajic is not supported or not elected, that no matter what happened for a while, we will stop the pursuit of corruption at the highest level and that this is something they do not want to take responsibility for or that they do not want to risk the persecution of corruption at the highest level. In line with this view, which I reiterate, of course, takes into account not the perfect conditions but the real conditions in which we operate, in the HNS Club, MPs will vote in line with their belief, in line with their assessment of whether they consider it to be a greater risk of halting corruption at the highest level, or a greater risk of continuing with a state lawyer who has also shown that he is also subject to political pressures, but is now working in a political climate in which the pursuit of corruption at the highest level is supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47650	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47651	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, MP Pusic said that a few years ago the political stance was not to process corruption. Just the other way around. The very political, only legitimate political stance is the laws passed by this Croatian Parliament. Just over the past few years, a legislative framework has been created. Therefore, laws have been passed precisely in the part of the abuse of powers and the position with which the catalogue of jumping offences has been expanded, the possibility of confiscation of property acquired by criminal act and for corruption offences has just been expanded. But I know, for example. Some ministers from between 2000 and 2003 who contracted state contracts with their own companies, which was found to be a conflict of interest. But there was no processing at the time. And why wasn't it? Because there was no political will to correct the laws that it might be...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47652	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Thank you. And it is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative of Stipo Gabrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47653	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I'm the first to appear on behalf of the club, because I think I may have the highest mandate, because if the State's Attorney's office was doing well somewhere, then it worked in my case. That some have been raised in the past eight years by one hundred criminal charges, but they have their own address. I have to say I'm very sorry there aren't any people here who are actors of these political applications. Eight years ago in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the police chief was changed behind that principle police station and they were tasked with writing applications against Jamba. And in the case of Jambo, the State's Attorney's Office is the most successful, because all of those hundreds of criminal charges have been made within the time limit. And out of those hundreds of criminal charges in this assembly, Parliament of fellow Members Damir Sesvečan said I was three times immune. But I think he's been raised five times immunity. But I don't need to raise immunity I didn't come to this House for immunity. When it comes to the work of the state's attorneys, I must say not long ago that perhaps the state's attorney along with the SOA director at the time is one of the most responsible people why we've been calling, came close, and then opened negotiations with the European Union when it comes to war crimes and everything else. In order for a state attorney or lawyers to do their job well, then a system should be well-designed. And the foundation of that system is operatives, crime operatives in police stations or administrations. It could be a lot of applications, very much. I do for some of those applications, and I know, to establish a criminal offence. But sign up, there's a police inspector who looks like him. He puts it in the back drawer or takes it home and she never sees the light of day again. In that case, the state's attorney can't do anything at all. I must say, the situation has changed dramatically, with the arrival of Mr. Karamark's new police minister, who is one of the top professionals. A lot has also changed since 1. Seven. Well, thank God, I'm sorry there isn't a Croatian Prime Minister here, it's changed on the road to the town of Metkovic. Because for the past six years, I don't think it's been on the globe of the Earth's larger enemy, both this House and the Croatian government and the town of Metkovic and Stipa Gabric Jamba. So much has changed that the arrival of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's president and the new law on the CAP has made it easier for the small, small politicians wearing a police uniform to cover up various items. And it depends on whether someone's like him or not, taking it out on the table, preparing and uraging with a state's attorney. I also consider the HSS club to believe that Mr. Bajic was doing his job well under circumstances. Maybe not very well but excellent your job. When I called her "Open" two and a half or three years ago as Mr. Zdravko Livakovic's secretary of state at the time, everyone was surprised to think that I came from Mars or from another galaxy. It didn't take long for two and a half years for what I was saying to be discovered and nothing else to be discovered. And what my predecessor said was a distinguished parliamentary representative, Mrs. Vesna Pusic, I don't think it's time for us to take that car, it's not time for us to bring in a new man, who needs six months or maybe more to get into cases, to start that machine that's already being run, and that we, the greatest evil called corruption, end up. That is why the HSS club will support Mr Mladen Bajic for a new term of four years. I'm sorry he's not here, but he may hear me from this pay phone, that last year in the Neretva Valley was a natural disaster, a fight that hit two cities and two municipalities, that the Croatian government gave as much as it could. She's given 2.4 million kunas. At the same time, Metkovic's Handball Club won about 3.5 million kuna, that it received those funds from Croatia's insurance. I saw that Uncle Mihanovic cricket the other day. It would be good for him to say who gave it to Croatia's insurance company. We also got, I didn't, they got from the Croatian Post Office Bank serious money. What is the decision and what is the competition, they also received money from the Croatian roads and highways somewhere in the height of nearly 4 million kuna. I'm not a lawyer, I'm an agronomist, and I may at least have the right to speak here, but I know enough when someone's in bankruptcy that these funds cannot be deployed by anyone's will or desire, that a bankruptcy judge and the Council of Prophets should decide on that. The funds were transferred to a private company called Retable which, thanks to God, cleaned Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro and Macedonia from plastic bottles and glass bottles and made transports as one economic giant in Metkovic in the last four years one 100 million kuna. But I don't want to talk about it. There'll be other opportunities. On behalf of the HSS club, we support Mr. Mladen Bajic because we think he is doing a great job and I thank you. That it may be the best State Attorney's Office in both Zagreb and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, county and municipal that it worked best when it comes to Stipe Gabrić Jumbo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47654	Thank you. It is the turn of the SDSS Club's distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47655	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If there are any benefits from this election, let's hope it will be in relation between Mladen Bajic and our colleague, Jumba. But joke aside, this must be an important job to do today. The choice of the attorney general is certainly a haven much more than what is a matter of a decision on one name or of a man because the work of the State's Attorney's Office is a property and the work of the police, the work of the judiciary and, of course, the work of politics including us as representatives. So when we discuss the selection of the attorney general in this case, Mladen Bajic, we are, in fact, discussing to a good extent all three or four dimensions of what I have stated. It is absolutely certain that, as counterpart Milanovic rightly says, better than Mladen Bajic, there are certainly better ones than Milorad Pupovac, but it is quite certain that there are worse ones than Mladen Bajic. Surely there could have been better than Mladen Bajic in the time behind us but we know it wasn't like that. And when we look at the history of the State's Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia, and when we look at the business within it, we will not find those who will in turn introduce as positive as Mladen Bajic can introduce a positive in his two mandates. So in that time that had passed, there were certainly worse ones than there could be today. Unfortunately, counterpart Pusic is quite right about that. The way we chose the State's Attorney's Council shows it's possible. The way we referred to the selection process of the State-Law Council and the composition of the State-Law Council when we decided not to choose those who might be of greater use to the man we choose today than those chosen by us, including some of its best deputies that we refused and did not choose. It's just one example that shows that we're not only discussing Mladen Bajic, but we're discussing ourselves, and I remember this moment so vividly because we voted there, I vividly remember how serious we approached this business of voting at that moment. Pretty much below what that kind of job is looking for. We can certainly object to young Bajic for not doing enough but we cannot object to him for a bad act. But unfortunately, that kind of finding is not valid and does not apply to many and the police, and to the judiciary, and also to the composition of the State's Attorney's Office, even in politics, I mean executive power. There were many who did bad things and not only bad in terms of weak ability but bad in terms of illegality and probably still have them today, and that is certainly the problem of the State's Attorney's Office and Mladen Bajic as our problem is probably also the problem of the minister of justice, as is probably the problem of the police minister. And as we rightly expect Mladen Bajic to tell us where the problems are when it comes to the State's Attorney's Office, we should expect that from those who represent his left or right hand in this business. Discussing Mladen Bajic and his third term, we are also talking about our immediate past and this direct past which is a conglomerate of the most diverse difficulties and burdens that are much harder than we are willing to admit or than we are willing to say. We would actually like to judge that past in this place by choosing a state attorney, at least some of us, but those judgments can't come overnight and these procedures can't take place with the shifts and appointments of others, unfortunately. And there were those shifts. One of those shifts was before Mladen Bajic became a state lawyer, which means when he became a lawyer. He's been replaced to come in second, better. But in all its complexity, we haven't been freed, and therefore it seems to me that today, not only to me but to my colleagues from the SDSS Club, that today, when this ball of the past has become heavy and difficult in many ways, it has begun to detach and when the state's attorney began to dance from these neither the indictments nor the indictments and the indictments in different areas and in different segments. Asking someone else to do this right now is not our best request. And I'm going to say how I feel about that detour, about what maybe hasn't started dancing yet, and what's supposed to start dancing. It is absolutely certain that what is happening in the last year or more than a year, which we may not know, is a question of anti-legal action in various areas of the economy and the various sectors connected with state money, civil servants, tenants and people with relatively high or highest political power, such as the space of construction, such as the space of public enterprises that are still left. But it is also quite clear that there are other areas in which the state budget should be protected, such as the area of incentives in agriculture. If part of our colleagues sitting here in the Parliament and who are part of the ruling coalition has a noble idea that it is necessary to protect the village and ensure survival and those who may not survive tomorrow, for the sake of the overall competition we are entering, we are afraid that it is compromised by non-transparent, wrong and rarely illegal spending of money on state incentives. We hope that the State's Attorney's Office, the judiciary and others in this important sector, as is this about road construction or other procedures, will also become a more serious interest in the State's attorney's office and will protect the most large state property we have in that segment, which is the state budget. The other thing I'd like to say is the issues of war crimes trials that have not yet been prosecuted, which are rarely nearly 20 years in order to be prosecuted, which are certainly a state lawyer, and especially his deputies know by official duty or somehow otherwise, but until today or there has been no adequate processing, or if there was one on the initiative of the damaged, which ended up at their expense. Here's a letter I sent last month, on behalf of the Serbian People's Council, to several addresses last month, including the Prime Minister and State Attorney and Minister, but I didn't get an answer until today. I'm not sure if it's wise to read anything from this letter, but one thing I'm still going to read. "In Karlovac despite the criminal report of living witnesses to the Roknic family tragedy, the judiciary did not initiate a procedure to shed light on the events of 5.10.91. when the people in the masked uniforms broke into the house and killed Marko Roknic, Dragica Ninkovic and 14-year-old Daniela Roknic. Branka and Nenad Roknic survived a massacre that included their neighbours who recognized them. In particular, the murder of underage Daniela, which her mother hid under the table and covered up the sheet in the hope of saving her. The killers shot her in the back despite her mother's claims to spare her or at least to call for medical attention after she was shot. The minor Daniela died from the result of the wound on the same day, while Mother Branko Roknic, who looked the murderers in the eyes and began to feel spared because of her nationality." I will not say on purpose which, because it is offensive to anyone who is a member of a particular nationality today. Some people who were victims of these circumstances have filed private lawsuits believing that the judiciary would protect them, but it did not protect them, as it did not protect them in those years when they were victims, but it was welcome that they would pay for it, either by taking their pensions or by sitting on their apartments and on their houses. I know that the state's attorney Mladen Bajic doesn't have this on his conscience, but I also know that it's his, as it is my obligation and as our people here have been about this case or any other case or cases like, unfortunately, it's been and that many of us feel ashamed like I feel ashamed for what they've done to some of whom I've never had or could have had anything in common except belonging to an ethnic line. And finally, Mr. Vice President, we will vote in favour of the new election from the SDSS Club, Mr. Mladen Bajic's new mandate, and we expect at least 3 more things to be said in his first report and in his address to the Parliament among the other things he will report to us. [[Intruding Capricorn: Time!]] First, how long did it take him to get equipment so that his office and his attorney's office could work and who helped him get that equipment? [[It's time, Mr. Representative.- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Secondly, what is the structure and work of his deputies and to what extent can he do what needs to be done with them. And the third is...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47656	Your Honor, you've exceeded your time. Excuse me. Please, everyone here on behalf of the club can speak for 15 minutes and how I interrupted the others, so let me also warn the counsel. I let him talk, but he can't talk for 20 minutes. Here, finish your sentence and let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47657	Thank you. I just wanted to say, I really appreciate you giving me another sentence. I'm sorry I couldn't put it all in 15 minutes, but I think it's on the state's attorney we're sure to choose to say which and what limitations he has in his work and let him say it here in front of us in the Parliament. [[Employing Capricorn: Here you go.]] I'm sure she won't say it all, but she'd be better off if we heard from him. I believe he'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47658	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47659	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Vice President, Minister. What can we say after these years about State's Attorney Mladen Bajic? Here I would say, it is my opinion that it is a solid politician who has been swimming very well for the past eight years in all political situations, clashes and has always outlived his bosses who have always had in the ruling furniture in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, it's one of the places in this country that politicians shouldn't behave. There should be one lawyer professional who carries one of the pillars of the Croatian state. I can also tell Mr. Bajic if he wants to continue politics, deal with a policy that is solidly going to choose one of the 107 founding parties in the Republic of Croatia or can start his own party again, so that he can go out with us for the elections and try in reality how he can work as a politician and stop the duty of a state lawyer to use for political purposes and use it to survive in the political games that take place in the Republic of Croatia. I also want to point out that I wouldn't want him to take this as an invitation to come into my party, because it's really not welcome here. The fact that, over the past eight years he has always played for himself, means he has made moves to survive, he has received another mandate, and at the same time he has obediently acted on that duty to make the current prime minister happy both in the previous term of Ivo Sanader and today our Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. He got involved in his political business, so to speak within the party battle that takes place within the Croatian Democratic Community. What we see over the past few years is no fight against corruption, but a clean party showdown within the Croatian Democratic Community. It is obvious that people from the cover that people say that they are close to former Bajic's boss, Ivo Sanader, people with whom the time has come for the Croatian Democratic Community to be accounted for because they have become excess in their ranks, and all those who in time bowed to the new prime minister have sworn allegiance simply have no crime. And about everything Ivo Sanader and his crew did, they didn't normally know anything. And that Mladen Bajić knows very well and, of course, does not process because he has become part of the team. We can divide our representatives into three types of those who support Mladen Bajic and for reasons of respecting the party's discipline, as their presidency told them. It's another kind of person who's afraid of finding something for them, because he might be holding it in a drawer or possibly not making a mistake. Because he's very good at showing that he can do that, too. So, that nothing can make a big media case, run a judiciary to grind that man and then it ends up even in custody and to wash his honor. So I also understand that a part of the people are afraid that that's not how it would go if they said an inappropriate word for this pay phone. We also saw an example of the SDP after the first statement that it will not support another mandate of Mladen Bajic. Very quickly there was a criminal complaint against Zoran Vinkovic, against Mršić in Koprivnica, and as far as I hear the third against Picula is on hold. We will now see if Mladen Bajic is satisfied with today's SDP exposure and will likely act accordingly. The application will either be rejected, if the SDP has done the job properly or if they have whaled it very likely that Picula will receive another criminal application for those buses. And the third kind is those who, as I mentioned, respect their party discipline, and they are not interested in politics at all, nor what Mladen Bajic is doing from this country. Someone mentioned him earlier with Elliot Ness. I often think of another comparison that is closer to our space. It's Alexander Rankovic who did something similar even though he wasn't a state's attorney. He was using these state mechanisms for political purposes, counting himself. But he had a Tito at the time who had the strength and recognized the danger to the state of that man. And he cut it off, he didn't give him another mandate unlike today's ruling furniture that he doesn't want to understand, he uses it for his political purposes, and when he realizes it, they'll be late because he'll be in the same position that Ivo Sanader is in today. It is likely that some future prime minister will call in the evening of Mladen Bajic to send a message to Jadranka Kosor and her team waiting for them if God does not give them a chance to return to the Parliament or if they say something else through the Croatian media. Then it will be too late for you to give him another term today. When we draw the line behind those eight years, apart from these last six months, we see that he has worked exclusively on orders of the ruling furniture, that he has fulfilled all the wishes of Ivo Sanader and that there is no excuse for him not having been a political climate. If a professional is as he claims, and it's not true that he was, he should have stood up at the time and told Ivo Sanader, politics, government or I don't know who but, the police, we don't let me do my job. It's not a political climate to condemn someone, to contain corruption, but to keep quiet and to do what they allowed them to do and to order them to do. So it's no excuse. As Bacic of the Ministry of Defence has been convicted because Roncevic told him, as he claims in the indictment to do something, so Mladen Bajic is criminally responsible for failing to comply with the law and his duty because Ivo Sanader or who knows who else from the ruling furniture told him not to prosecute a certain crime. He has other than moral and criminal responsibility and that's one reason why he shouldn't get another term of attorney. The fact is also that this few processes that were in Croatian courts, and launched by Bajic, I would mention and say the very quick capture of General Gotovina, when Ivo Sanader estimated it was time to lick Europe, the European Union, then he called Bajic and said let's go quickly and find Ante Gotovina. Bajic quickly moved to work, implemented an action plan, Gotovina was very fast in The Hague. Also when Ivo Sanader called Mladene bothers Branimir Glavas, he defeated us and beat us to the feet in Slavonia and Baranja, we must remove him from political life, he quickly moved on and launched a politically mounted procedure that is not yet over, and all to make his boss Ivo Sanader happy and to open the political door to Slavonia and Baranja. This case is a school example of how politics rule the judiciary, how it uses Mladen Bajic and the Croatian judiciary to achieve its political goals by thinking that it will achieve a better result in the electoral body, and thus wants to remove its political opponents who are dangerous from political life. I would ask Mladen Bajic who personally took part in this case in the briefing of witnesses, in the setting up and mounting of evidence, under which law he gave the status of a crown witness to the killer by his own admission to Krunoslav Feher, who was even six times expropriated by the State's attorney to change his testimony, because that first statement he gave during the time he changed and took away the process did not answer at the given time. So six times by order of Mladen Bajic and the State's Attorney's Office, he changed his testimony to make mistakes and to collect enough evidence to condemn Branimir Glavas. The man is still working in the Croatian police today, meaning that the Croatian government, receiving wages, is involved in this process and assembly, has various benefits that he received only because he falsely accused Branimir Glavas. The same man at the same time planted Branimir Glavas and threatened both himself and Dear Hedla that the newspaper had written on many occasions. Afterwards, when one of the conscientious officers said he had discovered that he had been caught and had evidence that it was Feher, for some time he was suspended, but still working in the police, receiving salary and no process after that suspension was completed at the Ministry of the Interior, that man always enjoys what he earned falsely testifying on... Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By what law did Mladen Bajic personally receive Andrija Getos, the father of another person who falsely charged Branimir Glavas? Does it say in some law that members of the adult family can go to the state's attorney to trade with him, to speculate, to falsely testify, and in return get certain benefits and privileges from the government, and by means of state attorney Mladen Bajic. I'm not saying it by heart, I'm Vladimir Faber, who was playing on the team with Mladen Bajic, in court, testified that on several occasions Andrija Gettos was taking him to Mladen Bajic, but doesn't know what they were saying because he was sitting on the other side of the big office, so he didn't hear what they were talking about. But I think it is clear to everyone and the entire Croatian public what could have been the subject of this conversation. Based on such installations, such packages from policy talks and former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, Mladen Bajic launched one of the biggest processes in the Republic of Croatia. I once again warn you that it is Branimir Glavas today, tomorrow it can be any of you, from the SDP, from the HSS, from the national minorities. I would simply ask you not to allow such a man to play with the Croatian state, with the Croatian judiciary, and we must all strive to bring to this place a man who will be above politics in this country, whose law and law will be the only criterion in order to continue to act on that duty. Unfortunately, Mladen Bajic has shown during these years that he is unable to do so, and that it is a political servant regardless of who he is yesterday, today or tomorrow, prime minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is not all I've been telling you, there is evidence for all of us, and so is the deputy state attorney who took part in the trial against Branimir Glavas, and in the final word, this process has been initiated by politics and let it go to the souls of those who worked to reach this process. It is in the court's record, it was also in the Croatian media, although many Croatian media have choked on one such public recognition of the deputy state attorney that this was a political process. I tell you these things to the MPs, and I want to meet the Croatian public first, because my opinion is that this is not worth telling to the government, because it is politics and Croatian governments. Here I can also give an example so that state lawyer Mladen Bajic and ours, as independent Justice Minister Šimonovic like to say, can hold hands and it is obvious that their policy and methods are equal. Usually, Minister Shimonovic continued to run the campaign, the hajku, the persecution of Branimir Glavas through Croatian media, openly putting pressure on the Supreme Court, because it is an inadmissible verdict and the proceedings are still under way. 2.2. in "The Vesnik" he even speaks when this verdict is passed to Branimir Glavas for 10 years. How did you, Mr. Minister, have in mind at all, or where did you get information that the Supreme Court's verdict would be a power of power when only a few days ago this case went to the Supreme Court? In addition to this great pressure on the Supreme Court, it twists, the agreement signed with Bosnia and Herzegovina is being signed, so that, according to the statements made by Minister Shimonovic, the whole agreement can be seen to have worked precisely because of Branimir Glavas, although the man has been unjustly convicted and it is obvious that he does not belong under the agreement. I invite you ministers to start doing your job. You've got enough power issues to influence this agreement, you're dealing with it, and I ask you to leave Branimir Glavas alone. Let him have equality in front of the Croatian judiciary and give him a chance to prove his innocence before the Supreme Court. I would ask you not to put pressure on the Supreme Court in the future, because that's except that it's not moral and it's not a good and a crime that you very often warn me about when I'm talking about this speaker that I'm committing a crime. I warn you that as Minister of Justice in the Republic of Croatia you commit a crime using the media, here you see here the Evening List and the Vesnik, etc., to put pressure on the Supreme Court and to the harm of Branimir Glavas. I'll warn you all the time. I would ask you to remain so independent, that you become as independent as you appear in the media if you were. Mr. Shacks, I see he's probably making some remarks about my speech. It'll probably be commenting on the inadmissible verdict, too. When all those who conspired against Branimir Glavas can, in the first place, Bajic and Minister Shimonovic, I believe that I have a moral right, perhaps not legally, to answer and tell the other side of the story. Young Bajic, I'm not going to support him normally. The ruling set that uses his services wants us to have nothing left to say publicly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47660	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47661	Thank you, Vice President. The wrong claim and the incorrect representative of Drmic is that the political process is organised because HDZ has been beaten to death in Slavonia. There was a political difference between us in HDZ and then the political dissension was the HDZ's victory party in Slavonia and Baranja. Both in Osijek-Baranja County and in the local elections in 2005 after this distinction, HDZ won two-thirds of municipalities and cities, and in the 6-term parliamentary elections. So we were neither beaten, nor defeated, but we were a winning party, and you, Mr. Drmic, were beaten and defeated and you remained a minor party.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47662	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative Drmic, in what is the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47663	It's an injury because Mr. Shakespeare has not corrected my incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47664	What do you mean, it's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47665	He's broken his ankle. 209. Rules of Procedure. I wasn't talking, but I'm going to correct the incorrect assumption. You've been beaten to the ground, you don't have a mayor, you don't have a mayor, you barely have a mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47666	Thank you, thank you. This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I give you a warning. Please, let's take this seriously. And now it's on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on extending the term of office for another 4 years is the least debate over the new term. It is part of a debate on the new mandate, but most of the focus is on some other elements and some other policy issues. As I said in one part, it is a debate on whether or not to give confidence in another term of office to the main state attorney, where the dispute to grant that mandate is most clearly crystallized from the presentation of Mr Zoran Milanovic on behalf of the SDP's representative club, which has pleaded that due to the failure of the failure, inaction, in selective treatment does not give new confidence to the main state attorney. It was very pleasant to listen to a noveltic story Mr. Milanovic distributed here. One fabula about a state's attorney who should have one of those romantic TV shows about Elliott Ness, a knight without fault, fearless, of no one independent except the law. One ideal that probably exists only in romantic movies, TV shows, biographies of that kind. There's no absolute independence. It's an illusion. It is a state lawyer and state attorney's office, independent of politics, from the executive authority, regardless of the parliamentary authority, so legislative authorities, but there is no ideal independence, nor can it be. Nowhere in Europe or in the world, and here policy suggests, the government proposes, the Croatian Parliament elects, accepts or rejects. And certainly, in that spectrum and in that segment, politics must be existential. But back to this key and responsible topic, the focus of this topic. Why is this only one part of the debate on the mandate, the new mandate of Mladen Bajic, and why is it in the second part of the debate on something else? The debate that something else can best be detected for the reasons that the SDP club, its representative, the club president, is the reason why it is not necessary to entrust the new four-year term to Mladen Bajic's chief state attorney. So this is not a debate in my speech pro and counter but pro and counter certain arguments. Two key elements can be read from the presentation of the SDP's Club of Representatives as to why they believe that the Croatian Parliament should not accept the government's proposal to appoint a new mandate. The first key element was that, according to the SDP Club's assessment and assessment, the main state attorney in one part of his current mandate had accessed selectively, and there stated one example of Brodosplit, that he had selectively acted not on the principle of legality which the state's attorney had to hold, when he was first approached by the voice that the offence had been committed, that he had not put into practice, in the light of his mechanism of state law, and the police mechanism to initiate and there was an objection to the chief state's attorney, that the mechanism had not been put on hold, that he had not put him in circulation because he had assessed that it was under the government's political decision, Prime Minister Sanader, so that the judicial mechanism had not been put into circulation. This is what the SDP Club, its representative wanted to say, and I will now only crystal clear it, that the Croatian Government is the Ministry of the Interior, so the Ministry of Justice has actually acted and given orders and acted in synergy with the main state attorney so that it chooses, chooses who it wants, and who it will not run, and this is a message why not, from the SDP Club, why it does not accept the re-election of the attorney general. Because, according to their assessment, he acted selectively, and by acting selectively, he did not act legally, based on legality, the officiality of criminal persecution. And secondly, the SDP Club said it couldn't be this state's attorney anymore, because other than acting illegally, and that's a year-and-a-half-day uninterrupted hearing from the parliamentary benches, on this side, permanently one criticism of why Brodosplit was not for this case launched in one appropriate way. Why the case of trucks isn't exactly facing the desired dynamics and goal. It was a fierce, permanent criticism on this side that came into account why the state's attorney's office doesn't basically act according to orders and wishes, like those songs on the radio, that show by desire, why they don't play the tune they want the state's attorney to play or sing. Why the state's attorney's office is not strictly acting on SDP's wishes. In political persecution, at the beginning of political persecution, in a way of political persecution and specifically towards which persons and at which time towards political persecution. That's one side of the medal. The other side of the medal is why the state's attorney's office started and passed over, transferred some research and some examinations of the criminal responsibility of some SDP members, some SDP officials, mayors and some others. And the moment the state's attorney's office began, determined, diagnosed, diagnosed, the state's attorney's office did not act according to the wishes and orders of the SDP, and the State's Attorney's office on the other hand began to take an interest in SDP officials then we will deny trust. This is a real and real background for a large part of the reason and motivation why the choice, re-election and the new mandate of Mladen Bajic are being disputed on this left. With all the critical remarks that I have on the State's Attorney's Office as a whole, with all the possible objections that can be put in place, these objections do not stand out as relevant for not giving a mandate. Only in one hidden and indirect way do these objections stand out, a ball was thrown into the courtyard of the SDP and therefore the thumb below. They didn't settle for wishes from the radio waves of state's attorneys at the SDP Club, and that's why the thumb is down. You'll probably, I've got an unsustainable feeling that the SDP Club won't agree with these claims and assessments, which I could spot on one side of my eye, this is how you empower the raising of the handles and tiles in the handles, but your disagreement won't change the course of things. A message that would be given if the SDP Club's proposal were accepted, the message would be do not touch the one or stop the one who wants to make the order and who really wants there to be no untouchable. We can't be on one side to stick to the proverbs, as that folk proverb says fox or wolf, when it touches mine then it's political persecution, when it touches my members, then it's politically motivated persecution and research, and when it touches others, when it touches the HDZ, let's say it eats, then it's very good, then it's positive, then it's commendable and all expensive. Anything but me. So, no Elliot Ness but no Elliot Ness in the order and wishes of listeners and SDP readers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47668	Thank you. The vice president had a good feeling, there are 11 correcting incorrect allegations. So let's take the turn. First is Honorable Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47669	The first correction to Mr. Seks' incorrect allegations is this, the SDP has been against two state attorney reports for two years. Therefore, it does not seem to you that we are now because of what or the reason you might want to define. Secondly, it is an incorrect assumption that the president of the SDP said that in the "Brodosplit" affair, the state's attorney was listening to politics. On the contrary, he said that the state's attorney, regardless of the police's apparent obstruction, went into prosecution and did not file charges against the police who obstructed it. That's the real motive.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47670	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47671	Thank you very much. ... and the thesis because it's amazing that such an experienced politician and a lawyer say his thesis is his desire and orders. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But I still have to correct your claims, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And it's repeated claims, not harder. You have repeatedly said 15 times the wishes and orders that no one from the SDP has ever said and at least the club president and SDP president Zoran Milanovic. Secondly, since you spoke in medical terminology and different diagnostics, for 5 years it was a final diagnosis of the "Brodosplit" affair, the bank one, the second and the third is at least inappropriate. And I'm asking you nicely to distinguish the thesis from the claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47672	We now have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47673	In 209 you cannot correct my opinion, nor my thesis, claims. You were not correcting my claim, you were correcting my thesis. My opinion, my point of view. Not my facts. You have not stated any facts. I pray that the others who intend to correct the incorrect allegations, say I am correcting that and that incorrect allegation, my claim, not my opinion, my evaluations and my thinking that you are at the wishes of the listener to discuss something.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47674	Thank you. Let's move on with the corrections. The third correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47675	Vice President of the Assembly. I am correcting the incorrect vice-president of Mr. Seks's parliament, who said the SDP is not satisfied with the work of state lawyer Bajic because in the case of Brodoplit and some other cases he did not act according to SDP's wishes and melodies. It's a completely incorrect quote, just the opposite. The SDP is not satisfied with the overall impact of State lawyer Mladen Bajic, as his working rhythm has been too consistent with the rhythm of politics and in his work has become dependent on the tunes of the ruling party first on those composed by Prime Minister Sanader, and now duet Seks-Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47676	Thank you. It's a correct correction. It is up to the esteemed representative Slavko Linic, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47677	Mr. Vice-President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Vice-President Seks who said the SDP against Mr. Bajic for opening certain processes related to SDP members. incorrectly, because it is precisely Mr. SDP that has made it clear that he expects to speed up the process and as soon as possible to close Scaphethin, Skapelin or boat however you like. But what Mr. Milanovic pointed out, he is unhappy with the media circus conducted by the government's chief of police and police during and preparation of the current clock. He pointed that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47678	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of counterpart Seks where he said the real background of the reason to challenge Mr Bajic's SDP election is the processing of SDP officials. That's incorrect. In the last two reports submitted by Mr Bajic, we rejected and reasoned the reasons in the debate at the time. That's why we don't think he should be given another term. However, you, as a prominent politician and legal expert here, did not actually give an explanation on behalf of the club why Mr. Bajic should get a third term but rather dealt with the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47680	Thank you. We have the sixth correction of an incorrect quote, the distinguished representative of Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47681	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct something that Vice President Shakespeare has effectively hardened. In fact, he claimed that the SDP is trying to imply through this debate that Mr Bajic did not act legally. We do not imply it, we imply that he did not act in good time, which in itself calls into question subjection to the political pressure of his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47682	Thank you. Now it's time to correct the inaccuracies of the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47683	Mr. Seks's incorrect claim is that we will not vote for Mr. Bajic's SDP election for the reason that Mr. Bajic did not act according to SDP's wishes in a way that processes something that happened in "Brodosplit" or did not happen. The fact remains that both you and I and the eight-year-olds in Croatia know that some million dollars in "Brodosplit" are missing. If it takes 5 years to determine whether or not they are missing, then it is certain that Mr. Bajic does not deserve another term.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47684	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47685	It is a completely incorrect claim that the SDP opposes the election of Mladen Bajic because he opened investigations against SDP mayors. That claim is disproved by Mr. Shakespeare's chronology. First, SDP said he would not choose Bajic and then Bajic opened an investigation into SDP mayors, so he did not do anything in Koprivnica for three years until he heard that the SDP would not vote for him. Well, then he remembered something to do. So this is a matter of logic, chronology, reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47686	Thank you. It is up to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47687	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although Mr. Seks did not say a single word why HDZ supports Mr. Bajic, I will correct what he said why SDP does not support Mr. Bajic and that is because he has started some processes against our members. It is true that SDP has been voting against Mr Bajic's report for two years since then, so until then we have supported him, when it became evident that Mr Bajic has kept many cases in drawers, or as it would say stand by, so he was no longer Bajic but Stan Bajic and therefore does not deserve our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47688	Thank you. So you renamed him. Honourable representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović rectification of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47689	Mr. Shakespeare says, "It wasn't what the SDP wanted, and that's why the thumb was down there.". The SDP did not work on wishes or orders, but obviously HDZ is measured by its elbow and I think it is not possible to do anything different than that. And finally, let's just remember the one who ran away in the seventh gear, who issued at least public seven warrants, and thus boasted to both the police and the State's Attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47690	Thank you. And finally, the distinguished representative Ivan Hanzek corrects the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47691	I'm continuing on this subject. For two years, I have also debated in this Assembly on Mr Bajic's reports as a SDP, as a citizen and as an agent dissatisfied that Mr Bajic and those who are under him today are keeping in drawers some of the items that the police, again, represent the interests of the police, prosecuted, delivered to the state's attorneys and disappeared in the impasses of historical reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47692	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Shimonovic, the minister of justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I intend to comment on the discussions some of which were very valuable at the end of the debate but not stealing valuable time from the parliamentary debate, however, I must not only fence myself from incorrect facts and slanders, both against me and a number of other judicial officials, but also against the judiciary in general by the respected representative Drmic. Individually speaking, these inaccuracies and structures do not deserve to waste time each and every one of them specifically being denied. I would therefore stop at the conclusion that the judicial relationship towards Branimir Glavas is the same as for each other but that is also probably what bothers MP Drmic. An important and sensitive legal process is trying to get into political and cloudy political waters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47694	Thank you. We move on to individual debates, there are 24 reported. The first is the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47695	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister. I will begin my debate by asking who says that in Croatia the institutions of the rule of law are not doing their job. Here tonight, the strong forces of the MUP managed to arrest 50 citizens who fought for the law and legality of business in Zagreb. I congratulate the police force on the successful arrest. What are we discussing in this agenda point? In the debate so far, I've been under the impression that we're discussing the appointment of a first fighter in the fight against crime. In Croatia and now it is a dispute whether Mr. Bajic is indeed the first fighter or only the commissioner. That's not the most important question to me right now. Mrs. Kosor made a public statement a few days ago saying, "Who if not Mr. Bajic.". If Mrs Kosor had asked this question before Mr Bajic's government formally proposed the third term of the State's Attorney General's Office would have been legitimate and good and perhaps a large part of the public poles and debate would have been behind us long ago. But I would like to remind you that in October of last year when we discussed the report on the work of the Attorney General and the State's Attorney General, when Mr Bajic was here and I must admit that I find it a little unusual that parliament is discussing his candidacy and he is not here next to the minister, that I personally told him that my trust is no longer there and explained it by the fact that it is not a personal relationship but my position that I am not satisfied with his approach to the work or his reports. Today we heard it said on behalf of the SDP that the chief state attorney should not be a politician and that he must not be political from which I concluded that they believe Mr. Bajic is political. I've been asking the question since Mr. Bajic is political. Since 2002, 2003, 2005, 2006 or has become political in 2008. I can but I don't have to believe them. But then the question arises whether that grade was valid in 2002 during his first appointment as attorney general. The third thing I want to remind you of is the state's attorney's obligation to come before the Parliament every year with his report. I have reviewed six reports by Mr Bajic in six past years, and in none of his reports I found no sentence in which he would report, warn or call for help that first, Croatia's legislative framework is not good enough to be more effective than it is. In no sentence did he mention that he did not have sufficient numbers or sufficient professional personnel, no technical equipment problem was mentioned in any report as a limiting moment and never in any report did Mr Bajic indicate that there was any pressure from anyone on his work. I asked him before last to directly answer me what the Croatian Parliament must do, change, what to do to make the judiciary or the state's attorney's office and USKOK do as best as possible. He never answered that question, and he never mentioned it in the report. I am also personally disappointed with the attorney general, but also with the State's Attorney General in the way he interprets the existing Penal Code, in particular Article 114, when it comes to crimes against workers, workers, social, pension and health rights. And now we are witnessing that hundreds and thousands of workers remain unemployed in companies whose owners go bankrupt, open or own other very successful companies. The entire Croatian public is facing corruption only, and according to economic crime, and I do not think it can simply be true that a large number of affairs and cases where employers are simply bringing the owners into bankruptcy of the company, that the State's Attorney's Office is not more serious until now... In his report last year, the attorney general devoted one half sentence, which read: there were 193 applications under Article 114. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] KZ. Point. And nothing more. That speaks enough of his sensitivity in criminal matters when it comes to workers. Examples of failure. In the last six years I have witnessed the findings of the State Audit and you know that those opinions paint green when they are unconditional, yellow when they are conditional and red when they are unfavourable. What's been yellow since 2004? HAC, the Privatisation Fund, HEP, DOD, let me just list some. What was red paint back four years, so unfavourable? The city of Zabok three times in three years red painted, unfavourable opinion. ... A jeweler. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Galovac municipality for two years. If after the first red light in the State Audit report, the State's Attorney's Office had done their job, the perpetrators wouldn't have had a chance to repeat it twice again because they'd be out of office. Report by the State Commission on the control of public procurement procedures. Four years, 16 red, the same and no one. The National Council, the Anti-Corruption National Council before which Mr. Bajic has been three times if I am not mistaken, with counterpart Cvitan. I've never heard from him any problems, except for the claim that they're very good and that the results are fantastic. Mr Bajic, and it is obvious that he will receive the majority support in this House, will soon come before the Parliament with a 2009 report. The only thing that interests me in that report, the only thing I'm going to ask about that report will be the answer to the question of who was or who was best man of the Croatian corruption mafia. If Mr. Bajic did not name in the new report the godfather of the Croatian corruption mafia who was obviously so strong that his spirit and influence was in his offices in Gajevo, regardless of the support during the appointment, then it would be best if Mr. Bajic stepped down on his own, not that he would wait in 2020 when he said he was going to retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47696	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. First correction, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, now I don't really know if I can make it right by the Rules of Procedure that Mr. Agent Lesar didn't read or see well or because he said that in six years of reading the reports he didn't come across a single sentence about Mr. State's Attorney...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47698	You can't fix something he didn't find. If something isn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47699	If he hasn't found it, then I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47700	Can not get message: %s %s
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47701	Then I apologize, because I only read two reports, so I found such references on several occasions in those reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47702	Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47703	First, I would like to thank my colleague Turk for pointing to Mr. Lesar for misquoting the red finding for the city one, but since the correction of his colleague Lesar was not well heard. I have to say it out loud, it's not about Zabok. It's about Zlatar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47704	Okay. And a replica, Vice-President Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47705	Thank you very much. A colleague, Lesar, spoke critically about the effectiveness, i.e. ineffectiveness of the State's attorney-in-law in cases of criminal acts. However, it encouraged me to rephrase it to you because it seems to me that it is of equal importance or at least equally important and the tasks that the State's attorney has, and I don't think it does well in cases where it represents a state in different disputes that have an property-legal character. For political reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has often called out and opened up some disputes against its citizens, according to municipalities and cities across the Republic of Croatia, disputes that had nothing but a political background behind them have opened up, but which, for years now, have been dragging around courts and which have made it impossible to implement and implement numerous development programmes, development projects, employ people in these areas. It seems to me that an indolent position I would say is the neutral position the State's Attorney General has taken in these crazy disputes where the state is conducting disputes against its citizens as if they are not citizens of the state because they are citizens of a municipality, that it is very harmful and that there should be a lot of changes. That the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney should have had a proactive position and did something to dissipate our courts, to settle matters or to amend the law if it was necessary or to pursue government activities in terms of agreeable solutions to these disputes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47706	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47707	counterpart Antunovic, this political dictatorship in the work of the State's Attorney's Office is often mentioned. I would really like to be a state lawyer at least once publicly on this subject to come forward and to either convince us or convince that it was the reason for his work so far. But then I wonder why the state's attorney doesn't call and then such a political dictatorship when it comes to economic crime. Why not warn the government that the Penal Code needs to be changed in that part of economic crime so it can be even more effective, so that these paths of political dictatorships are simply unclear to me. And somehow when I look at the colour and direction of their movements, they are more facing Brussels than Zagreb. And allow me, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Hanzek, I'm sorry. I said not Zabok, but Zlatar, Zlatar, Zlatar, not Zabok, Zabok, Zabok. Did it sound good now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47708	Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47709	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry, my colleagues and colleagues. This is my lapus secretary of state, because most of the time they're sitting with the secretary of state, not the ministers. In that sense, thank you for coming. At first, I would like to express my support for the government's proposal, particularly with the reasons given by the prime minister regarding Mladen Bajic as the future chief state attorney in the next four-year term. Of course, all the debates that are taking place take place within the framework of the main framework of the debate, which is corruption. And that corruption, which is part of the problem that burdens us on our way to the European Union. But the other part is something that we ourselves should be aware of that corruption is an evil that we need to solve for ourselves. About Mr Bajic, or Mr Bajic's work, but better say about the work of the State Attorney's Office, I had the opportunity to speak when it came to the report for the past period, supporting in this report the results of the work achieved both within the Republic of Croatia and within the performance of the Republic of Croatia on the international stage, especially in light of the accession of the European Union. Last night's "Open" if you watched it, I don't know who was watching could show you once again how justice might be slow, but it can still be reached. And it could show you that at one time, the used times we talked about also existed as a state lawyer, there was also a certain political will and that it was based on political goals that someone did not agree to had a political conviction and that someone had been convicted in prison and that he was just. And we could hear yesterday from people who can't be said that in a certain way they were attached to Cardinal Stepinac and the Catholic Church, you could hear that a lot of evidence that existed simply wasn't introduced into the process. If I could have some peace if I could talk, I couldn't concentrate! The discussion on Bajic and the chief state attorney today is a very delicate topic because the work of the State's Attorney's Office is extremely public attention, it is the focus of the media, but it is the world's attention, or the media on the international scene that monitors developments in Croatia, assessing how much democracy we are moving forward. Namely, we know of the constitutional category of government tridivision in Croatia, the separation of legislative and executive and judicial authorities. We also know about the democratic structure of Croatia and the desire for this democracy to work for us as well as possible. But we also remember how it used to be said by Marshal Tito when he then spoke of democracy, but not at all costs. I think we are trying to establish democracy at all costs because it represents nothing less than the best framework within which the world can develop today. It is interesting in this context that he said that in some way the SDP is accused of being against Mr Bajic because he withdrew certain acts of prosecution against some members of the SDP or the SDP summit is not that finding is not convenient, although I know he meant nothing different from what he said. But it could be concluded that the HDZ for Bajic is precisely because it has launched certain actions against HDZ members that I think such a conclusion would be wrong. Today's results of the State's attorney's work are not, in any case, the results of the last month or the last six months, or the last year, but are the results of something that lasts months and years. And in the end, the data we've heard that 80% has been ruled the way the State's Attorney's Office has sued, proves that the success of the State's attorney's work, and thus the chief state's attorney, is very high. But the question arises: Why would anyone even want to be a state attorney, the attorney general? Which is good for someone to be the attorney general, given that such a function, so so does the person who acts like that, in fact, no one likes it. It's all his fault, or because of what he condemned, of course, by persecuting, or because he didn't persecute for someone we thought he would. Is it just a professional challenge to achieve something, is it a feeling that the social improvement is being achieved through work, is it money that stands behind it, especially if it sees you being judged through the influence of politics on the table or under the table, and what fellow Shakespeare has said from a pay phone there is nothing that is just so separate from politics, because we are all often on one side and on the other. Therefore, this context of separation or the influence of politics as it can be considered normal and functioning everywhere in the world is only a question of whether the measure is being exceeded. Speaking of the work of the chief state attorney, it is not possible to skip the work of a whole team whose head is a top state attorney and I think all the results are positive, all the possible shortcomings that can be referred to the work are related to a whole team on which he is headed, but being at the helm and giving one kind of stamp, brave, encouraging and with his own pawnage and dedication that he did not feel, at least by the number of hours he is working on the job, he probably encourages others to give away much more than what the motive of pay or something else would be sufficient. It is also necessary to understand the work of the State Attorney's Office in the context of the permanent pressures of the public manifested through media or media through the public, however you like, and to say refusing to accept consent to the choice in order to actually increase the pressure even further. I think Bajic and his team would never separate him from that, although he has a special meaning in it, absolutely deserves confidence, that his work was founded, at least until now he was on his conscience, on the moral category of a person, and on the conscience of a profession he deals with. He now has prison assumptions at his disposal, he also has the government's political will, but not as a pressure on politics, but through those systems of government that allow for more correct and better work, they open corridors so that the State's Attorney's Office can work, which is the Ministry of Justice in the first place and the Ministry of the Interior. I have to keep in mind that corruption is a moral category, and that what we often talk about here is only part of corruption. Not to mention the origin and definition of corruption. Corruption comes from a mother and child's relationship to eat something, so I don't know what kind of crime it manifests. And in conclusion, and I could say a lot more, I would like to say that God gave Bajic as a metaphor of the State's Attorney's Office, as the main state... , but the metaphor of the State Attorney's Office continues to work as well as so far aware that there are gaps with him as well as with everyone else in the business, except that his work is more exposed to public attention, but also to the influence of various interests to be resisted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And even I'm not perfect, even though sometimes I mean it. In any case, I believe in honesty and expertise, not only Bajic, but also all of his associates. And in the future, I'm asking the government to help them hire someone, a lot of people are missing, they're not answering the contest because no one wants to work for such small money. The untouchable ones we don't know should be touched by the president of the state, so the lower ones will always be, therefore, support.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47710	Finish it, Mr. Representative. Here's a light here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47711	Thank you very much, I see that red, too, that I have entered red Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47712	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47713	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I must remind you, colleague Roshin, you gave one big interview in a national weekly, the moment the former prime minister left. You said it was such a complex, thought-oriented departure that none of us could understand the message of why he left and that he would come back someday. Here we realized very quickly why he left, because he locked all the drawers of the Office of the State's Attorney Mladen Bajic, where the cases related to the high political corruption created by your former prime minister, and now your entire government, headed by the prime minister, is acting as a witness to the penitent. You've all witnessed corruption behavior and corruption, along with a state attorney, and now as a witness you're trying to buy another part of your mandate to cover up everything that hasn't worked out so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47714	The answer to this very precise replica will be given by Mr. Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47715	Sure... The way your club president would say you never know. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] It takes time to pass, time will tell. I'm telling you, for Stepinac, that's how many years, 50 years after his death, he certainly knows what's going on, right? Thus, we will see what will happen and what will happen. May I speak? The other thing you said is the character of your speculation, and that's why I'm asking the state's attorney's office to trust him to investigate all cases until the end and to remove the stigma of possible speculation, which is how it's going to be, which is how it's going to be. So when we get to the end, we'll know which end of the road we came to. Everything else is your speculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47716	Well, here's because there's more of these replicas I'd like to warn the MPs all, we're not cops, we're not BUSCO, we're not the State's Attorney's office, and we're not a court. Therefore, let us refrain from qualified for something that we do not know and in the way of cheerleading. Cheerleading and fans go to games, not Parliament. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47717	Well, here's colleague Roshin, you've talked a lot about the work of a state attorney and it's true that the preparations were a little longer. But it should be said that we are all responsible for this because by passing the law and finally giving and the funds needed for the work of both the USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office, we have made it possible for the state's attorney to do this all we see now. We know he has a lot of drawers and a lot of closets, but we're eternal optimists. We hope that one day they will start pulling out of those drawers in 2003, which must have been the year and the year and the most corruption and crime I understand. At least by the amount of money spent without public procurement, I'm not going to mention that 4 million or can I mention 210 fire tanks? So, it's getting more and more big than it was trucks, and it's the same pattern. There were government decisions in closed sessions, so there were a lot of things that were done without any basis. Therefore, one day a drawer will be opened by drawer, and my colleagues here on my right, I pray that they will be patient here, and they will come in turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47718	Mr. Roshin's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47719	I'm sorry if I wasn't clear enough in my speech, you're absolutely right, in a way you completed me. But I was just about to say that the process of researching something and coming to an end is very complex and sometimes very long because there are no instruments for it. The state's attorney here spoke for the speaker defending his report when he was attacked for one specific case by one of our parliamentary representatives, I don't need to tell you who he was, when he said he wasn't at the market in Zapresic. I think that picture he gave showed how some things worked and which way they went. Anyway, I said justice might be slow, but consistent. He said he was very thorough and that for everything that is speculated, there should be very strong evidence. Even what I see and confidently can testify that, if I cannot prove it, it remains only in my words. I believe that Bajic is professional enough and that his entire team is professional enough that when he comes out with something in the end he's sure that's the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47720	Thank you. We have a replica of Mrs. Anna Lovrin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47721	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Agent Roshin, you said you'd support the appointment of the attorney general for the reason it's obvious from the report to improve his work because he now has 70% of the convictions and that's true. In fact, not 70 but for this year almost 90, but many of us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament and in 2005 will remember that it was precisely the SDP who warmly supported the gentleman at the time of the same chief state attorney. In 2005, when the State's Attorney's Office had only 40% of the convictions. Which means that the charges were unquality, it was accused of a court that didn't judge. Then I asked if we should turn our thoughts and heads towards the state's attorney's office? Do they have tools and do they make good accusations? It was the Croatian government in this and the previous meeting that brought about a series of amendments to the laws it gave to the State's Attorney's Office tools and which could then do its job in order to have almost 90% of the convictions today. In contrast with the representatives of Lesar, I also read in the reports that help was sought both in the teaming and in the resources of the state budget provided by this Croatian Parliament in some legal changes where the State's Attorney's advice was also listened to. But today this same state's attorney's office is not good, his 2008 report. The SDP doesn't accept. Why? With the sole argument that, in a particular case, it had not done so before the conduct and investigation and the investigation, as it did with the day-to-day political wishes of the SDP. Or maybe it's because some drawers or shrimps will open up there some years ago and you might see how the Pliva was sold. Perhaps in these new investigations they will recall that the Pliva control package was sold in 2003, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47722	Thank you, ma'am. Here you go, Mr. Roshin, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47723	My colleagues, Lovrin, you made an illustration of the time when Mr. Bajic came and now that 40% and almost now 90%. It may be partly the result of the difference in the behaviour of that duty as a person, but it is also a large part of the question of the tools that are available for someone to work. I'm reading from this not only that the attorney general is willing to work but that he has instruments, that he has tools to work with. Unfortunately, there are lots of shovels out there that have no one to take in their hands. Although if you leave a shovel somewhere in the court, be sure no one will steal it from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47724	Thank you. We've got more replicas. Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47725	Dear colleague Roshin, speaking of the effectiveness of the attorney's office, you listed a percentage of 98% of the disputes received in court. In doing so, you are making a logical and methodological mistake that the prime minister made this morning, presenting the government's proposal and defending Bajic and praising his success. Namely, what does this percentage say, this 98 or 89% data? That's the percentage of cases successfully completed before the court. This can speak of the quality of the prepared charges because they are a little in court. That says that 89% of the charges resulted in a conviction, but that still doesn't say anything about the success of the attorney's office in the part where it doesn't go to the chase where it's supposed to be. Because that information, when the State's Attorney's office isn't being prosecuted for political reasons, it doesn't get into this statistic. Therefore, this statistic is accurate and it honors her, but it cannot undo the the thesis that someone does not deserve to be appointed as a state attorney because he neither presses charges nor pursues political fear or political respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47726	Mr. Jerko Roshin's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47727	Let me start by saying that the thesis is not a claim, but a position has been expressed, to begin with. Secondly, to continue with your usual appearance, you are not talking about what the subject is, but what you would like to say. If you'd listened to me very carefully, and if you look at the phonogram, I've never said a 98% number, I haven't said anything about the success of that number at all. Maybe the Prime Minister said that, but I don't, and you're replicating me, not the Prime Minister. And I only told my replica committee to my colleague Lovrin about 40 and 80%, and almost 90% of what she said, I didn't say it. So you couldn't replicate it to me because it's just not true. And secondly, when you talk about success, it means accepting a court to judge what the State's Attorney's office thought was supposed to judge, there's an opinion of the court that is, the problem is that the public thinks, because it's so presented that everything the state's attorney in some way prosecutes, initiates, accuses it of having to end that way, but then the courts shouldn't, but all the cases would end at the level of the state's attorney's office or prosecution. The problem is when a friend of mine tells me if one of our assembly colleagues is not convicted of being a disgrace to Croatia, and perhaps something in the process was wrong. Perhaps some document, some evidence was not presented and perhaps some was misinterpreted, but why should we go into judging what someone else should be judged.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47728	Thank you. And finally the replica, Mr. Krešimir Cosic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47729	Dear Representative Roshin pointed to various types of pressures which the State's Attorney General has been particularly exposed to in his work, one of these types of pressures applies to the media for various reasons, these reasons can be objective because of the role of the media, in order to provide the public with real truth, sometimes these interests can be commercial and then we really come to an unacceptable type of pressure, media, and even to the public indirectly to the work of the state's attorney. The responsibility and importance of the media is indeed necessary to highlight, objective information, professional information, investigative journalism, etc., all of what is an integral part of modern, developed, competent democracy. However, very often this does not seem that way in Croatia's reality. I'll only mention one case, one experience last summer, one affair that got a strong spin for political reasons, were taken over in the media, on the front pages, in a way that didn't correspond either to objective information about reality or truth. Instead of the information that was to be given to the public by experts, scientific doctors, etc., the main media information came from a man who was absolutely not competent to give, condemn a particular problem. A man who is uneducated, incompetent informed the Croatian public. Unfortunately, the information of five doctors of science has never been given a place in the media or in the Croatian public, it is this conflict of interest that deserves attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47730	Thank you. Mr. Roshin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47731	By the way, I mentioned the media as part of our public, our daily event, and I didn't think I should particularly apostrophe them. The media has great merits that one segment of the media of investigative journalism has smelled a lot, explored etc., the problem is only when it goes to judgment rather than just to make it available to someone else. The media also bear their own responsibility and their praises, bear themselves and their plight as we all are expensive, but it is very important that the media do not take over the office of the courtroom but only warning and letting people who need professional care about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47732	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47733	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Introductoryly, I would like to say something that I think and call on the state attorney to say once and for all something that is left behind as a dilemma from 2001, 2002, and 2003 that now after 7 years more, and I think it is very important to make it clear whether something exists or doesn't exist, especially if something exists after 7 years, and you, Mrs. Lovrin, are talking about some packages and what it was in 2003, you're not quite invited to talk about it, because you've been removed from the minister, because you didn't have the strength and the ability to deal with organised crime and corruption. The state's attorney is a very important duty, his independence, honesty and justice are very important for building citizens' trust in the state's institutions. I think Mladen Bajic is very good quality, professional and capable but I resent his indecision that in a political climate that was fierce against even mentioning corruption, let alone any action in the fight against corruption has done nothing. What I would like to say to you, dear colleagues, is not a good division of yours and ours, we never looked at it that way in the SDP even when we proposed State Attorney Mladen Bajic in 2001. When you speak yours and ours because you view things in such a way, not according to the criteria of ability, independence, honesty and justice, then you should know that Mladen Bajić was not two years old in charge during the government of Ivica Racan, and the other 6 years by the criteria that you hold most important is yours. The outbreak of corruption by a respected colleague and colleagues is not since yesterday, not since three months ago, and especially since six months ago when the former prime minister left. It's a process that's been going on for years, but with the inaction of the state's attorney's office, a license has been issued for the corrupt behaviour of the authorities. It did not seem almost anything to make it clear that corruption in Croatia has grown to unprecedented proportions and not only to the top of the government but to be created, organised and implemented there and that all this has led to the escalation of corruption within ministries and public enterprises. It's very whiteishly clear in the last six months that you've all been calling on together. The affairs that last for over five years, four years and a day today are as open as Sunny Hvar, including Maestro and Liburni Hotel, so let's remind ourselves in the context of the big media debate and all that's going on around Podravka, that one company was also sold on political agreement in Verona, I'm talking about Pliva. And also in 2007, the esteemed vice president of the esteemed House here warned about malfeasance, and there have been certain applications in "Podravka", and since 2007 that a reaction may have been made, perhaps, a huge amount of money could have been saved. There is also the Island of Knowledge, i.e. hotels "Koločep" which have become active in the last two, three days. Because I am afraid that this is going into the function of resolving some uncleared relations in terms of taking over Croatian television. And what connects everything together, this state-run summit, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, ministers? All this remained intact because the top of the government was in a certain way responsible for the things that were happening in these institutions, because ministers and government members were sitting on the boards and boards of the same companies whose administrations now filled the Remetinac. "Brodosplit" is mentioned here, and I will mention it for a reason where the story of the lack of co-operation between the police and the State's Attorney's Office pointed to certain illegalities and irregularities, and the police were neatly crossing and doing nothing and doing nothing about "Brodosplit". It was rarely heard from high, unofficial, anonymous sources from the State's Attorney's Office that this was becoming a major obstruction in the police and that some things could not be done. I would appreciate it more if we could have heard it from the state's attorney, if he had said it loudly, if he had said it publicly and said it in the Croatian Parliament, it is also his obligation because this esteemed House among other things is choosing him on duty. The prime minister said in her opening statement that the government had succeeded in building a legislative system to fight corruption and that is correct. And we were all involved in it together, and we all helped together. But there's an open question. What's been going on for six years? All those people who participated now in the construction of that system or proposed it were sitting in that government and then and now. And she was the closest associate of the former prime minister. Legislative legislation is not the greatest restriction, but rather a policy that did not allow the investigation of crime of every kind. No one must be untouchable before the law and the speed of reaction and efficiency should be equal absolutely for all. Whether they belong to this political option or to that political party, they must all be absolutely equal before the law. But also the State Attorney's Office and all those bodies that have to do their work independently of politics must be quick, efficient and have to do their job regardless of whether there was an air conditioning or the climate has changed now, whether these circumstances were not, and now these circumstances exist. Astonishing was the speed that a former minister's official was amnested by the State's Attorney's office that he wasn't guilty. Even astoundingly, the only thing that was more rapid was how the State's Attorney's Office reacted to the prime minister's apartment and the question about her apartment, regardless of what had been going on for years and could have been solved long ago, not when she had recently been out in public. But also the fact that there was a certain Constitutional Court ruling saying that this rule was not legal, that it was immoral, because under that rule, a man who was at that time was extremely powerful could decide whatever he wanted. Whatever he wanted, he could decide, and in truth, he could have done it under that rule. It is also a fact that one tenant right of apartment 38 square meters after a certain time that same tenancy right was transferred from an apartment of 38 square meters to a 90 square-square apartment. It's just facts and my thoughts. I voted twice against the state's attorney's report. And of course I will not support the choice at this time again Mladen Bajic for the state's chief attorney for the reason that I believe that the state's attorney, in addition to those characteristics that I have cited, must be very quality, professional, capable and qualified for the work he does, must be determined to sometimes swim against electricity, to sometimes swim with electricity because he works absolutely for the public and in the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47734	Thank you. We have 5 corrections and 5 replicas. First the corrections. My practice is so that it wouldn't happen to be, if someone first reported for correction, then all the corrections go. If someone picks up the replica first, then all the replicas go. So I'll keep it up. The first is Mr. Niko Rebic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47735	So you incorrectly entrenched your colleague Dragovan that you did not see who is yours. By coming to power in 2001, you cleaned up all HDZ personnel and state attorneys. Unlike you, we're estimating by the work of your state's attorney that you brought in, we think he was doing well, we left him behind, here we are today choosing him. And because you're no longer good with your friend, here I was the only one who wasn't for Mladen Bajic, now that you're against it, I'll be for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47736	It's more like a replica, right? Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Please let the corrections be what is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47737	So by correcting without the yellow tiles. So a correction similar to this one here is not true that we share cases on yours and ours. The president of your party today has proved that, too, which has listed only a few cases that occur in your party, but these are cases insignificant by which we will not. You also mentioned "Brodosplit" yourself, and you didn't mention, say, Lenac, you didn't mention hotels that were sold into incriminating, management rights of the INA or anything like that. So you're pretty much dividing cases into yours and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47738	Mrs. Anna Lovrin, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47739	Thank you very much. Here I will also correct that assumption that the SDP does not share the perpetrators or suspects in the crimes of corruption on yours and ours but something different. We just attended one such division today because your club president in his opening presentation gave a lesson to the prime minister because she dared to respond in the current hour and mentioning some cases from the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47740	Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47741	I'm correcting that it's not true that it's not shared on yours and ours. It is shared because the prime minister's response was "The MP would be consistent and credible that after five or six cases of insinuation to HDZ, he also mentioned a first-degree verdict compared to the former SDP assistant minister" etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47742	Correction of Madam Representative Neda Klaric. And right away, it's exactly what's being fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47743	Thank you very much. The incorrect allegation is a Mr. MP who says Mr. Bajic has done nothing to prevent corruption. This is incorrect because we have just been able to see how much Mr. Bajic has actually done in protection, in terms of protecting state property through the book as much as we will see what he will do in the future to protect property, state property through a new legislative framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47744	And correction Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47745	Thank you, Mr. President. I claim that the incorrect claim made by Mr. Dragovan, namely that the Constitutional Court annulled the regulations on the basis of which the then defence minister allowed the purchase of the apartment of Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, so that he annulled it, that it was illegal and immoral. Namely, the Constitutional Court did not repeal that rule but abolished it and that is an important difference. In fact, if he had annulled it then all acts which were based on that regulation would have been annulled and illegal. Namely, the Constitutional Court abolished it and it abolished it because it wasn't published in the People's Newspaper. And the other thing is, it's not true it's illegal. In his argument, the Constitutional Court said that the minister had the right to adopt such a regulation under the law. And the third thing, the Constitutional Court did not say it was immoral because the Constitutional Court did not enter into whether an act was moral or immoral, but the Constitutional Court abolished it only because it was not published in "The People's Newspaper".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47746	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first to report came from Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47747	Thank you very much. Comrade Dragovan, you have rightly noticed that SDP never insists on people because they are ours or yours. Absolutely, the first criterion is expertise and responsibility and the ability to do the job you are entrusted with. If that were the case, the SDP should now support Mladen Bajic because he suggested it. By your standard, gentlemen of HDZ, Mladen Bajic is ours. But we see exactly the opposite that the work has not been done properly and we think that these things should be changed. Whether Mladen Bajic is the only person in Croatia who is responsible and who can be given to do the job, absolutely not. And when you have touched Prime Minister Kosor's apartment now, is it perhaps unlikely that the State's Attorney's Office will solve the case of Prime Minister Kosor's apartment in one day? Does that look a little suspicious? Or Prime Minister Kosor is in a link with Mladen Bajic as the day she invited him after former Prime Minister Sanader's press release to visit her in the government. Are we talking about political pressures here? I think we're talking about political pressures before anything else. The attorney's office is not so urgent when it comes to solving a lot of other things, but when it comes to giving an answer and covering for Prime Minister Kosor in one day, everything is solved. No problem, we'll make a tough decision, it'll all be legal. So please don't say that because you will name Mladen Bajic, you will stop with political pressures.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47748	Look, it's possible that since Mrs. Kosor's apartment has been troubled a long time ago, there are a few years that the State's Attorney's office has actually examined it and it shouldn't have taken another five months to solve it right now. It's possible, I'm not saying it's like that, I'm not saying anything. He now has a replica of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47749	A colleague of Dragovan's when you spoke and you literally said it like this. We were watching, so when you appointed Mladen Bajic, it was nothing more than doing his job. It caused a salva of laughter, kegs and disdain on the other side, by HDZ. I don't think Mr. Bajic's major insult and the General State's Attorney's Office could have experienced it. So what he doesn't believe, what he truly doesn't believe is that he was independent and that no one pressured him, then they don't believe it because they can't get out of their shell, they measure themselves with their elbow. They think, they're still convinced that when they're in power to have the judiciary as a whole be their maid, it's literally their way of understanding. Here's another example, it's a scandal, for the judiciary a couple of exellances, this has not yet happened that one out of the intelligence community is a certain Dinko Majic of the Operational Technical Centre giving orders to the courts to act in the technical and operational measures that the State's Attorney is seeking and the court approves. It gives a warrant, it dares all courts of municipal jurisdiction and has given the county such orders. Well, it's a front-row scandal. Mrs. Prime Minister Kosor is silent, journalists are asking what's wrong with it, is the government naming this guy. She's keeping her mouth shut about it. That's what counterpart Dragovan thought, what he thought and what he would think as long as he was in power about the independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47750	It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47751	Thank you very much. You see, colleague Dragovan, your concerns about the political submission of the attorney general are extremely hollow and the hollows are for that reason because during this particular government, this chief state attorney has launched a series of actions in the fight against crime. And I'm asking you, given that in 2002, you proposed him and brought him to the post of Attorney General, if one action had been launched against one of you during that period. It's not. Why not? Because you mentioned the late Rachan. You know why he didn't? Because he was politically constrained. And look, the birds on the branches have been whispering to you about certain affairs that there's still time for the attorney general to launch. Suspicible sales of 25% of the INA and Pliva strategic package, so Sunny Hvar damage to the state, INA sales of gas stations, Rijeka Bank, etc., not to mention now and not to mention any more unresolved affairs he's dealing with must still be done. And as for the pronunciation of the apartment, I think we should really think about it when you just said that. Your party president abused the position, came into conflict of interest, used his position to gain some benefits in a bank that these citizens in this country cannot get. And finally, I really understand why the HDSSB is against the appointment of Mr. Glavas. It's completely clear to me, but it's really incomprehensible to me why the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47752	You don't propose to Head for... Answer, Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47753	Mr. Kunst, you're very contradictory. First you say what Mladen Bajic is or what he should investigate in 2001, '02, '03. etc. So why didn't he do it? And now you're proposing it again. You're contradictory. You've been talking about some things now, and he's been a state's attorney ever since. First of all, there was an investigative committee in Victor Lentz where you all sat down and said that everything was fine, Excelsior and all of these affairs, everything was rejected by the State's Attorney's office and this is the only example, Mr. Kunst, in which you try to get dirty, in which you try to dirty everything. They're not all the same, they're not all the same, they're not all the same, and they're not all the same in front of the law because they're the ones that steal, and they're not the ones that steal. One of them hides the theft, and the other one doesn't hide it, and they fight in public to expose everything. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47754	Replica, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47755	Thank you very much. Comrade Dragovan and you have seen four things that have been repeated in the debate so far. A favourable climate for fighting corruption now reportedly exists. When the HAC replaced administrations and supervisory committees, they said they were removed because of an adverse climate. So we have a problem with climate change. If the climate is the most important criterion in the appointment of a state lawyer, then I would be free to propose the best expert on climate change in Croatia, which is Mr Sirkovic. However, the fourth point that is constantly mentioned is political will. If the political will to fight corruption is now present, and it was not before then we actually admit that we have a problem in Croatia not with corruption but political corruption, so the other direction of seeking the best candidate for state attorney would be Remetinec, because there are bags or there will be those bags that have proven their capacity for political corruption and understand best how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47756	Thank you. And Mrs. Biljana Borzana, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47757	Well, here's colleague Dragovan, you spoke at the beginning of your expertise presentation, of Mr. Bajic's competence. That is definitely why the SDP proposed him as a state attorney while we were in power, also supported his re-election when we were in opposition, supported his reports from two years ago. So, we were very consistent that we were being respected on the opposite side of the assembly that we weren't, but in the meantime there were two moments. One is that the fight against corruption by the State's Attorney's office has simply proved insufficiently active, therefore inefficient, and on the other hand we have neither in the public nor today on the other side of the assembly any too much explanation for what happened that Mr. Bajic suddenly began to investigate and open huge affairs. Of course, we have doubts that the agreement with the prime minister has begun to open affairs because the government has no response to the crisis, so now it entertains the public through the opening of corruption affairs. Is that a reason? Here I'd like to hear from HDZ what actually happened. I don't get it. Everyone here at HDZ is pretending not to notice that Mr. Bajic suddenly lived up to it. What's the real reason for that? That's what everybody's silent about. And because it's doubt that it's definitely not about him suddenly figuring out what his job is, it's up to us not to support his re-election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47758	Thank you very much. And before the break, we will hear the debate of Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47759	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I have to admit that it's sad every time in this House to listen to a debate where when you start talking about certain problems or some human resources, that basically always from the HDZ ranks, you try to throw as much mud as possible to make them all look the same, all equally unfair, all equally unconsistencies, all equally thieves. But I think it's a damage that's equally done to HDZ and SDP and to all the people who deal with politics and to such behaviours where they can't resist, so instead of arguments, things are used, so they don't stand. So, this mud-popping has led to us politicians being the category of people who are least popular in Croatian society, so you gentlemen keep going, I will try the way I've performed in politics so far, stick to arguments and some facts. The fact is that two years ago, so twice in a row, we rejected State Attorney Mladen Bajic's report because we felt he was not fighting corruption, against organised crime. We felt that too many affairs were open in the media, that none of them were closed. In my speeches here, I told Mr. Bajic that I believe he is as responsible as anyone else for dirtying up the political space. Because if politicians have several criminal reports, some even have several dozen criminal charges, and for years these applications are not resolved in one way or another, then there is room for continued dirtying of political space. So, I expect the state's attorney to report criminal charges to anyone who's been filed in prisons or in a way that says they're unfounded, that there's no reason for further prosecution, if there are elements, then let the process that follows. So that's what I last objected to him. I objected to him, as I do today, that he did not say publicly, primarily in this House that chooses him, who are these people who obstruct certain investigations. So some affairs have been open for years. We are here primarily, my colleague Jurjevic insisted, for years on the Brodosplit affair in order for us here to get information that someone is obstructing, but we need to know who he is who is obstructing. We can't know that. Mr. Mladen Bajic can and knows why he does not want to say and point to anyone who works against the interests of the state, the interests of the citizens of this Republic. That's all he knows. That's the kind of behavior I can't reward in a way to raise my hand for him. Mr. Bajic will have to show a little more courage, even with his colleagues working with this government. I know, for example, that there were interviews in which the former director was resolved at the time of the murder of Ivana Hodak, who said that they could not solve certain things that were related to organised crime because they did not receive adequate information and did not have adequate monitoring of SOA that should have determined their part of the job. Unfortunately, the man who was sitting at the head of the SOA by then, Mr Karamarko, was awarded today by the post of Minister of the Interior. Whether Mr. Karamarko is covering things up or not today, I don't know. That's what Mr. Bajic would have to say. And you'd have to say, so who are these people who've been obstructing him all along that he couldn't discover the "Brodosplit" affair, which is very quickly entering the age-old sphere. According to that, our people would say "eat a donkey wolf and nothing." The money from Brodosplit disappeared, the company in trouble, the workers most likely on the road. And those who took the money with them will not be punished as things stand now. They say the only criterion Mr. Bajic had to deal with so far was that those in power were satisfied with him at the time, so Ivo Sanader was satisfied with Mr. Bajic for not processing certain things. Mrs. Kosor is pleased today that some of the processes have begun. However, as this is a sincere fight against corruption, and as far as this is concerned, so to say, to help clean up one political party, this will be seen in the next period. So at this point, it seems to me that only those whom the party has disowned are being persecuted. Why do I think that? I mean, because there were a lot of elements that the prime minister herself was showing up about some people sitting in her government today. In particular, here I think of Mr. Minister Calmetu whose ministry is full of numerous affairs. And it's very interesting that Mr. Calmeta when we managed to get him here to come and talk about some things, that with the help of impelation, he said here that he had no need to do any checking in his ministry whether some writings were justified or not justified. However, it is very interesting that within a few days after some newspaper inscriptions or better said after the launch of Ivo Sanader, he requested an investigation to see why and how some fees and a certain amount of money were paid to Mirjana Sanader. So, very interesting when he was concerned there were no checks. And when it comes to Mirjana Sanader, then the checks suddenly started. That's all I'm saying is that obviously Mr. Kalmeta is protected in HDZ unlike Polancec and some others who paid with their heads because the party simply gave them up, and it's clearly an argument that is constantly expiring from the HDZ ranks that Mr. Kalmeta has brought 10 mandates to the Croatian democratic community quite enough to be protected from any investigations in his portfolio which I believe is in fact something that Prime Minister Kosor has definitely fallen into a sincere fight against corruption. So this, I'd just like to say one more thing about Mr. Bajic's work. I'll tell you this specifically. So, many of the affairs that I've been talking about here, I've just mentioned some, so "Brodosplit" and some of them have been affairs that have been being dragged for years. So, some things are solved within three days, such as the statement on Mrs. Kosor's apartment, so the prime minister. Although it is very questionable why Mr. Bajic did not manifest himself in 2005 when the president of the state in the campaign talked about the apartment when the story was launched. So, the State's Attorney's office was silent at the time. Only today when Mrs. Kosor is in the prime minister's position then the State's Attorney's Office reacts. However, look at the "Sun-Hvar" affair for six years, the "Behtll" affair for six years, the "Shimatzu" affair for six years, the "Imostroy" affair for six years, the "Kamioni" affair waited for five years until the debate was opened in this House through the commission and until some arguments and papers came out in public, so there was nowhere else. It also seems to me that Mr. Ex-Secretary is someone the party gave up. The "Liburnia" affair for five years, an affair of buying councilmen for five years, the "Verona" affair for five years, the "Broedoplit" affair for five years, the "Kim" affair for three years, the "Sanader and Hypo Bank" affair for 7 years, the "Krasodgrad" affair for 3 years, the apartment of Jadranka Kosor for 3 days. That's what we talk about all the time. Why aren't some affairs closed within six or seven years, and why are some stories closed within three days? And in the end, you know gentlemen of this great corruption that is organized as some of my predecessors have said at the very top of the government is not responsible for one man and cannot be responsible for one man. Many who sat with him are responsible, and I will say that this government that is across the street from the Ban Courts is the government of continuity. Most of the ministers in that government are people who have sat together with Ivo Sanader for all six years, and some have said for years "where Ivo Sanader and I are". So I find it really strange that today those same people who said it that way and were his right hand wonders where such great corruption came from in the very peaks of power. You are also responsible here, gentlemen, for clapping on every word of his spoken word in this House, which you have built a cult of personalities from Eve Sanader as you are now doing a cult of personalities from Jadranka Kosor. You stood up for him, and now you've all given him up, and it's one man's fault for you. Now, gentlemen, you're carrying part of your responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47760	Thank you. We have six corrections and one replica. First is Mr. Franjo Lucic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47761	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of a colleague of parliament who says that simply no one is doing well and that I refer primarily to state attorney Bajic, Minister Karamark, and that I am not counting any further. Well, ma'am, we understand from your dictionary and your rhetoric that nothing is right. But at the same time, the prime minister who took steps, so in terms of corruption, it's not enough for you. When we talk about Minister Karamark who has really shed light on many cases in Croatia, because you haven't even been satisfied with the previous minister today, you're not good with that minister either. And what good is it for you, anyway, and what are you happy with? Well, of course you're not happy with the prime minister who is doing everything she can to shed light on many cases today and to bring Croatia out of this economic crisis together with this government. It's not fair for you to talk like this with a rhetoric like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47762	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47763	And by the choice of a respected colleague of Milanka Opačić, I will correct two incorrect allegations of hers. The first is that Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor has failed her exam in the fight against corruption because Minister Kalmeta has not been removed. It's an incorrect claim I wouldn't go on to explain. And second, only to process those who gave up HDZ, the party they gave up. It's an incorrect claim, because it's simply not true, without any explanation of the additional, it's obvious that it's not true. And thirdly, but I'll put that in some other context, during the debate. Mrs. Anna Lovrin's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47765	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Madam Representative said it was incorrect that Minister Calmeta was protected because he had brought the HDZ 10 mandates. So, I don't know where she heard it, when someone posted it in HDZ, that's the first thing. That's incorrect. Minister Kalmeta and, of course, only investigates against some persons something from his portfolio, so, as far as I know, Minister Kalmeta has, for example, filed criminal charges for some of the work that took place in Croatia's railways, even during the former prime minister, and then, as we know, an investigation is being carried out in the Croatian highways, in the Croatian railways. So that's what we're talking about, that the state's attorney, Bajic, is running investigations without remembering that he led anyone in the government's term in 2000 to 2003 in the portfolio of any minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47766	Thank you. Mrs. Neda Klaric's correction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a representative who says Prime Minister Kosor has failed her exam in preventing corruption. It is incorrect, because every day from the rhetoric and actions of Prime Minister Kosor we can see, in fact, her daily testimony about the ruthless and unholy fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47768	Correction, Mrs. Sunny Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47769	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a partial correction of the quote from my colleague, Lovrin. So I'm just going to say one more time it's not true and the HDZ has not declared it anywhere that Minister Kalmeta has remained because he has brought 10 mandates to HDZ. It may be someone who regrets that there are no 10 mandates in that constituency, but here they are on the side of the HDZ. Likewise, it is incorrect and I have already said that we politicians are the most hated in society. You don't need to look at the popularity table, because this isn't a popularity competition, and especially not from the bottom part, because there are obviously the names of colleagues there, so they don't like it. I will just remind myself that as Prime Minister and HDZ President, she is the most popular politician in Croatia, but not because it would only be a competition in popularity, but because she is implementing the law, because she is doing a responsible job, and because she is trying to perform together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia this country from the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47770	Thank you. And finally, the correction of Mrs. Representative Bozica Solic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47771	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's MP Opacic said in her debate, the prime minister has fallen in the fight against corruption, you carry part of the same responsibility. Mrs. Opacic, that's absolutely not true. I personally absolutely do not feel part of the responsibility, not a single shred, and now I will tell you exactly what I have been saying here for more than 3 years in this assembly, warning the SDP to pay attention to how and how crime takes place in the City of Zagreb, who conducts it. Mrs. Opacic, I've been warned many times by you that it's not true, that it's a lie, that I insinuate, that these are my inventions. Mrs. Opacic, it's been 10 years today, which turned out to be? Zagreb Holding in terrible losses. You say it's all Bandic's fault. No, I don't. It's your fault, too, because you were the ones who used Zagreb as your bank. You're the incasators that you made out of Holding which is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47772	Thank you very much. We also have one replica, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47773	Thank you very much. Mrs. Opacic, you're absolutely right when you talk about the prime minister, if she doesn't fail the corruption test, it's unconvincing. Because you can't be six years Deputy Prime Minister, another man in this country, and then all of a sudden you say, "Here I'm going to start fighting corruption." Well, it's not possible you didn't know anything. Did Prime Minister Kosor also succumb to the pressures of Prime Minister Sanader? This is like that old practice that puts everything on one person, and you turn out to be innocent and the one who's gonna change things from now on. Of course things won't change. And since it seems, after these discussions and the political pressures mentioned here and on the HDZ side, that's where fellow Shakespeare mentioned it in some interviews, it appears that the state's attorney has been former Prime Minister Sanader for the past six years until his resignation. So if you're satisfied with your HDZ colleagues as the attorney's office has worked for those six years, here's a practical proposal. Propose Sanader to be a state's attorney and you'll have the same situation you've had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47774	Answer, Mrs. Milanka Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47775	Well, Mr. Maras, here you are talking about the fact that the D.A. didn't work out well and that it turns out that Mr. Sanader was actually a state lawyer, not Mr. Bajic. In my speech, I said what I thought about Mr. Bajic's work, and now I'd just like to say something in this replica. In my debate not only this time, but also the last time I mentioned an affair that was also about people in the City of Zagreb, it was about "Krasgrad", which has not been resolved for three years, and therefore I called very principledly for all affairs to be closed. All those involved and people in HDZ, both in the SDP and elsewhere. And if Mr. Bajic had the need to do us any favors in the SDP by not doing an investigation, then I don't know if anyone told him, but I'm telling him that we don't need those services, let him do the job by law, do it according to his profession, and let him close these affairs independently or let him open them regardless of who's in which party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47776	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we will now stop working until 3:00 p.m. when we continue on this same item of the agenda, and there are representatives, first Gordan Maras, then Ivan Shantek, then Josip Salapic and so on. Thank you and pleasant. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we will proceed with the session. And we're on the same agenda. It's Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47778	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. When you're doing a responsible job like a state's attorney's job and a representative, a minister, President of the Parliament, it's not always easy. There are many factors that are limiting, there are pressures, there are obstructions. Here we have seen the relationship between fellow Stazic and Mr. Bebić. So it doesn't have to be everything ideal in life. There are problems inside the organization, people can not love you, they can deliberately obstruct things, etc. But with all these restrictions at the end of the term, you must give an analysis of whether the person who did the job did what she could and whether the results of her work were satisfactory. I am saying this because many discussions have marked the work of the past two mandates, not more than in the last 6 years of Mr Bajic and there have been strong political pressures. Here's a colleague of the Shacks talking about auto-censorship within the then government while being led by Prime Minister Sanader, etc. So he's trying to show himself in some way, so here's the minister of speech now no more untouchable. It creates the impression that for six years it was untouchable and now suddenly after six years it can be done normally and there it should be seen if it is the state's attorney who is able to do the job in the best way. So you have to consider all the facts. I am not satisfied with the argument that there have been political pressures, primarily always everything comes together now it is very popular on former Prime Minister Sander and that he was pushing Bajic, that he keeps things in drawers etc. Is through the police whether directly to the attorney's office doesn't matter. It turns out that really, after all the discussions we've heard quite often and on the ruling side, he's been a state lawyer for 6 years Ivo Sanader, not Mladen Bajic. 8 years is a long time when you can estimate if the person is optimal for the place he performs. To get another four years in office would mean that someone 12 years in charge. I'm an aprior to keep people busy forever, so let's say the President of the Republic can't be in a longer term than 10 years. So we should see if Mr. Bajic is the only person who could do this in Croatia at the moment. I'm absolutely sure not, especially when we consider the controversy that revolves around it. Speaking now, some HDZ colleagues will finally open the drawers. Well, it's apriori, here's fellow Markovanovic in his debate. Well, that's Mr. Bajic's apriori conviction. If he's going to open drawers now, and he's been hiding criminal charges and misdemeanors for six years, so how does he legitimize a man for a job in the next term? You say the SDP is against Bajic because he wants to stop the fight against corruption and is not satisfied that Prime Minister Kosor is on the move. So we gentlemen have been fighting corruption and pointing to corruption in this and last HDZ government for six, seven years. So we can fight those stories. Since we are not fighting, and Prime Minister Kosor, who for six years was Ivo Sanader's right hand in government with him, participated in all of these or most of these affairs that are now being mentioned, because she was responsible, as she is now suddenly fighting corruption, and the SDP is against corruption. Here's an example of INA, so Prime Minister Kosor was headed by the Croatian Defence Fund. When MOL made a public offer to buy INA shares, shareholders calculated. Is he gonna sell or not? Is the price of two thousand 800 kuna correct or not? And just now, Prime Minister Kosor was the first to sell in the second round of privatisation of the INA stock to MOL and thus direct privatisation towards MOL because it was promised and apparently agreed by Prime Minister Sanader. So she executed his warrant. And that proves to you that she simply cannot stand the thesis that she knew nothing, that she is now a anti-corruption fighter and that Sanader is the one who is responsible for everything that happened in Croatia. That's what I'd say is a tried-out practice and what Prime Minister Kosor learned from the former Sanader's prime minister. Sacrifice someone to protect yourself. Here's the case in the assembly bench, two ministers sitting ex. One is Lovrin, one of the representatives of Roncevic who were removed to save himself at that time, because there was a great tragedy and the public pressure was such that someone was to be sacrificed. He sacrificed the two, and now Prime Minister Kosor to show that she is a great anti-corruption fighter sacrificing former Prime Minister Sanader and pointing at all the affairs with his fingertips. Of course it can't be the right policy. The right policy is if you really want to eradicate any irregularities that occur in Croatia. And if it were really wanted, then the prime minister would convince me with some quality not in terms of the expertise of the proposal, because apparently the state lawyer Bajic is an expert man, but on the belief that there will be no such thing as what has been happening in the last six years. It cannot be a person who has, in this way, admitted that there has been pressure on her and has not processed the matter as it should have been handled. Much greater confidence would have been achieved by Prime Minister Kosor if she had drawn a new person with references to the mandate in the coming period. And were the political pressures? Apparently they are. Two kinds of pressures have already been mentioned. One puts her in a drawer, the other presses someone to show himself as a anti-corruption fighter. I'll give you an example, and the classics are put in a drawer, it's "The Trucks." That's what we talked about for five years, hiding that affair. And a long example is the Maestro affair, where Prime Minister Sanader, at one point, wished to be shown to him as someone fighting corruption in the state government and made one big arrest of four vice presidents of whom one was truly guilty, but one man sat in prison for a year and a half, it was about Mr. Ivan Gotovina, who was eventually released. He was sitting for one roast, so Prime Minister Sanader would turn out to be a great anti-corruption fighter at the time. Now, that's another way that law enforcement doesn't need to work. Or I'll tell you now, it's not just Prime Minister Sanader, he's not the only one who has the exclusive of these pressures on the D.A.'s office. Here, in the past six months, Prime Minister Kosor has proved quite skilled at it. The first case is, of course, the famous apartment that got rid of it after three days. President of Parliament Bebic said it might be a coincidence. If for five years it is decided that there should be a coincidence after the prime minister has been called by the opposition because it really needs to be a big coincidence in three days. Of course it's not a coincidence, they were working phones and the state's attorney did it to cover the prime minister's story and that the prime minister might then wave go to the state's attorney's office and see what it is. Or another thing, the answer to the question in the current hour of Prime Minister Kosor's compatriated affairs and said here you in the SDP have the naughty boyfriends and set an example of an affair where real estate was sold in front of everyone for the price that was later found at the witch's finding back four years turned out to be something lower than it was supposed to be but real estate was sold in a public competition. So everyone could have picked up. The decision was made by the headship, and for this time Mladen Bajic seems to be chasing a member of the SDP, and this is what Prime Minister Kosor is equating with affairs where 10 million kunas have disappeared in private pockets with affairs such as INA where we have put a practical company in the face of affairs where billions of kunas have disappeared over all these years and in some ways the prime minister wished to have an example on this side. But these are really funny comparisons that can't be put in the same basket. Or a great insubordination that, of course, no one can justify some colleagues who took travel expenses and returned and then a colleague, or Prime Minister Kosor, combines it with those who are in Remitinc today. Normally, it can't be the same as what, it can't be works the same as the ones people blame themselves for today and who are in custody today. Law-related affairs that are not as small as Brodosplit, which has a great chance of falling into obsolescence, like trucks, such as HZ, HEP, roads, are all affairs that are not spotlessly handled. Someone mentioned, I think my colleague Opačić is also some sort of an affair that is spinning in Zagreb, here is that my colleague Šolić does not think that Zagreb is not mentioned. Yes, the affairs are spinning in Zagreb and should also be called on by the attorney's office that there is no need to wait three years with the opening of some stories and keeping things in the drawer. We don't have any scruples to call and somewhere where things aren't right where SDP is in power, Mrs. Solic. Don't think, I can see that you've lifted a tile, you'll probably have something around Zagreb again, but don't think that we have anything against opening things up here, but we're against being politically involved in getting out of affairs to prove they're all the same because it's not the same and it's not true that it's the same thing if someone took a travel expense and then returned it or that someone took 10 million kuna as a minister in the MORH. It just can't and it's not the same. So when we look at all things by saying about counterpart Bajic normally that no one is challenging his expertise and he will probably end his career in the State's Attorney's Office as he wished in 2020, but he will certainly not end his career as a state lawyer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47779	I will again point out that the evidence that someone has been prosecuted, the fact that someone has been detained, that someone under investigation is not proof that he is guilty without a warrant. Let's not play cops here, investigators, UskoK, the DA's office and judge more. This is where parliamentary representatives have to make it clear that it is not that someone is detained does not mean that he is guilty and I pray that we do not play lightly about human qualifications. Because those like the one who came out were washed after a year and a half, so the others can come out and be equally uncondemned and so on. And please, let's not do this here at the Croatian Parliament. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47780	The inaccuracy of counterpart Maras is one thesis that has been going through all day today, trying to make co-workers from the SDP, which is that former Prime Minister Sanader was in principle the state's attorney for eight years, not Mladin Bajic. ... Six years, good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] These are already flossules that really no longer make sense to repeat and I think colleague Maras will be perhaps more serious in this second part of the day since Croatian television no longer conveys it, but I do not see these seriousnesss. But I'll remind you, and the media recently published, you could read that exactly the profession, colleagues from the profession propose Mr. Bajic as the attorney general means those who understand the business, so please, you are certainly not qualified enough to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47781	Correction of Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47782	Mr. President, I have a few papers. One is where counterpart Maras said the prime minister had compromised SDP cases with major HDZ cases. The prime minister didn't compromise anything during the current hour, only to find out that there are these and those cases. Then you said she was prime minister to show that she was a great anti-corruption fighter to point a finger at Sanader. That's not true, you didn't support it with anything. Third, you said there was talk here this morning about political pressures. No one said there were political pressures except that you could conclude it from the newspaper's writings.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47783	Thank you. Correction Mr. Agent Ivan Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47784	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. There were several incorrect allegations, but I will correct only one fellow Maras. He said that Prime Minister Kosor had found the victims to save herself. I really think it is one true lie because the fact is that everyone sees the efforts of Prime Minister Kosor and that Europe and our entire environment appreciate these efforts, that she is a true anti-corruption fighter. Unfortunately, I don't know how in SDP people don't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47785	Thank you. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47786	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Maras didn't exactly say that Mrs. President said that she would even up some of the bad guys in the SDP. No, she said the facts and I'll do it again when she lists the people of the SDP who are under criminal arrest and who are under investigation and who are convicted by crime. It's a fact and it's true. In your discussion, please don't talk about Zagreb now. Why? Why does that bother you? Why did you confess today that there is both crime and corruption in the City of Zagreb? For four years you have denied me and made fun of me in some way when I warned you and warned that there was a crime in the City of Zagreb, but you were knowingly covering it up. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47787	Correction, Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47788	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to correct this inaccuracies, otherwise there's still such allegations. I quote, therefore, an esteemed colleague said, "The Minister of the Sea has taken 10 million kunas." It's an incorrect quote. However, he is so incorrect that he at least owes an apology from a parliamentary representative to another parliamentary representative in the far line. Namely, the procedure is ongoing. You, a distinguished colleague, have already ruled as a parliamentary representative. I'm not going to say that you're doing pressure like this or like that, but in the end, it's incorrect, malicious, and you have to at least apologize to your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47789	Thank you. Mr. Branko Box, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47790	I thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Maras said we have no scruples to call the State Attorney's Office where the SDP is in power. Mr. Maras, you just didn't give examples of where it was and when. You've been dealing with Mr. Bandic since he stepped forward, that is, since you kicked him out of the SDP, and your credibility is best spoken of yesterday by Mr. Šprem, our colleague, but the president of the City City of Zagreb Assembly that the Ministry of Spatial Planning is wrong about Warsaw. So much for your credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47791	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47792	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We are witnessing numerous affairs that have been public lately, and the perception of corruption is great. The jumping investigations covered numerous segments of Croatian society. Let us remember investigations into the purchase of fake disability, the purchase of exams at some universities, irregularities in the business of state and public enterprises, etc. However, even after all this, I have the feeling that a single important segment of our society has been spared, which is local regional self-government. According to my deep belief, this particular part of Croatian society actually generates the most perception that corruption has devoured all segments of society because it is closest to the citizen. Local officials are the most in contact with citizens, and any irregularities are the most visible right now. The local public reacts to these examples of corruption, most often opening topics at local Internet portal forums. The theme itself attracts a relatively small number of foramen and everything remains about it. Tomorrow is a new day, a new topic opens and so suddenly. All this leaves an impression in the eyes of citizens that the state is powerless in front of local powers, so corrupt behavior becomes acceptable and even expected by local politicians. Reilustration, I will give some examples of corrupt behavior from the middle I know best, which is Sisak-Moslavina County because I am a councilman in the County Assembly. Buying councilmen has become the usual thing in Sisak-Moslavina County. In December 2007, when the county budget of the DC Council was adopted, Gordana Krznaric, after two days, supported the adoption of the county budget, avoiding the disbanding of the county assembly and early elections. Four months later, employed in a trading company owned by Sisak-Moslavina County, of course without competition. The president of DC Vesna Škare-Ozbolt, what a coincidence, as a lawyer from Zagreb compared to 50 lawyers from Sisak-Moslavina County, gets a job in books of school facilities owned by Sisak-Moslavina County for compensation of 60 thousand 80 kuna. It's supposed to be in accordance with laws and regulations, but it still smells like corruption. Another example of buying councilman. After the latest local elections, Croatian Retired Party Vice Presidents Vladimira Greguric and Josip Reiner left their parties for someone's address and allowed their vote to bring down legally elected presidents and vice presidents of the county assembly. Due to such a procedure, HSU excluded them from its membership. However, the county for the award received seats from the mayor's advisers and five paid committees, although pensioners have retired with medium professional training and have no qualifications for advisory posts. It is important to point out that the mayor's post is carried monthly by 5 thousand kuna net, and the seat on the boards is about 3 thousand kuna, which makes up 8 thousand kuna a month or about 96 thousand a year or in the four-year term almost 400 thousand each. Third example of buying councilman. In the beginning of the last term, an open tender for the County Road Administration appears to be developed unemployed Croatian defenders who, under the same conditions, have the same advantages in the employment and wife of a councilman, a member of the ruling coalition. You're guessing who was admitted. The wife of the ruling coalition councilman. The defence attorney reports the case to the police, police file charges against Director ZUC, followed by a trial. The director was allegedly found guilty and punished. What happened next? Nothing. The director was re-elected after the term of office this summer, the council's wife is still a ZUC employee, and the unemployed developed Croatian defender is still unemployed. Example of abuse of a contract of action. As a councilman of the County Assembly of Sisak-Moslavina County, I asked the council to conclude a contract for work between 2008 and 2009, for which jobs, at what time and how much of this was paid from the county budget. I received an answer from Mayor Lovrić Merzel that contracts were concluded with two council members and that with Stjepan Karapetic, I will quote "to provide consulting services for the purpose of developing a professional analysis of the loans in which Sisak-Moslavina County participates." For this he was paid 20 thousand kuna net on two occasions from the county budget, i.e. 31 thousand kuna gross. It is interesting that then a councilman, a pensioner who retired with medium professional training, never provided professional consulting services for his working life. Of course, as a councilman, we are not presented with any material written by Councilman Consul Karapetić, let alone a professional consultant's lab because it probably doesn't exist. Also interesting is the case of another councilman, Dr Hasim Smlatic, who is for the needs of the county, I will quote what he was doing: "he has been doing tasks related to the health care system and criteria and criteria for financing associations in the area of healthcare in Sisak-Moslavina County". Whatever that means, that's what 20 thousand kunas were paid out of the county budget net, or over 27 thousand kuna gross. On the question of journalists, Dr Hashim Smlatic replied that he was replacing the front page during his illness. Really interesting. Example of abuse of use of official vehicles. In July 2005, the head office of Sisak-Moslavina County adopted a Regulation on the use of official vehicles which were prescribed the use of official vehicles. Under that vehicle rule, the mayor, the deputies and the officers and the sub-spouses may use the vehicle. Article 6 of the Regulation states that the mayor may, by special decision, identify the other users of those vehicles. Article 7 states that vehicles are used to carry out official operations and travel within and outside the county. Official vehicles cannot be used for private purposes. ... Chapterwork during the past term... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the official vehicle of Sisak-Moslavina County began to be used almost from the start to the end of the term of office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, so almost four years. It would be interesting to determine on which official route he was on for nearly four years and how much it cost Sisak-Moslavina County, or taxpayers. Similarly in this term with Councilman Zeljko Sold, who is one of the privileged council members who use an official vehicle, and what coincidences is the ruling coalition of Sisak-Moslavina County. It is also interesting to use the team in Sisak-Moslavina County. For example, in several accounts that have gone public, we see that under the county budget, domestic supplies such as bath salts, deep-freeze bags, eggs, expensive alcoholic beverages and wine are also purchased, and even penalties for wrong parking are paid. It is also an interesting example of how the visit of a senior state official can be used and used by a diplomat to inflate accounts. During the end of this year, this recession year, i.e. last recession year, was visited by Nature Park Lonjsko polje. In this account they ate and drank you won't believe it when I read you home cold steaks 150 servings per 50 kn, cheese and cream 50 per 20 kn, dyed at 100 servings per 70 kn, goulash snorkeling 100 servings per 45 kn, stewing 50 servings per 45 kn, zucchini stew 20 servings per 40 kn, boilers. What? Itd. etc. Since I'm running out of time, I'm just going to read the total amount. It is 51,485.00, second account at 23,498.00 kn and third account at 12,908,00 kn. Therefore, you can see how this can also be misused. Of course, one cannot believe that a senior state official accompanied by several diplomats could consume all that. But it would be interesting to see what's in the background of that and that. It is certainly necessary to mention the county event here, Sofia's spa ball in Topusko, which was particularly luxurious in autumn of 2008. The participants wore cryoline and fraks, held as a donor event for the scholarship of gifted children. But to this day, I have not received an answer as a councilman on the financing of this event, and neither has one child received a scholarship. It is important to stress that damage has been done to both the spa and the patients, because the internal Olympic pool has been empty for a week to dance in it, and then to fill it for a week. Guess who was the director of the event? Young Merzel, future mayor's husband. By the way, his Merzel film company was paid 79,178,00 kn for which the services were not indicated during 2008. In order to achieve the public work of Sisak-Moslavina County has completed contracts with radio and TV stations, so the local TV NET from Kutina in 2008 received over 300000 kn from the county budget, and during the first 9 months of 2009, more than 270.000,00 kuna. Radio Quininas from Sisak, one of the co-owners and directors of Mladen Merzel, the mayor's husband in 2008 received more than 230.000,00 kn and in the first 9 months of 2009...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47793	Thank you very much. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47794	Here if I can finish. I think it's a clear message that I wanted to say, which is that, in any case, we should also deal with corruption at local level. So if Mr. Bajic hears these words of mine and has the need to launch that action I would recommend that he bear the working name Ceca because that name has a lot of symbolism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47795	The difference is only in numbers, and the principles are the same. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47796	I suggest that the item of the agenda is called contributions to the biography of the leaders of Sisak-Moslavina County, then it would not be injured Article 214(2). Rules of Procedure. However, when Mr. Shantek wants to write a biography, it will certainly be a good contribution. But then add that purchase of two HNS councilors so that you have a majority in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47797	Article 214 states paragraph 2 that the speaker has not received the approval of the chairman and has received. He's talking about the subject, only the numbers are different. Just like the rest of you said. We have further injuries to the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47798	Mr. President, you have injured Article 210 by leading this session. Rules of Procedure. Article 210. I will read to you paragraph 2 which says, "If the speaker gets away from the topic of the agenda, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda." Mr. Shantek used his discussion for 10 minutes not to discuss the subject of the agenda, which is today the appointment of a state lawyer and his work, but Mrs. Marina Lovric as Sisak-Moslavina County. I warn you of this failure today, therefore, that you did not warn the speaker, because the different criteria that you are carrying out in this Chamber towards representatives of the ruling party and MPs of the opposition simply lead to riots in this Chamber every time. Yesterday because of that, so because of your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, you interrupted Mr. Stazic from saying things on behalf of the SDP club. This morning, you also took away Mr Milanovic as SDP president because you felt he did not speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So I'm wondering why you didn't respond to the same thing now and with the same criterion to Agent Shantek who didn't say a single word about a state's attorney, but was talking about the character and work of the Sisak-Moslavina County. Once again, Mr. Baby, you are the most responsible for order here in the hall, you are the most responsible for the consistent implementation of this Rules of Procedure, and unfortunately you do not, and that is why we constantly have problems in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47799	Thank you. Mrs. Opacic, why did you take the right to give me a lesson? What article of the Rules of Procedure did you call for? Except you misapplyed Article 210. The Rules of Procedure and they called for him. Mrs. Opačić, I reminded you yesterday that when the president makes any decision for any reason that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I read Article 209 and asked you to contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system if I have violated the Rules of Procedure. You didn't talk because you were wrong. So today Mr. Shantek was talking about things you've been talking about all day, except your qualifications are harder and your numbers are bigger than Mr. Shantek talked about. Mr. Shantek spoke in accordance with all the discussions that were held today in this House and please, Mrs. Opačić, you are not invited to call me to order, there is a procedure for how this is done, and if I have made any decision that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, please choose to contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and not here to give me lessons. There's a word. Did you get the word? You'll spoil Mr. Linic if you behave like that, a complexion that's very good for you for your years. Get down on the ground, get down, get down a little. A representative of the SDP who has repeated and confessed 100 times to the public what he says and what he is talking about in the Croatian Parliament. He accused himself. So you'll talk to me. Here's the man talking all the time, and he didn't get the word, you see. ... No, I won't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I invite you to call the Rules of Procedure. If you're right, go ahead. But you know you're wrong, which is why you won't apply to the Rules of Procedure. That's the one. So, like you've never been hit by a coombura, it's not gonna happen this time, because it's very wet. Mrs. Mariana Petir, has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47800	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I think that colleague Shantek was quite right to stand up for himself through his argument that no one should be untouchable when we talk about the work of a state attorney. And in this case he mentioned, of course, the example of the already well-known Sisak-Moslavina County, Mrs. Marine Lovrić, which I was talking about here when the debate on the work of the State's Attorney's Office was held in 2008 and which we reported to USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office and of course we are asking that we act on this application, because the time in which we live is a difficult time, the time of crisis and recession. As responsible people, and I think that's where we all agree on the opposition and the ruling, you should be careful how taxpayers' money is spent. That is why it is completely incomprehensible and unreasonable, which is why the leaders of the coalition partners, Mrs Lovric, are rewarded in Sisak-Moslavina County. This will, of course, cost the Sisak-Moslavina County 6 million kuna over 4 years, which is big money. I also see that here are some colleagues who are in the Committee for Conflict of Interest, so I wonder if they have checked whether they are standing on the pages of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests of the Mayor's Salaries 14 and a half thousand kuna, when she told us as councillors that her salary is 19 thousand and 100 and something small kuna, and we know that her salary is actually much, much higher. And in that sense, it's about abuse of duty. I believe that both the state attorney and all the authorities will investigate this case of Sisak-Moslavina County and will finally tell us who is right here, whether the mayor who falsely declares her salary and from it in 4 years acquired an asset worth 5.3 million kuna or a people who warns of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47801	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47802	Of course, Mrs. Pettir, you've got what I'm about to say. I said it at first, and now I'm going to say it again, given that some of my colleagues believe me from the SDP or didn't want to hear or talk, so they didn't hear me. I mentioned that there was one segment left that is most visible, which is very, in which way corruption is very perceived, which is precisely local and regional self-government. I also cited several examples, and I could do much more if I had time for corrupt behavior in the local, or regional self - government unit. Since I'm a councilman in the county council, normally I know the best of the problems and the area, and I've been giving these examples. And exactly what my colleagues were saying all the time, I'm just what they were saying at the state level simply transferred to the local level and said there's also this need to intervene and please intervene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47803	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47804	Thank you, Mr. President. Part of the replica, in fact, the answer to Mr Shantek's presentation has already been made by Mariana Pettir, without me being familiar with the facts she said. So, I ask Mr Shantek, given this knowledge which he has made so precise to the kuna or lime, and since there are elements of the criminal offence of the abuse of duty, etc., or has tried to file a criminal complaint to the State's attorney. And since the minister is here and has heard this all said as a public word, then I wonder exactly what Mrs. Pettir said that she, or HSS, or who has already filed a criminal complaint, so I don't know that I can stand two, whether there is a need for that or not if these are elements of the same act. Someone here also mentioned buying a mandate in Sisak-Moslavina County. Well, that's not unusual. Namely, the purchase of two HNS mandates is the same as in Slavonski Brod where two mandates were purchased, two SDP council members in the county and Brod-Posavina. So it's kind of a common practice with us, so HDZ. Namely, when the gentleman, I still wanted to say when Mr. Shantek spoke about not only the elements and crimes and the work for DORH and USKOK at the state level, but also at regional or local level, then let's not just look at Sisak-Moslavina County. There's a ship's criminal policy in every county. I say drawer by what Mr. Bauk said stand by criminal policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47805	Mr. Shantek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47806	Here's a thank you to Mr. Grubisic for giving me the opportunity to respond. I consider myself a serious man sitting here in the Parliament and I wouldn't allow myself to say something unargumented here in Parliament. This is all I've been saying today are the figures that come from my eternal questions that I received as an official answer in Sisak-Moslavina County. It was also published in the newspaper, which you can see. Here is just one example of the newspaper since 20 August of this year, the title is "the prize for the transition to another political camp, membership in five committees", the subtitled "HSU councilman at the session of the Sisak-Moslavina County Assembly changed with his vote and immediately put in favour of the SDP" So, I'm just saying the facts. I never meant to say that crime, or corrupt behavior, is possible only in Sisak-Moslavina County. I think, and for the third time here, I'm saying that there are both in other units and local and regional self-government. And in that very sense, I was going to call and I invited Mr. Bajic to intervene and that just as the Index action was, it was some action that would clean up this situation on local, regional, or regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47807	Thank you. And we have one correction. Mr. Igor Dragovan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47808	I thank the presidency. How did we say which board goes first? Replica? Then they're all replicas, and then they're corrections, and then they're like that. All right, all right, I'm just saying. No, I would like to correct Mr. Shantek in that today's debate on the appointment of the state's chief attorney, not the Sisak-Moslavina County, so his debate is totally full. And as for all these things you are instructed, I call you, your responsibility is as a citizen, and besides that of a parliamentary representative to all the illegalities, irregularities you know how to report. Absolutely to report it, because if you don't, you'll be responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47809	Thank you. Since you asked me the question by which criteria I give my word this time, Mrs. Mariana Petir was the first to report for the replica, and then these two replicas were. If you were the first to apply for a correction of an incorrect quote, you'd be the first, and that's one of these principles that I'm applying here. Here, that's an explanation. Let's move on, it's Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47810	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, I would like to try to return to the topic of today's agenda in my debate. On what is our joint task here, which is to discuss the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to continue its third term, Mr Mladen Bajic. We have seen in today's debate that many things can be said and that, unfortunately, some parliamentary representatives, too, are being given a flat-rate assessment and evaluation, conclusions are being made that we should leave to the authorities to whom the Croatian public has entrusted trust, which is the Croatian judiciary, the Croatian police, Croatian courts. If we do this, then we don't need all these institutions in the state. In one day, we should also make investigative demands, make judgments and save a lot more money, and the Croatian public might have a different picture of us politicians and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I would say in my debate that the State's Attorney's Office is in these 2 mandates of Mr. Mladen Bajic and that report we were here two months ago. in the Croatian Parliament we adopted, and this is a document that we supported the report on the work of state lawyers where we are familiar with both the problems in work and the difficulties in staff, as well as the intentions of the State's attorney to take all necessary steps to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia at this time of accession and the accession of our country to the EU. I think it's a task of the State's Attorney's office as well as of us representatives and competent institutions to primarily protect the interests of our country, our citizens and all those who expect us to do something about this system. What would be the message here today from the Assembly of the Croatian Parliament if we gave no confidence to Mr. Bajic and the State's Attorney's Office in our work? I think we would send a completely wrong and wrong message to both the Croatian public and the international public, the EU and all those institutions that are expected from the Croatian government, by our parliamentary representatives of the Croatian Parliament, by the Croatian judiciary. There are difficulties in every business, there are difficulties in every work, but if we do not trust the system, if the system that needs to operate on independence, in the laws that we have voted here in the Croatian Parliament, if we do not trust what we expect the authorities to do, then we are all wrong. I believe that the State's Attorney's Office, as I have seen here in the report on the work of the state's attorneys, has made major shifts over the past few years, has made major shifts in the urgency of making judgments which, among other things, are in line with some EU standards, and in that legislative framework that we have set here in the Croatian Parliament, developed so that the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary can function in its right direction. I think it's a good time to leave the judiciary, leave the authorities to do their job. To give confidence to people with expertise and knowledge to implement the positive legal regulations and laws of the Republic of Croatia which we have voted here in the Parliament. Let us not judge before the order of any criminal proceedings, nor any of the proceedings before the courts. Not to point falsely at people who have not yet been convicted or found guilty of what they are suspected of and simply leave that system from which we as advocates seek perfection to finish their work. We can't ask for positive shifts, we can't ask for excellence, we can't ask for expertise if we handle this problem ourselves and these jobs. First of all, we need to turn to the future, we need to turn to the trust of our citizens. We can fight today, throw stones on this side, we can correct the wrong drins, at this point we can't even correct them, but first of all we need to give our citizens trust. You don't have to scare the public or the State's Attorney's office. There's no need for citizens to be intimidated by the police. These are bodies that primarily protect the interests of both the citizens and the Republic of Croatia. If we fear our police, our judiciary and the State's Attorney's office, then we must be afraid of both the lives and the work we live and work in. If we work by the law, if we enforce our laws, if we work in the interests of the citizens and the people of this country, we have nothing to fear. And let the bodies we chose and trusted do their job. This is a fundamental task for both representatives of both the government and the judiciary and the State's Attorney's Office and the police. There should be no fear in this country. These benches aren't supposed to make anyone afraid of being scared today when he comes home. Did he say something wrong? Did he do something wrong? We are all responsible for our work, for the tasks we have received and for the trust we have received from our citizens. This confidence will justify our moves in the Croatian Parliament, and HDZ together with Prime Minister Kosor has shown how much in these 6 months. can be made in a difficult situation for our country. In a crisis of identity and some mistrust of our citizens, which we have justified by one of our professional, concrete moves. Before our government is a new task, it is our country's EU entry. If we are to begin the stumbling block here in the Croatian Parliament, if we will not allow our prime minister and our government, our institutions to do their job, then we have mistaken our profession. We don't have to be surprised that our citizens don't trust MPs, they don't trust politics. We pushed that mistrust ourselves. If we condemn people today without having arguments if we from these benches are to call the attorney's office to act immediately, if we from these benches pay our citizens to go out on the street, that we can no longer appear, that we can no longer speak to credibility, then we are in the wrong direction, I suggest we go where we belong and that is our European Union. To give our justice, to our attorney's office, to give our government a breath to bring our citizens safe steps where our country has always been. In my debate, I support the State's attorney in the work, support the Government of the Republic of Croatia, support the Croatian judiciary, support both the economy and the entire system. If there is no harmony of this system, if we will only be dealing with police, investigations and similar procedures, if we do not look at the economy, Croatian tourism, our children in our schools in our colleges, then we have nothing to look for. Let's team up, gentlemen, let's get our country where it belongs. I call on all of us to support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to support Mr. Bajic's choice here at the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47811	Thank you very much. We have replicas, first is Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47812	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I would like to share your optimism, and I would like it to be as you have said, but from these discussions today it is very clear that both sides on the left and on the right, or the other side, are clearly pointing the finger at each other that the state's attorney is subject to political influences. And how then when we see that she's six years back, seven years hasn't been done as much as Cain said, like six months ago, to share that optimism. And everything that has not been processed and that surfaces wherever it is buried and where huge damage to crime and corruption has not been processed, has not been sanctioned and damages have been done to the state of Croatia, which is why citizens think a little differently, not optimistically, but rather apatheticly, and I would like them to think differently, as you said. Unfortunately, I don't think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47813	Answer Mr. Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47814	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Grubisic, I said that optimism should first of all take the confidence out of this High House, the honorable Croatian Parliament. If there is no trust from this House where we make laws, where we make regulations and where we ask for the implementation of Croatian laws, then we should not be surprised by the mistrust of citizens, some noise of the street and some objections that it is now coming to the surface, I think it is not true. You can match time and moment so to create a false picture of everything, you can also distort a positive opinion to be negative, but if there's no optimism, there's no security, there's no will to work, there's no will to learn, there's no trust in the whole system. And that's where the entire state system falls and the whole state body falls. That's what I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47815	Thank you. And the replica of Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47816	Here, dear fellow Salapic, you said you should let the team do their job because they're doing it well at the moment, and for all the work and government and prime minister and finally and Mr. Bajic and Mr. Cvitan got applause and that's fine, and it took a while. Until the Podravka investigation came up with some kind of resort or something. Now all of a sudden it's not okay, or it's hard, slow fellow don't rush. Then suddenly the objection is why it goes back and forth, until it's our prime minister's apartment, then it can go backwards as long as it takes. At the same time, the SDP president buys an apartment and probably gives false information that it's much younger than it is because otherwise he couldn't get an apartment under these conditions, so he needs to check the data a little bit. Maybe the birth certificate was a new excerpt there or extract from the queen born because such conditions don't give a bank to anyone, it needed... for a override, so he will sell the apartment and similar that he sells, or does not sell, so very interesting stories, and now we wonder why the SDP is denying Bajic's support. Well, he normally touched them, and when you touch them, then you're done, so don't tell the truth, even though the investigative committee proved it, then we're wrong the soul, because only we can be guilty, then there'll be applause for everyone, but about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47817	If you're done, I'd keep going. Here's your answer, Mr. Joseph.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47818	We'll have to wait for Mr. President, they're a little restless. Representative Markovinović is right as soon as he upsets the passions in the assembly, I would just repeat what I said, we passed law on the judicial academy, we passed laws that expect professionalism, excellence in doing business and I repeat when we let the system do its job from the judiciary, police, judiciary, to us representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian state will have a future for the European Union and for all of us who expect results here, and as soon as something is said to a colleague, Markovanovic, who turns someone on immediately to a disturbance in the assembly. So you were right in your replica I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47819	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Ivo Grbic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47820	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Given that Mr. Mladen Bajić soon stands out in the act of the chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, the government has initiated the procedure for the appointment of the chief state attorney, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the State's Attorney, and is proposing that Mr. Mladen Bajic be re-appointed as the chief state attorney who has received support from the previous opinion of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Personally, I believe that Mr Mladen Bajic's work as chief state attorney can and should be seen through the work of the Croatian State's Attorney's Office as a whole. Every year, the state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia submits an annual report to the Croatian Parliament on the work of state lawyers, and for the past 8 years the Croatian Parliament has accepted the reports in question. It is indisputable that significant developments in the organisational and humane terms are made to European standards in the past term of office of the attorney general. Furthermore, there has been an update in the work of national lawyers at the level of the Member States of the European Union. The fact is that a system of persecution of perpetrators of crime has been improved, that significant results have been achieved in the fight against corruption and organised crime and in the actions of war crimes committed. Surely these results have been contributed by new regulations, in particular the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Police Powers and the establishment of the Jumping Vertical. It does not surprise me, therefore, that in 2009, the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia had 87% of the convictions. It is certainly for the development of international cooperation between the state's attorneys. It is particularly important that the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia has a representative in "Eurojust" a body whose primary purpose is to effectively detect and prosecute the perpetrators of organised crime, and to encourage the cooperation of Member States' authorities in the field of investigation and prosecution. The following opinion is that the State Attorney's Office, led by Mr. Mladen Bajic as chief state attorney, can respond to the challenge of this time and effectively carry out the tasks and tasks of persecuting the perpetrators of criminal offences as well as taking legal actions to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia in civil and administrative matters. I therefore support the proposal for a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the appointment of Mr Mladen Bajic as chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47821	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47822	The SDP will therefore not accept Mr Mladen Bajic as the new state's attorney. And we have brought this to this House many times, both in front of this House and in public. Bajic, we say, could not free himself from the influence of the ruling political structure in his work so far. He avoided coping with large-scale crime whose limbs came to the very top of the government. Small fish, few perpetrators of large-scale criminal corruption, were persecuted, but employers, brains of such operations remained protected and secure. On what do we base our claims? Are they like this one mere objection or do they have a basis in reality? Dear Minister Simunovic made a public statement that was untouchable and thus told one truth that was generally known. Minister Simonovic has not said anything revolutionary and nothing unknown, but he has honestly said in view of the function he performs in the government he has fairly expressed a notorious truth. And Mr. Seks, estimating the work of Mladen Bajic, said that he was subject to autocensorship, which means that he did not initiate criminal proceedings not because someone asked him not to move them, but because he instinctively felt that it would not be opportune, so that it would not be directed, that it would not be very clever for him. Mr. Bajic thus showed an envious instinct for self-preservation, for survival in a function he has been acting for eight years. And that is humanly understandable, but it is politically unacceptable that a man who is responsible for the work of a state's attorney is subject to the political pressure of the ruling party. We have been warning Mr. Bajic for two years that this is wrong. We warn him for two years in a way that we refuse to accept his report for two years, all hoping for two years that he will change his behavior, that he will show more courage and more determination to do his job as expected of him, not from him, but from any state attorney. Two years, unfortunately, for nothing. We expected him to show that courage he showed as a military prosecutor when he went to pursue the perpetrator of war crimes in Lora at a time when it wasn't easy, at a time when it took personal courage because it made him lose his head and someone didn't even ask where you went because he couldn't ask. The two-year-old Mr. Bajic's chance, in our deep conviction, did not justify it. But here's proof that it wouldn't turn out to be that way, one of our general impressions. "Brodosplit" lasts how long? Five, six years. Minister Vukelic, chairman of the Supervisory Board, has no solution. The Camioni affair, this Assembly was also involved in the Special Investigation Commission. It took the state's attorney four years to go to trial. Although the president of the Republic in the run-up of the election campaign warned of the "Caminia" affair, which then was returned by Minister Roncevic that it was a tragic play by one of the presidential candidates. Mr. Mladen Bajic said in this assembly when I respected him that he was not obliged to go to the market in Zapresic and listen to what Mesic said there. Well, maybe he wasn't there at the market in Zapresic, he was already obliged to go, but I guess one of his, as many as 800, as many deputy state attorneys as there are, so I guess one of them followed the presidential election for God's sake, so I guess someone was reading the newspaper, so he could find out that the president of the Republic was talking about the "Kamioni" affair. It's not true that Bajic didn't know that he didn't get a voice. Bajic did not want to and did not want to because Roncevic served as interior minister. And when did he want to? When Roncevic was removed, only then. We are deeply convinced that no matter what his name or anyone who suggested him should behave like this. War crimes. Yes, Mr. Brammertz praises Bajic because he did indeed do a lot in catching Gotovina. When did it start to catch Cash? Only when the Prime Minister then ordered Sanader to ask him to do so because at that moment he needed it because of good European relations, only then. You're in charge. Well, please, don't you think the stories about what Glavas was doing in Osijek haven't been known since the war was on. Well, that's what they wrote in the paper. Well, there were some indications. Well, at least there were reasons for a reasonable suspicion of being sent to the police to do the reconnaissance. So if the police come back and say it, whether it's something or not, there's nothing there. But Bajic didn't do it. And when did he do that? When Glavas was removed from HDZ. That was the moment when the state's attorney started acting on war crimes. Here, my colleague Pupovac is talking about the Roknic family today, a war crime. There is no effect Bajic on the matter even though Pupovac says I warned him, I wrote him a letter. I'm sorry there aren't any Pupovec colleagues here to tell him when Bajic will work. If the prime minister asks him to do so and tells me I need it for coalition relations with the SDSS, give it a little research. So, Bajic, how's Bajic doing? The government has been telling him for eight years that Mladen takes it out of the drawer or Mladen put it in a drawer and Mladen cooks it in a drawer or takes it out of the drawer already according to how it is required of him. Prime Minister Kosor is surprised by the miracle, she did not know about the scale of the political corruption. She sat next to Prime Minister Sanader's knee for six years, her closest associate. No one heard anything today, no one from that government saw anything, no one knows anything. I don't know, maybe they forgot to let her know they were stealing. But the whole of Croatia knew, the whole of Croatia. Every writer, anyone who reads the newspaper, who watches the world around him had an analytical knowledge of what was happening in this country. The only ones who didn't know were Prime Minister Kosor and the state's attorney. They found out, you know when? When Sanader left. They didn't see it until then. Look, a state lawyer who sees so late because he sees too late, because he refuses to watch what everyone sees and refuses to act on it, can't be a state lawyer for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47823	We have two replicas. First Boro Grubisic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47824	Mr. Stazic, you are wonderful about this process of mounted and politically motivated Branimir Glavas, but don't forget that six years ago and for four years, your colleague was the minister of justice. And then there was no trial against Branimir Glavas because there was no evidence as they say there is today, but I wouldn't want to go into court and the court's views, it's not mine to not be here again like all day it actually just confirms that there is no trio of government in the Republic of Croatia. From this, it turns out that we have actually adopted this as something normal, that politics has completely entered this segment, and it should be a completely independent, completely independent system. Well, it all comes from what you and HDZ are saying. Yeah, it has an impact on at least this part of what you say about criminal policies. And secondly, you were also talking about a statement about car censorship. That's good you said but I might have modified your position. It's a conducting car censorship and actually today in this debate it's also a car recognition of impotence. Someone who knows he's been conducting censorship, someone who I admits to actually being six years old was not to say "unpowerful," I think we should talk about it, about resignations, and it's a car resignation, not to argue here whether we choose him or not. It's a matter again of the person, personality, character of the one who's proposed here for the state's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47825	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47826	You say the Glavasu process is politically mounted. It's your right to think so. I know that we have an inadmissible verdict, a very high-level indemnity verdict, a high prison sentence in a very serious criminal case, a war crime case. You're saying that at a time when the SDP was in power and when he had his minister of justice that nothing was done in that case, but I must warn you that the minister of justice and the ministry is not a work of persecution. Therefore, it is pointless to call the then minister or current minister. Was there a policy impact on the Glavas case? Oh, yeah, it was pretty good. The first thing was that while Glavas was a visionary as Sanader called him then Bajic didn't think to question Glavas' role in the war, he didn't think of it. And if he had thought about it, most of the HDZ would not have proposed him for a new mandate, and there was a policy impact on the Glavas case when the majority of the HDZ refused to remove his immunity to the detention and allowed the fugitive who was legally convicted, illegally convicted. Made it possible to escape.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47827	We have another replica. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47828	Comrade Stazic, in your speech several times you brought the question of the state's attorney's actions in the context of political dependence. Of course, it will be and cannot be different as long as the state's attorney is elected in the way he chooses, so as long as the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament determines who will be the state's attorney, and then they will tie their political destiny or professional fate in the affairs of the state's attorney to the fate of the political majority, that is exactly how it will be for us. The Republic of Croatia is not the only country in the world that has a state lawyer, but is one of those states that elects its lawyer in parliament. However, there are other models, there are other ways to choose a state lawyer. Some even states have a direct choice, so in the elections themselves, citizens decide who will actually do the work of a state attorney. It seems to me that as long as we don't move away from this model, that is, as long as we don't change it, the role of a state attorney will be politically resilient, and in our case, I know that a joke has been going around for years that says that the state's attorney is one of the few state officials who walks without any protection and for which reason, because he didn't object. And by default, he would have to blame himself on a lot of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47829	Answer, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47830	I fully agree with you that this may not be the best model of choosing a state attorney and that it is perfectly logical that if someone is elected by the parliamentary majority, and the Government suggests that it will be loyal to that parliamentary majority and to that government, because it would now go against that government that proposes it. Well, he won't suggest it another time, so he's not crazy about doing something like that. But I think for the job of a state attorney you have to be crazy enough not to think about who suggested you, not to mind whether you're going to suggest again, that you have moral integrity, that you go after crimes and criminals no matter who they are, who they are, who protects them and what function they're in. And look, we choose the Parliament and some other bodies, here we choose the ministers, we confirm the ministers, so it doesn't bother Minister Shimonovic at all to tell the truth about how untouchable he was. There are simply people of integrity, there are people who don't have exactly that strong integrity. And you know, in the end, they fall to the fact that in this House they must be defended by Markovanovic. Worse humiliation and insult could not be experienced.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47831	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with our work. It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47832	Dear President, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. As far as the appointment of Mr Mladen Bajic as the third term in office of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, I do not see at all why so much is being lamented here today, and I will say so here for several important reasons. I hold the first reason that during the last eight years of each year, the Croatian Parliament discussed the Annual report on the work of the State Attorney's Office, which means the work of Mr. Bajic's chief state attorney. I must say that all these reports the Croatian Parliament has accepted unreservedly, and this means that by doing so, the Croatian Parliament has just supported the chief state attorney in his work by recognising him in this way high professional qualities which are not really questionable, given that the man has worked in the justice system for 35 years, which, if read recently and the media, colleagues from the profession, means those colleagues who work with him, work out of the profession and publicly demonstrate through full support for the third term. So far, the work of the State Attorney's Office led by Mr Bajic, normally in collaboration with the USKOK and the Ministry of Interior, has given the citizens of this Croatia confidence in the effective functioning of the justice system of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the unfettered fight against corruption and organised crime in Croatia. This trust is the result of quality work to detect corruption crime through numerous actions. We've heard a lot about these actions here today and I must remind you that exactly these actions have been launched during this government, this government, so not at all before. I don't know how to pick them up again, so it's "Maestro" for sure, it was at the top of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which manages state property worth about 7 billion kuna, action "Bankomat", Croatian Post Office, HAC etc., Podravka. Now that we've touched some of the actions that apply to colleagues who are left-handed, but they're on our right-hand side, then there are problems and then the simple work of the attorney general is being challenged. They don't even respect the fact that the State's Attorney's Office won 491 convictions last year. In order to get 491 convictions, what should be preceded? It's a lot of investigative work and evidence to just get a conviction. I mean, it's not hard to charge, it's the easiest charge, but to get a verdict when you charge, you have to have, and it's really an extremely big job and work to prove to someone and to collect enough evidence. And because of that, regardless of what is being disputed today, as far as I've heard in earlier discussions, by the average share of the convictions, of 87% of what was in Croatia last year we belong somewhere in that European average, however much some question it here. But we must also not forget that after all this dedicated work and these results that are visible through the implementation of anti-corruption actions, I find it really untasteful that someone to the attorney general still has doubts about the subjection of any policy. On the contrary. I can't confirm that there have been political pressures, but even today certain pressures are coming from here from this assembly to the state's attorney. But media pressures certainly were. And that didn't decapitate Mr. Bajic's chief state attorney. It is understandable to me that the HDSSB, headed by Mr Branimir Glavas, opposes Mr Bajic's re-election. But it's really hard for me to understand why the SDP is against it? Individuals who raise the question of the earlier effectiveness of the State's Attorney's Office in the fight against corruption have obviously forgotten that last year's improved Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Police Authorities, and thus created assumptions for a better and more effective fight against corruption and crime. I'll remind you that this new law has also introduced a state-of-the-art investigation which, by then, was not in the law. No one defended such laws from being passed in 2002, 2003, even in 2001, which certainly opened a bigger space for the activities of the State's Attorney's Office. As the SDP is now trying to impose a thesis on the early lack of efficiency of the State's Attorney's Office, the same HDZ could ask a question about reasons why none of the authorities were processed from 2000 to 2003 when much has been whispered about, or even written in the media, and indicate that there would be work for the chief state attorney. But HDZ at the time supported the work and independence of the chief state attorney and had no idea that someone might be holding back some investigation that normal SDP didn't have in mind. In the end, it is a little absurd for SDP colleagues to fight the candidate man so warmly today whom they themselves have proposed and whose qualities have been accommodating with numerous arguments. That's right, we recently came here yesterday and we had a chance to hear about it with Minister Drinker. The man was also proposed by the SDP in the HRT Council. Now that man's no good to them, he's no good, just like the attorney general is now not good and bad. In fact, it's a question of the inconsistency of the SDP in my own opinion, and I think it's a problem that you have to solve with yourself, not here to bother all of us, so I would say the Croatian public. As for me personally, I support the appointment of Mr. Bajic's chief state attorney, and I would like to continue to work and strengthen the foundations of the state's attorney's autonomy, as well as constantly grinding the edge of anti-corruption activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47833	Thank you. We have the correction of Vice President Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47834	It is incorrect that Mr. Kunst is quoted as saying that criminal persecution for some incriminating acts as he mentioned "Maestro", namely Croatian Post Office, HAC did not occur at the time of Racan's government, but at the time of the HDZ government. In fact, it is true that the prosecution for these crimes could not have occurred at the time of Racan’s government, since there was no thieving in those places at the time of Racan’s government. It is true that these crimes occurred at the time of the HDZ government and that only at the time of that Government was the State's Attorney's Office and could it have initiated these proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47835	Thank you. We also have replicas. First is Mr. Krono Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47836	Well, here's my colleague Kunst, now let me start a little bit as my colleagues already know these guys apologized very well, and that's all true. But it should be said that, in fact, the success other than the justice system normally involved here, the USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office belongs to our citizens as well. There is little to be commended for, for there will be new cases with them. But it's not that "stef juri takes a swing so he sends something against him right now" but our citizens know a lot of it. I'm sorry they haven't been more zealous before, because Mr. Bajic's been doing this job for a long time, and as a small Ivica, I imagine his room as if with a lot of closets. Now it's every year. He opened in 2004, so he opened up for a few more years, and he's opening this last one, and then we're back a little bit. But in 2003 she remained unopened. 2003 needs to be opened. I think that closet is the biggest, and that's the year of crime and of playing all possible regulations, failed. ... But again, I say we're incorrigible, we're optimistic, and we know it's going to be our turn. [[You can't hear it.]] As far as I know in HH, they've already picked up the paperwork there, so all the talk about the bending trains, the ticket sales, and the like have their own background. So, I'm just asking my colleagues for patience. They're very impatient! Let them wait a minute. As far as I know in designing it's a luxury extension of the Remetinco upgrade, so when it's done, they'll come in for a relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47837	Answer Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47838	Well, thank you very much. Comrade Markovinović, you have well noticed that the merits of the citizens are certainly there. Clearly, citizens are very important in detecting, detecting at the end of corruption and crime, etc. And it is certainly not an accident that all these actions launched by anti-corruption have also introduced citizens' confidence in the justice system of the Republic of Croatia. But surely, the fact is that some of these actions may not have been able to run before, but many of the actions could have been launched that I already said today, so I would not want to read them again here and also written in public during that period in 2000, 2003. And in the end, it's amazing if it wasn't so good for that state attorney, the attorney general, then how for 8 years he's actually accepted a report on work, and that's normal for him who's headed one such state's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47839	Thank you. We have a replica further, Mr. Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47840	Comrade Kunst, you said you didn't understand why the SDP was so opposed. I'm already in my debate partially touched that. Opposing the choice of Mladen Bajic can be interpreted in a certain way and interpreted as a kind of pressure that if it does not work exactly as it does, it means it is not good. So you can read out of this one pressure on him to do exactly what they'd like him to do. Hence, it can also read the political influence of someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47841	Answer, Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47842	Well, I'm sure my colleague Roshin had allowed himself to fall under one or another political influence, or to be a doll at the end of the day when it suits whom it suits, then most likely today would not be so much debate about him at all. And logically, then, this perception about all these anti-corruption actions in Croatia would not be the case with citizens as it is today. And you've noticed that well. And that's why I said that today's debate right here is about a political pressure, because it is not doubtful that he will not be appointed Secretary of State, it is clear, but this debate shows one political pressure on him for future fellows who threaten to know what he is waiting for if one day they are in a position to decide his fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47843	Thank you. And Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47844	You told your colleague that no one was defending certain laws. First, the Law on State's Attorney's Office was adopted, in which the Attorney's Office was joined with the State's Attorney's Office. Then a whole new Penal Code was passed. You didn't, HDZ didn't vote for the law because it found a modern incrimination of economic crime, it extended the deadlines for economic crime for 40 years, you didn't vote for the law. Then the USKOK Law was passed, HDZ did not vote in favour of the law. New, amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act have been passed, which have been prepared to ease this bypass, and a radical procedure of what happened last year, unfortunately. In 2002, I formed a working group as a minister. Since 2002, you can see when this new CAP was adopted in 2009, and was due to be adopted in 2004. Several state's attorney's offices have been passed, all together with courts, that is, new courts are open, 12 therefore new judicial bodies are open, unfortunately they are now being closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47845	Answer, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47846	Well, here's my colleague Ingrid, actually, you said well, they passed laws, so you counted them. Surely these laws were passed during your term of office while you were a minister and were of quality, most likely they wouldn't have to be then passed new laws or would not have to be corrected by those laws. But you cannot in any way dispute one fact that this new law introduced a state-of-the-art investigation which in any case gave greater space to the activities of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia in its activities, which can be confirmed by the most likely minister here who is present today. So in any case, the quality of these laws was such that it could have been more courageous to move into all these actions that are anti-corruption characters. Unfortunately, during your era, it wasn't that, and I don't know why. I know you've formed a working group, and so on, but it hasn't moved any further or any quality done in terms of criminal and corruption detection.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47847	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47848	... Mr. President. So here's after almost a full-time debate about whether or not we should support the state's attorney, I'm going to start my own one sentence, what's well started should and continue. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Well, apparently, dear colleagues, it's been well started in the work of the State's Attorney's Office. What is often present in the public is that the State's Attorney's Office needs to discover, accuse and judge in the same day, especially in these acts of economic crime and corruption, I think it's impossible. But fighting corruption is the central and most important task of this government, and that sentence that is so often mentioned by the Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, no one is untouchable, must primarily be the leader of all of us representatives in the Croatian Parliament, because we are representatives of our citizens. And that's why the State's Attorney's Office joined the judiciary in fighting both corruption and organised crime. Not only with the other bodies, I'd say assisted, but also with a state audit. But the state's attorney can't run a full-time investigation if there's only doubt. There's got to be evidence for that. And we find evidence among all, and among our citizens who report, report and investigate the media, and above all by investigating some companies. Surely, there is room for better work in the State's Attorney's Office, because 61 municipal and 20 county attorneys have very often slowness in solving cases and objects they hold in the drawer, so I hope colleagues Markovanovic will start these drawers, that indeed a drawer in 2003, and the Excelsior case in Dubrovnik, both INA and Pliva will come to order. That we'll hear about it in this House too. The fact that the law on criminal proceedings and the law on police powers already mentioned has created a good condition for the fight against corruption and economic crime, the fight against organised crime. Surely the work of the State's Attorney's Office is not ideal, but the state's attorney should also act on what I said was being published by both the media and us representatives and citizens. I would often say big affairs forgets about those local but not less important in the fight against abuse of positions and the purposeful spending of taxpayers' funds. The fact that we recently pulled Mršić's case from Koprivnica, I hope that this case of sale of state land in Mljet will be drawn soon, which our colleague from the Dubrovnik-Neretva County Mr Matušić spoke of in the replicas. But I have to, and I come from another county that was here today, so I'm going to mention again the case of Sisak-Moslavina County and Mayor Lovric, and I'm going to tell my colleagues we reported the case. And spending 120,000 kuna for one day on the team, citizens are wondering why and why? We are becoming increasingly aware that she is buying silence and loyalty at the expense of the citizens. Here is the title from the newspaper: "Vesna Škare-Ozbolt received a job of 60,000 kuna without competition" at the same time the county president of DC Mrs Krznarić got a job in the development agency, became a member of the county assembly, or council in this term and imagine one of the 13 advisers of our mayor. So these are all facts that say that political corruption should also be addressed by the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary is increasingly present in local self-government units. We have to deal with them, our citizens expect it from us. I repeat, we are the people's representatives. Also another case that is very evident in our county is that council members of the County Assembly imagine making work contracts for some occasional and temporary jobs for which as councilors of our colleagues do not get answers as to what they were doing. So Mr. Karapetric supervised and instructed some of the elements of lending in the county, and Mr. Hasin-Smlatic imagine replacing as council head of health and social care while she was on sick leave. It's all in the paper, all answered by Mrs. Lovric himself. So it's not a lie. We have also warned the State Audit and we expect the State Audit, and we expect the State's Attorney to deal with these cases. Also one of the last ones. Donor of the county's campaign becomes a county employee. Shortly after the donation and local elections, the gentleman took a job in the administrative department of infrastructure and municipal affairs, but the same man himself testifies and says, "Well, I'm not doing these jobs, I'm working in the mayor's office." Here I also ask Mr Jovanovic, I am sorry that he is not here, he is leading a very important council in the fight against corruption, to get into the problem of his party colleague, Mrs Lovric. Because we believe, as well as the Committee for Conflict of Interest, that 350 thousand kunas given under the advertising and impotence contract in the media, are those companies that co-owned Mrs Lovric's wife in some way conflict of interest. This is just a small part of one story, we could do it here, and I believe my colleague Shantek listed more, so I won't repeat myself about what's going on at the local level. We should therefore support the continued good work of the State's Attorney's Office, which is primarily the head of the State's Attorney's Office. But also on the trail of that sentence that no one is untouchable I call on a state attorney to really start dealing not just so-called. big, popular affairs, but also those of local importance that are very interesting to our citizens. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47849	Thank you. We have a few replicas. It's Mr. Gordan Maras first.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47850	Thank you very much to my colleague, Roksandić, although with most of your exposure I cannot agree. I'll agree with the initial part. You're rightfully wondering why the State's Attorney's Office isn't opening cases of the "Poravka affair" meeting in Verona, and I understand your indignation about why the State's Attorney's Office isn't investigating what the former prime minister was doing there for dinner and negotiating "Plive" sales. You're really justifiably bitter. You're just as bitter, I noticed from your debate, and about "INE." You're wondering why the State's Attorney's office isn't asking how the MOL got 100% management rights, and there's only 2% more "INE" shares? Indeed, since it was signed by the former Deputy Prime Minister for the HDZ Economy, still a member of the HDZ presidency, you are rightly asking and shouting for the State's Attorney's action. And about this story in Sisak-Moslavina County, I remember that you've been saying it a lot, talking about it, and now someone can trust you, and someone doesn't have to believe you. Nevertheless, citizens living in Sisak-Moslavina County know best, and there in the elections you who claimed about the mayor Lovric received half the votes she received. So still, people living in that county know best whether these facts are true or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47851	Thank you. Answer by Mrs Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47852	My colleague Maras, I know you won't agree with me. I was in the middle of something that even you in the SDP couldn't solve, Mrs. Lovric's case. Don't worry why I got fewer votes. All this stuff I've told you is happening behind the election of fellow Maras. And the citizens are just now discovering what Mrs. Lovric is doing, you know. Sometimes we can be as popular as an actress or doll at the end, but we can't be forever. He always comes on his own. And as for the fact that I'm calling for control of Pliva, the INA, so let's say once who sold the control package to these companies. Let's just say loud and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47853	Mr. Dragutin Lesar, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47854	In your discussion, you quoted a lot, and you could agree with most of it. Your party colleague who spoke before also mentioned the state-guilty investigation that you mentioned. But if something wasn't right, I wouldn't use my own attitude just to try to convince you because I didn't write it down, so I can't quote the statements of two party colleagues. First, Agent Roncevic, with him at the door of the Zagreb court, and I don't believe that they mounted it in his tone and the camera said about if I knew, I would never raise my hand for such a law on criminal proceedings that enables this kind of investigation by the state's attorney." The second, approximately certain statement is also a member of your party, Mr Polancec, who was vice-president of the government when these laws were sent to the Parliament, has publicly stated that it is a shameful situation in Croatia in which the state's attorneyship is initiating an investigation against him, and that he does not know why and why he is being charged with it, that the media know before him and that unfortunately, in Croatia, the state's attorney is in a more favourable position than the defence that should defend him. So, I didn't say it was visible and it was heard on one of our TVs. What now? So, the former minister, an MP, former Deputy Prime Minister, publicly criticised both legislative solutions and the work of Mr. Bajic's state lawyer. I'd really like to hear your attitude on those views.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47855	Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47856	Well, here you are, colleague Lesar, you have so carefully associated my exposure with Mr Polancec and Mr Rončević. Unfortunately, I am neither Mr. Polancec nor Mr. Roncevic, and I will not comment on their words. It doesn't have to be sad. We belong to the same foreigner, Lesar. But neither did counterpart Polancec know what was going on with his case, and the process of fellow Roncevic is in progress. And I wouldn't comment on them here. In my first sentence, my colleague Lesar said something that is not always a good perception of the public in the same day to accuse, conduct an investigation and condemn. And that's exactly what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47857	Thank you. We have further replica Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47858	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm hoping, as well as you colleagues, that really the state's attorney's office will deal with the specific cases you mentioned. You mentioned the privatisation of the Excelsior Hotel and the sale of land on Mljet. One more thing I'm happy about, which is that the privatisation robberies will allow them not to obsess over these crimes with new amendments to the Constitution, and then we'll be able to examine in detail what and how it was done when the Excelsior Hotel was privatized. I will only remind the public that despite opposition from the tourism minister at the time, the unfavorable offer has been declared by the one who would receive the Hotel Excelsior, and what later was going to happen will be determined in a concrete investigation. What I have and the data that I have received from some of the Privatisation Fund employees because I asked to see what kind of documents these are and what kind of contracts are, it's clear that there has been a serious violation of the law here. But let them determine the authorities. I also invite them to this opportunity to determine how the privatisation of the Excelsior Hotel went. I also invite them to determine everything that's been going on in the area of land sales in Mljet. But that's where the state's attorney's office reacted. First, it reacted on time, so it warned the municipality's chief that it should not sell the land, and later reacted in proceedings and judgments at all levels of the court they received all the proceedings and the state was registered owner of the land that the municipality sold to all happiness without success. But he's worried about the fact that today he's the president of the SDP or because he doesn't know the facts, which is bad when he's talking about a case or because he knows and then he cheats on the public. He says there's a well-intentioned SDP chief who allegedly wanted to sell the municipal land. So, that worries. It concerns public deception by the president of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47859	Thank you. Answer by Mrs Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47860	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Frane, I was just about to point out such problems in my debate. Apparently here we're discussing I said big problems, big problems are also at local level. And it's good to clear up the Excesior once and for all, like you said, and sell state land on Mljet. That's why I just pointed out in my debate by pulling a parallel between the two counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47861	Thank you. We have a line further, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47862	Well, here's a colleague of Ivanka's namely this mayor is a really interesting subject, but I have to say a little bit about political corruption. There's been a lot of talk today about political corruption. Here's an example. Mrs. Mayor's having a wedding party. The domain costs more than 200 thousand kuna. And now we're wondering who? For the president, the current president of the state of Stipe Mesic who comes there, he is a normal star. What does he get in return? You might have noticed that was before the local elections. There were no visits to Stipe Mesic in any part of Croatia that the mayor did not laugh over his back. So she took pictures over it. The subject of corruption. Further, normal political corruption to have enough. Let's say the longtime director of INA Dragicevic to also get the protection of the current president, hires his daughter according to her own statement in "Terms" Zagreb. What are "Therme" Zagreb? "Therme" Zagreb is a few wells next to the University hospital with warm water, so there is a chance to do so. It's been years, two, three years already. Last year we spent 2.5 million kunas and more. And if it hadn't been for the difference between the love between the former SDP member and the current SDPs, we wouldn't have found out. But INA could have,...had the top of the state's protection. And there's a whole series of things like that. Who lobbied a loan coma, who called who to get it, this, that. So we expect from the state's attorney's office not just a lot, but a miracle. And I hope that miracle happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47863	Answer by Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47864	So I'll answer to you in the replica of my colleague Markovanovic exactly as I started my presentation. What's well started should continue. So we need to continue all these investigations. I'll tell you. 18 times the President of the Republic was visiting Sisak-Moslavina County, I think the most times of all counties 20. I also listed directly some cases of political corruption on purpose to point out that this political corruption is important. I did not purposely mention Zagreb not to challenge again unnecessary debate over Zagreb. And we know ourselves, colleague Šolić often mentions it, and we know ourselves that the incasator is how she has been meaning to say it recently is known on which side and where is the incasator of all those things that are happening and these days in Zagreb, on the side of the SDP. We can't give up now people who were party members and now, as for them, we don't know what they were doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47865	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47866	Thank you, Mr. President. So already in several presentations of HDZ MPs, the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County is the main topic. And if she's been doing everything that the MPs are doing here, and if there's no investigation about it, and as far as we know, there's something and then Mr. Bajic couldn't get your support because he's not doing his job. When you're talking about Excelsior, then I'll tell you that in 2001, a colleague of Shuica launched an initiative here to establish an investigative commission. The investigation committee was not formed, but the Assembly finally concluded and, personally, as the chairman of the Committee on Economy at the time, provided all the documentation that Mrs Shuica had collected to the State Attorney's Office. Even if it isn't Mr. Bajic then did and that's probably why he doesn't need to be trusted for the third term. But what I was worried about in your presentation of colleague Roksandić is what you said, now I'm going to quote you: "We pulled the case of Mršić, soon perhaps the case of land sale.", so you may still draw a case and it will not be Mr. Bajic and his will but the political will of your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47867	Mrs. Rocksandic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47868	Thank you. Comrade Zgrebec, I come from Sisak-Moslavina County. I never want to say anything in my discussions by heart and worry about another area for which I do not have adequate confirmation. I'm taking my job seriously, counselor, and that's why I'm pulling out like I'm saying those things that I have information about. I will support Mr. Bajic because I believe, and we reported somewhere six months ago all of these cases, that in his investigation he will answer us whether there are any corrupt acts or no. We don't expect the investigation to end in two or three months, but it will end. That's why I said we got away with it. Today in the debate, don't get out of my context, my debate with this sentence, "We're out." We all mentioned the Mršić case today. He's in the paper. Well, he's been filling up newspaper columns for a week. So is the land on Mljet. Let's not close our eyes now that it's unknown. As far as the request for an investigative committee is concerned, it is clear who the majority of the Parliament was then and why I should be able to ask you colleagues why you did not allow the establishment of an investigative committee. It's a question of your own. I ask you why you did not seek and allow the establishment of an investigative committee in the Croatian Parliament to be said here as we have so far had some committees. That's the answer to your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47869	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47870	Let me continue this story a little while ago because obviously we talk all the time. It's about corruption, by the way. I'm told by one of our entrepreneurs. Well, for the last ten, fifteen years, I've had a little work to do without having to give something to someone, put it in my head, and what I know. And now I'm saying, well say it specifically, write it down, here I'll sign whatever it takes if he's afraid of a name and a last name we'll send. Normally, people are afraid because it's equally the ones who give bribes. But what I was going to say was interesting. And the man says to me, but my son at home says, "Dad, you talk all the time against corruption. And what have you done that corruption is no more?" Nothing. He was letting him survive, probably, he got some kind of job to get paid on time and stuff. So, he was giving some money, and unfortunately, it's just him, there's a lot of it. Therefore, it would be good for everyone, regardless of why we all react to the Commission's decision on conflict of interest, where there was again today a story about Mrs. Mayor. We're not gonna talk about her all the time, but it's gonna be louder Thursday. So, yes, and anonymous, so let people say here I can't get a job because he's asking me for money and stuff, or I don't know anything else to put an end to it once. Because neither the state's attorney nor the judiciary will be able to do all the work without the cooperation of all of us. So, if the action went well and that's the main reason why I support Mr. Bajic, if it went well it would be really sad to stop now but I'd understand here's a colleague and a colleague from the SDP that we had some candidate of ours so if they said this one's good, this one's not good, but right now I don't think it would be good, so regardless of who the name is, it doesn't matter, but once and for all it has to go at the rate that's been going on lately. And how did it go? It started with a few big things. It started from Podravka, and this Podravka actually worked out a lot more than everyone expected. In fact, it wasn't only one, two, three, five members of the administration that the Podravka extended from here to Pirovac, we saw it. So, from interventions from Pantovich to smuggling with a resort in Pirovac. Now it's no good. Now Bajic is no longer good because he should have stopped, cut ties to the SDP and cut ties to Pantovack, then he would have been good. It is best that of all the members of the Supervisory Board, he asked how many of you from HDZ, how many of you are not, and you from HDZ to Remetinec, you stayed free until further notice. Then it would be applause, then Bajic would be good. But there wasn't a man asking, so then he caught the left and right, and now the problem is why he's touching our members. Well, we're not like that. Here, Mr. Jovanovic persistently abuses the position of the president of the Committee for Corruption, so he insists on speaking on behalf of the party everywhere in all the shows. I can understand it, he's a party man, but then he'll say I'm saying it as a member of the SDP, not as president of a body like this that we've all raised our hands for him, finally let a man make his contribution to this whole thing. And in that he forgets and we didn't really know who his political mentor was, we saw it later, now I understand why he's skipping a lot of issues, why he skips everything that's going on in Rijeka, from the pool to the next, why... when all that is happening with Europetroll, and that will soon be discussed by the State's Attorney's office, all the benefits that have been, who has benefited from it, the Rijeka Eurotrol by the way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When everyone else collapsed, when everyone else received the price of oil and oil derivatives at retail prices, except for Europetroll. What was the consequence? Failed at tens of pumps, failed. Who bought it? Europetrol. Because they had to have a margin they gave, you know they had to survive people and failed, the Eurotrol you could come to me there, I'll show you two like that, so so the same. Clearly, where owners claim behind it was a colleague, Slavko Linic. I convinced them people impossible to own, they said. I said it's impossible, it's my colleague here, there's no way it's happening like that. So, there are a number of things that need to be examined, for all of us, not just for HDZ, but for SDP. Finally, we need to clear up what happened to those unfortunate fire tanks. And I repeat for the hundredth time and I'll say it again, I'm happy the firefighters got Mercedes' fire tanks, though. Mark's brand, obviously the least broken and the rest. But why, then, in the same way, after the government's cancellation of the tender at its closed session in 2003, it makes a decision to purchase 210 fire tankers of the Mercedes type which, I guarantee, were not the cheapest. So, a case like an egg similar to a truck, just multiple higher, multiple higher price. Nothing to anyone. Now the army needs the cheapest, so it doesn't matter. And now, I resent and tell the press, I've told them countless times that you can ask them a question where $10 million went missing when 10 million were paid more expensive tanks than the court will now determine, witches. We even went to the craftsmen in Slavonski Brod because these Zagrebians didn't want to do it obviously, they didn't want to write any false reports and so forth. But all right, what's there is, let's prove the truth as soon as we can. ... I'm sorry, I forgot he was a colleague from the Slavon ship, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So there's a whole series of things to be questioned. If the government was making decisions needlessly, so this secret session and so on, I wonder why our impeccable friends from the SDP didn't go to a public tender for the announced trains. 34m euros, euros without a public tender. And that of those eight compositions three rides, here and there that lands, jumps out and on, because normally the railroad on which they drive is not adequate. In that railway, we know, Yugoslavia did not invest because it was some kind of Croatian railway, a figure track, it was going to the track, it was only refurbishing. And now buy luxury trains for no railroad. I'm interested in motive, not for people to drive better than because there was probably some fat commission when they could get those trains here for inadequate, suburban trains for long distances away and then we're surprised by accidents. What about these card machines, one 4 million euros or how much has gone, is bought twice as much as the conductor has, so they take the little kids home for fun, because there were few computers at the time, and then let the kids play with it. 4 million euros went here, today they're not in use. It's clear again without a public competition. So, countless things in 2003 without a public competition. We're an interesting country. So one year we don't have to have any public tender, and next year here's a merger need a public tender so that the rights of the manufacturer won't happen to be injured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47871	Thank you. We have several replicas and Mr. Arsen Bauk has moved the correction to the replica, so please choose a replica. ... No, no, Maras, Maras. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47872	I can repeat, but the mouse drives this government, not me. You just keep going, or the way a mouse drives a train, don't drive a mouse. Mr Markovanovic cited several reasons why he himself should not support his colleague, Bajic, in his Vehementary Exhibition. You constantly claim in your discussions on these affairs from 7, 8 years ago that no one has ever proven or initiated the procedure, but you have the data and you publicly present them, so the Attorney General sees you. It's strange that the attorney's office didn't initiate any procedure, and it's strange that you in this situation support this attorney's office that didn't initiate the procedure, and you claim to have the information. Now it means asking a question or you're not telling the truth, which I'm more inclined to believe or lawyering in these cases protects some of those members of the SDP you mention. So I believe it's a lie, not that the attorney's office didn't do a good job in that case. Because if it isn't, why do you support it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47873	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Krono Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47874	I know you'd be extremely happy if it were a lie, but unfortunately it's not. And whoever's to blame, it's our fault, HDZ's to blame. We're guilty because we didn't establish a commission, we're guilty because we didn't report it in time, but we're making up for it, we're trying. But I'm asking for patience, so it can't all be sudden. All in good time. Those who have done this will come in turn, but slowly, slowly, nothing goes so fast. It was done in '46, and now we're a little bit in other times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47875	Mrs. Neda Klaric, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47876	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here, fellow Markovanovic, in affirmation of zero tolerance access to corruption, you rightly point out that an improvement in the protection of persons who, in good faith and in the general interest, report corruption, advocate a proactive approach and systematic fight against the authorities in the fight against all forms of crime with a special focus on corruption. I am convinced that this government and I share your opinion, headed by Prime Minister Mrs Kosor, will be determined to implement this segment, which is definitely and included in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2009-2011 programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47877	Thank you. Mr. Markovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47878	Well, dear colleagues, you're not the only one who said this government led with Prime Minister Kosor would do it. Until the other day, that's what a lot of people said. And what happened? Suddenly the investigation started, just before I said outside HDZ or HDZ personnel, and then there was panic. Then it's no longer a good prime minister, is it? So we'll be waiting for some apartment that is and hundreds of thousands has been assigned in a similar way. Then all of a sudden it went against Bajic, against everyone. So, what's going on? That's exactly what I was saying at the beginning. If you don't touch me, then you deal with corruption as much as you want. But as soon as you touch me, I'm the only one working. Gentlemen, here's the SDP to explain it in more detail, I believe. I'm glad there's no fellow Trainers. But I hear he mentioned me. Yeah? That he mentioned there that Bajic was the greatest minus I was for him. I think he's the biggest plus he's against him.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47879	Mrs. Mariana Petir also replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47880	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Markovanovic, you actually encouraged me to do this replica because you mentioned a series of projects that the State's Attorney's office actually needs to deal with. I'm sure the eyes of the public are against the state's attorney because they're high expectations. Of course, through discussions it could be heard completely justified that a lot of this can be done by example, or by proper conduct in accordance with the law. No one here has actually mentioned an absurd case in the debate today, and this is a matter of stealing Warsaw Street, a Hoto group that actually got a permit for one project, and another project is doing. And then the second project was declared public interest so that it could be implemented in the middle of the city of Zagreb in the Flower Square, which actually shows that everything was done in accordance with the law, but someone paid it well. I also think that these are the same situations that should be under the watchful eye of the state's attorney he should deal with, because it is primarily necessary to protect the public interest of the citizens of the City of Zagreb. But it also needs to be kept up to the urban oatmeals in that cultural core, which is not the case today. So here, with all the projects you've run, I'm running for this project. So, a project aimed at returning Warsaw to its citizens, which unfortunately is no longer theirs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47881	Answer Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47882	Well, in any case, it should be examined with a note that the investor has all the papers and that it will be very difficult to stop anything. But as far as I know from Warsaw Street, there's a 20-foot pass. So, from Gundulic, and we know that it is much longer, that this street will not be destroyed. I think she can, finally remember European markets. On every European square you have a significant entrance to the metro, one, two entrances that may be slightly smaller than this which will be the entrance to this public garage. But I'm sure I'd like to take a look at what conditions it's come under. I remember well, I must say I remember going to the movies Zagreb was there. Kino Zagreb, right? But no matter how good the cinema was in there, but the yard was a disaster. Not just that yard. I was and come on in student days still here and there and the tenant etc. I remember the courtyards of Zagreb. It's awesome and horrible for real. By revitalising these courtyards and revitalising not only the centre, but also a little periphery Zagreb will get a lot, but it needs a terrible amount of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47883	Thank you. And the replica of Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47884	Thank you, Mr. President. So, colleague Markovanovic, you have rightly warned about all these affairs you mentioned since the sale of public procurement, etc. But you didn't mention one of the most important affairs regarding the sale of the INA control package. So the INA control package was sold the way it was sold that can be described in various ways. But let's let the State's Attorney's Department examine how it was sold and find out in fact that two people who were leaders at the time of the coalition said they had said, one said no money was received for management rights, and the other said that money was received. So now the question is which of these two people is right and who got the money for management rights on INA's sold shares and how it was sold. Secondly, you didn't mention an affair selling the THT control package. The same way was done, non-transparently without the knowledge of the public, of course and without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament. How was social property sold? How was the treasure sold, and what was sold? What actually sold to THT? What's sold out? You have further accurately compared the sale, or purchase of trucks for which our colleague is now in court with the purchase of railways, or fire trucks. 210 fire trucks are purchased in the same way. A public tender has been annulled and a more financially unfavourable offer has been selected for the Republic of Croatia. Who's going to answer for that? Apparently, it was some government meeting where it was decided. But the procedure is completely identical to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47885	Okay. Mr. Markovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47886	Here I'm not so sure that 25% plus one share of management rights has been sold. It was like this one more elegant way. As far as I know, there were eight people, five from Croatia and three from Hungary. Here's a colleague to correct me who dealt there 25%, and for each relevant decision it took six votes. So, five of ours, three Hungarians. For all the more important decisions, it took six votes. If those aren't management rights sold, then I don't know what it is. But what is interesting is still very, very interesting that the sale of 25% plus one part of the INA has not been decided by either the Government or the Croatian Parliament. So you have to wonder who it was in the interest of the Hungarians to make an emergency cove with everything they've got. In my opinion, it's definitely treason and this country if that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47887	Thank you. And we have one correction. That's Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47888	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct the incorrect allegations by my colleague Markovanovic, who spoke about the role of National Council President in the fight against corruption, Mr Jovanovic, that he did not know his... misusing something in that context by going public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this allegation is incorrect, but I would like to remind you, therefore, that this parliamentary majority in this term has changed even the Law on the Commission's conflict of interest because Mr Leko, who was the chairman of the commission, allegedly, was too public. Fortunately, the work of the Croatian government gives so much space to come public on these topics that you can lift all the commissions and put all your people and you will of course hear that story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47889	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to the distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So let me get back to the agenda, so today we're talking about choosing the Attorney General, so let me just start by saying a few sentences about the procedure itself. As regards the procedure for the appointment of the main state lawyer of course of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament shall appoint a meeting of four years on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior opinion of the competent board of the Croatian Parliament, so the Committee for Justice. I would like to point out this in the introduction because, among other things, in a crowd or these strong objections in today's debates, we have had the opportunity to hear and challenge the very procedure or the way that it is by the Constitution and the law, that is one of the reasons and that model therefore we should change why, in this context or that context, we should today express some dissatisfaction in terms of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, although of course it absolutely doesn't matter. There are different models. This is one or which we have of the accepted models, and it certainly and quite certainly therefore creates this framework in the best possible way, so in terms of choosing the chief state attorney that he can do his job, of course, and other things in the best possible way. What do I want to say? Therefore, the Croatian Parliament is based on these constitutional provisions, the legislative provisions therefore have the possibility of being in the final line and obligations to the State's Attorney-General from its constitutional position of a continuous, comprehensive and detailed monitoring of the work of the State's attorneys, and thus also the main state's attorney and the debate and decision-making of the annual reports on the work of the State's attorneys. In the framework of these annual reports, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, so each year, gives the Parliament not only information on the work of state attorneys in the area of criminal, civil or administrative law, but also information relating to the legal issue of certain areas, so as to review the organisations and status of human beings, as well as proposals for improving the work of state attorneys. Why do I mention this and why do I think this was important to emphasize? Because the analysis of these very discussions and those conclusions that we have recently made on the work of the state's attorneys, therefore both the work and responsibility of the State's Attorney General can indeed be taken into account on two essential elements. The first of them is to achieve results in the work and achieve a degree of urgency is at an envious level, therefore more than satisfactory level, and a normative framework, or a legal framework defining in the new conditions the work of state attorneys also enables additional quality in the work and whether in the field of the persecution of committed crimes or perpetrators of criminal offences, whether in the field of protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. The second or second element which I particularly point out in relation to the last report or the current state in terms of the application of regulations to the work of the State's Attorney's Office, I think it is very important to mention it, and as it is forgotten and deliberately forgotten and puts it in second plan in the debates on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, it is precisely that the Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has passed laws that have largely entered into force last calendar year and which allow for its quality solutions new access to the work or new way of work of the State's attorneys, would not now want to enter into details here, I think that we have heard a lot of it, we have spoken, and also very important when we talk about so-called. I am speaking in that section of the Criminal Procedure Act, which came into force 1.7 last year. But not just that regulation. At the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the RES, so the Ministry of Justice has yet to adopt a number of important regulations that created this environment and normative preconditions, this tool without which there is no successful fight against corruption, organised crime. I'll only mention some, because it seems very important to me to emphasize. It is also the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, and the amended Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, hence the amended law. Also the new Law on Police Affairs and Powers. It is these laws, i.e. their entry into force that enable and continue the conduct of state lawyers in a better way, which has resulted in the launch of a large number of criminal proceedings in the past period of time, which our public has of course been informed and whose echo, therefore, is being heard, given the actors and the severity of any criminal offences committed, follows with great interest, both in ourselves and in the international public. Proclaiming principles or precisely the principle that no one is above the law, that there are no untouchables, in the sense of committing crimes and their responsibilities comes precisely in this context to the fullest extent, as well as the possibility of rejecting all those accusations that the state institutions, hence the State's Attorney's Office, are working under any political pressures. And we've had a lot of opportunities today to hear about political pressures. They can be from a wide variety of sides, I think in the debates here on this right hand side has focused only on the possibility of a kind of political pressure. However, there are various political pressures from different offices, from different offices that no one is talking about today, and I don't know what reason they're not talking about. Because I repeat political pressure is quite a fluid notion, but if we go to analyse certain procedural crimes, let's be honest, so let's face it for a certain, where this intense political pressure came from to process some things, not to measure things, to stick to the principle that everyone is responsible for the crime committed, that everyone in the justice system should do their job, but so much for some concrete political, possibly political, pressure. So, what I would like to emphasise is that the political will in terms of these processes is unquestionable, and perhaps in the best possible way is summed up in support of the Government, not only the government's declarative support to the State's Attorney's office, but because of all these things that I've been talking about, this support or support in the first place, not only the declarative creation of normative preconditions and organisational and budgetary and all other preconditions that the State's Attorney may respond to all these challenges that are not small and that the State's Attorney is increasingly working on detecting the perpetrator of criminal offences. Especially in terms of these new possibilities, based on the new regulations I was talking about. Furthermore, all of this should be added to something that we may forget about in these discussions, which is also the result of reports that we have here on our benches, which is an update in the work of state attorneys which is more than satisfactory. For example, the total number of pending applications is less than one-third of the three-month inflow of new criminal offences. So we are really coming to the conclusion that the State Attorney's Office as an institution functions in a satisfactory way and in this sense absolute support. And in conclusion, any changes or improvisation that would at this time be related to the change and way of managing the State's attorney, or to the change of leaders in the State's attorney's office, not only not to be justified but would certainly slow down, or at least slow down the work of the State's Attorney's Office and contribute to certain situations which I believe are certainly not acceptable. The leaders of the State's Attorney's Office deserve our support. Just as it is summed up, and it is summarised in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in the previous opinion of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47891	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable Representative Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47892	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So, on the basis of its constitutional and legal powers, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed a decision to appoint Mladen Bajic as the main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia. The reasons set out in the reasons for the proposed decision were that Mladen Bajic, among other things, demonstrated high professional qualities in his current behaviour as the attorney general, and thus made a major contribution to the successful work of the State's attorney in the exercise of the law of the prescribed tasks. With this finding, then, as stated in the explanation, of course I absolutely agree. First of all, for reasons why the success of the work can be best seen from the report on the work that the State's Attorney's Office submits to the Croatian Assembly every year for the previous year. In the past 2 term, Mr. Bajic has been the chief state attorney, so since 2002, in parliamentary debates he has always been evaluated by high grades. All these years, the Croatian Parliament has generally unanimously accepted them except for the 2007 and 2008 Report, which was accepted by most of the votes, with opposition from some of the clubs of representatives, or individual representatives. And that is why I believe that, in view of this, over a number of years of repeated support for the work of the state's attorneys, there is no legitimate reason not to support Chief State Attorney Mladen Bajic again for this duty. Because he's exactly like the leader of the DORH to a large extent, if not to the greatest, responsible for the results achieved. The results of the state's attorney's offices are first and foremost evident through high awareness in the work. That's how criminal departments work, for example. The total number of pending applications is significantly less than one-third of the quarterly inflow of new applications. Also, the percentage of convictions against adults is almost 87% last year. The last one was 86.2%. Therefore, this urgency and success in the work is undoubtedly the result of the training, construction and organisation of the State's Attorney's system in which, in my opinion, the role of the attorney general is crucial. During the monthly follow-up of statistical data, the State Attorney's Office, therefore at the state level, the DORH conducts a constant insight into the burden, urgency and quality of work of state attorneys of lower levels. The attention paid to the selection and education of employees, particularly young state lawyers and deputies, is of particular importance in the context of the role of state attorneys in relation to the new legal framework and the application of the EU acquis. It is also important to inform state lawyers where, for a number of years, reports on the work of state attorneys have been listed as one of the priorities given the need to create a single database that is necessary again for even better results in the area of corruption and organised crime, terrorism and economic crime. For these purposes, it is necessary to provide sufficient resources that are unfortunately never needed, but it is important to stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making extraordinary efforts there. It is certainly commendable that the State Attorney's Office, thanks to its good international contacts and cooperation for the implementation of certain programmes, manages to find and secure funds outside the budget. When it comes to curbing corruption and organised crime, I believe that the results of the State's Attorney's Office, i.e. USKOK, from year to year, are getting better. It is important to stress that not only is the so-called procession. street corruption, which was a common observation in this assembly, but also corruption at medium and higher levels. Of course, these successes needed to create a legal framework with a strong political will and to provide material assumptions about the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, given the results of the work of the State Attorney's Office, above all, in the area of the fight against corruption and organised crime, which have been particularly concrete and visible lately, and not only to those who deal with this problem of corruption but also to the general public. And the results in the areas of criminal, civil and administrative law were largely not controversial. I believe that it would not be opportune to do human change solely for change or for some political reasons. That, I'm sure, would have been a bad message that would have a negative impact on the entire state's attorney's system, especially that personnel section. For this reason, I believe that this House would give clear, full and unambiguous support to the work of the DORH, county and municipal state attorneys, and especially the work of the USKOK, just by re-election of Mladen Bajic. It is important that employees of state's attorneys, so state's attorneys, deputies of state's attorneys, see that their work is appreciated and valued because it will be their best motivation for future better and better work. Of course, I will mention that neither the high grades Mr. Bajic received for his work as chief state attorney and received from Burxelles. And it would be a bad message if he hadn't been re-elected as the attorney general in these circumstances. Therefore, for these reasons, I will certainly support this proposal to re-name Mr. Mladen Bajic as the chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47893	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative, Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47894	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary. Here I am in a different tone than my predecessors. Today we are discussing the topic of whether or not this Parliament should entrust the third consecutive term to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia to the candidate Mr Mladen Bajic. And as already said in previous discussions and colleagues from my club, it's obvious that we won't support it. I think it would be hypocritical, because Mr. Bajic did not lead the Croatian State Attorney's Office a year ago or in July last year or two years ago. It has been there for almost eight years, in which we have only been in the last few months all praise him and declare him a great anti-corruption fighter in Croats and organised crime. Some of our high-ranking politicians who aren't in the assembly right now say they're justifying him to suffer from auto-censorship. Well, I congratulate Mr. Bajic because he seems to have recovered from that auto-censorship. And it seemed to be some miraculous healing from this pathology that often appears in the Croatian judiciary. You might have to light a candle in person to some saint who probably protects the world's top state attorneys, and we're asking them to auto-censor it in some other form or in the same form. Because no one can guarantee us that this syndrome will never show up again. We all know that we live in a country that is cramping crime and corruption. Today, no one has denied it, even the prime minister was recently surprised by the scales that crime and corruption proved to have reached in the Republic of Croatia. This reflects all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, this reflects their standard of living, their economy, education, health care, etc. to every sphere of our society. But this corruption didn't come from the sky, it didn't fall from Mars or some tsunami of corruption spilled into Croatia 1. Seven. In 2009, ever since the E.R. started state's attorney's actions saving our wish from that monster. This corruption has piled up, dumped, and camped for years. The years in which Mr. Bajic acted as a duty which he is now running for again. Mr. Bajic is now suddenly confident in the fight against all that in his eight years of office has been up to unprecedented proportions. If Mr. Bajic is no longer self-censoring in his business now, the political consequences of his indictments are not valid, only one question arises. Why did he do that before? And what is the moral weight of a person who is so important a job and is responsible for running under pressure looks like politics, because that's the one answer that our logic can find out about. Who's been holding up the corruption investigation? We want to hear the answer to this here in the Croatian Assembly of an institution that chooses a state's attorney. On whose orders did he have to do nothing before the state's attorney, and whose warrant now has to do everything he can? Don't we have reason to believe that some of the actions taken by the state's attorney's office can be interpreted as political accounting as necessary, depending on the political moment. It has been said here that some legal assumptions have changed, that the CAP has changed, and I guess now all the witnesses are rushing into the state's attorney's offices to testify, they've piled up like some kind of sale, everyone's giving statements, the state's attorney's investigation has made it easier for the state's attorney's office, which certainly stands. However, Mr Bajic did not in the last 7.5 element too much to change it, that the CAP should be changed. Therefore, I do not understand why he has not stepped down before, so now that the new conditions are, when the legal frameworks and regulations are created, let him now run for office. And the two mandates he has suffered so much under such poor legal conditions of the state's attorney's office. And I don't think the changes to the laws previously mentioned here have changed the perception of citizens. Citizens, I don't think they trust the state's attorney's office. Citizens have reason to believe that the state's attorney's office is often in the interest of politics. Mr. Bajic seems to be the most powerful person in Croatia today, as for his mandate, two presidents of the Republic, three prime ministers and four interior ministers have changed, and he remains a candidate for chief state attorney and will likely remain and remains the best candidate probably because he has the best references. And these are primarily that he is a top political meteorologist who, if necessary, suffers from autocensorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47895	Thank you. It's the honorary representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What we can safely claim without self-censorship is that Mr. Bajic will probably be the chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia for the next 4 years. Today, in a debate on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr Drmic said he was a good politician. I wouldn't agree with that. Mr. Bajic is a good lawyer and a bad politician. It is a bad politician because his actions failed to warn what a good politician should achieve, and a good politician should realize that there is no policy influence on the work of the state's attorney. For example, Mr. Glavas can also be described. Not only when the procedure was launched, but when the procedure was already launched, it seems to me in 2006 or the seventh year, Mr Bajic sent a request to the Assembly to remove immunity and determine detention against Mr Glavas. And at that time, to express myself characterically on Tuesday, Mr. Shakespeare claimed that Mr. Glavas could defend himself from freedom, and on Wednesday, Mr. Shakespeare claimed that Mr. Glavas could not defend himself. Legend has it that between Tuesday and Wednesday, Mr. Bajic called Prime Minister Sanader and threatened to obstruct the proceedings against Mr. Glavas and Mr. Sanader as legend says, I read it in the media, ordered Mr. Seks to change his mind and, of course, another mental pain of the current vice president of the Humiliation Parliament, etc. This could have been done in 2006 but could not have been done in 2008 because he probably no longer had the political power to do so. If Mr Bajic had reacted then as in 2006 he would have our vote not for this particular reason but it would have been an illustration if he still had no regard for the political connotations of his decisions. Unfortunately, that didn't happen then. All that happened in 2009 after Mr Sanader left is just an argument why we voted against the 2008 and 2007 reports because what happened in 2009 was supposed to happen in 2008 and 2007. Most of the debates of HDZ colleagues who talk about events from either 2003, 2002, I don't know or some of the things at local level with the SDP leaders of local self-government, of which, of course, everything should be investigated, let all be proven and let those who are guilty respond, those who are not unsuitable so as to remove and from them that they are possibly guilty. So there's probably some autocensorship here, so then what you're saying should actually be an argument not to grant a third term. In this country, the President of the Republic cannot behave for more than 10 years and here we will have a state attorney who will be 12 and maybe 16 years, who knows. It is never known whether this political marble will continue to prevail. What is therefore not good is that one legal uncertainty is being created among the citizens about whether one or another wind is going to blow at that time, so their responsibility will be determined or not determined. But it's not just a case in the State's Attorney's Office, and people work there, people who sin consciously or unconsciously, deliberately or unwittingly. We had a case in the judiciary where a judge was relieved of responsibility for conflict of interest even though she ruled in her husband's case. That's what Mr. Minister commented on in a way that I absolutely agree with, but in any case, it reduces confidence in the entire justice system. And then another part of that justice system is the police. We still haven't figured out why Mr. Faber was removed. That's not what he said, that's not what the minister said, that's not what anyone who might know and they were all commending on his account. In fact, when he was appointed, there was maltene light in the darkness, the only one that could save Croatia from crime, it was after the murder of Ivana Hodak. Therefore, there are many more things that have been overcome by a fog that is not clear to us and Mr Bajic has not made an effort with the consensual trust of all the political factors in Croatia that we have therefore with the power of that authority to try to clarify it at least a little. At no time did we find out who put political pressure on him, we could not find out who they were untouchable or why they were untouchable. My colleagues and colleagues, as it is quite certain that Mr. Bajic will be a state lawyer for the next four years, as it is quite clear that it is a very responsible and influential function in the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of the judicial but large part and political, as he has taken a lot of care of his PR as if he is a politician to us, in fact, only hope that he will behave his duty better than he has previously acted. Or should I try to sum it up in one sentence, if we don't already have a better one than Bajic that in at least the next four years we have a better Bajic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47897	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47898	Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm listening to this debate today, but now Mr. Bauk has prompted me to correct the incorrect allegations where he said politics had an impact on Mr. Bajic. I'm going to say that this quote is incorrect and I'm going to back it up with a personal example. One of your members of the SDP from Dubrovnik, who is today the president of the city council, has filed criminal charges against me as mayor of the city of Dubrovnik and the criminal application lasted, the procedure lasted about two years for the criminal application to be rejected on 15 June, so 15 days after the second round of elections. I haven't charged my soulaches. I haven't charged my political points. Anyway, I got the negative points. I would like to demonstrate to you that it is not true that the ruling policy, or work of Mr Bajic, is under the influence of the ruling policy. Also, the "Latinica" show on Croatian TV was just dealing with the case and the whole show was dedicated to the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47899	Thank you. Your time has run out, Your Honor. We have one replica of the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47900	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, noticed what is now clear to all in Croatia that politics had an impact on the State's Attorney's Office. So that even the position confirms that even the vice president of this house in interviews says that there was a part of it called autocensorships in that part of the criminal process. So, we shouldn't be running away from it if it's already a known fact and therefore I agree with you that the only thing we can hope for right now is that Bajic will no longer work that way and unfortunately things don't add up to it is that on the day of the press conference when Prime Minister Kosor kicks Sanader out of HDZ Bajic is going to a meeting for dinner at her home in the government. So, I mean, these are messages that aren't good, they're absolutely not good. They talk about the influence of the executive authority on the attorney's office and speak in some way as the whole debate comes down today in the Assembly to push Bajic, talking about how the prime minister will continue to have an impact on how the attorney's office will work. She's also talking about her apartment case, talking about the fact that in the answers to the current class, she's been raising affairs that the attorney's been opening in the past week or two. So, the attorney's giving her arguments, calling arguments and weapons for political struggle. That's definitely not good, and we hope it doesn't happen in the future. Unfortunately, these cases I was just talking about are not in favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47901	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47902	Thank you. Mr Maras this issue, therefore, of the influence of politics or of the day-to-day or party policy on the work of a state's attorney has been proven so many times already by some small examples, so I'm going to list just some. Mr. Glavas' verdict came first degree, so this applies to the entire judiciary, 15 days before the local elections. And what my colleague Shuica was saying is, in some ways, the same tactics, probably to you, but also to be taxed because it also took care of the date on which that criminal application was to be rejected. It went to you in damage, and I'm not saying that influence can be good or bad. The best influence of politics is to raise his hands and stay out of business, to forget the number of a state's attorney's cell phones. And the only thing I have is one dilemma, which is whether this ruling majority would have succeeded if it had changed state's attorney, would it have been a change for better or worse. I believe in worse, and this time we won't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47903	Thank you. It's next, Honourable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47904	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry that he's not in Mr. Andrija Hebrang's assembly right now because I'm going to say something that he has to say about this topic these days. In fact, he made it very clear and reasoned to state attorney Mladen Bajic's renounciation by saying, "There is no change in the team that plays well, and the DORH led by Bajic in recent months has shown a very good game." In fact, this is very hard to believe that one experienced politician can say this, because of a total of 8 years of mandate under the leadership of Mladen Bajic DORH has shown good play in recent months and that is enough reason for a new mandate. What about the remaining seven years of office? It's actually like you've been working since one year for two months and then you're asking whether you deserve to be restored to your labor contract. So in a country with a real value system, it certainly cannot, however, be done in Croatia. Whether several recent months of action could be compensated for years of inaction or just by inaction it seemed the most because it was the interest of politics. In the country, as I said, the perverse system of values makes sense that the state's attorney does not get praise for raising dust, but for collecting dust on the files, so for years the dust has been collected both by Bechtel and Brodosplit and Brezovica and military trucks and Krashograda and Hypo Bank, HEP, HZ, HAC, Glavas cases, Sunni Hvar and countless others. Almost every letter of the alphabet, we can count a few affairs. And it was this fact that he did not initiate criminal proceedings that assured the state's attorney that he actually had no natural enemies and that he could walk on a general wonder without physical protection in a country that had declared an open, exterminated war on corruption. True, these past months have indeed been spectacularly open and downtrending affairs. By charging former state officials with the vice-president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund until university professors tried to create the impression that corruption at a higher level is being processed. However, to the highest levels, he did not dare go. They remained untouchable. There's actually a state's attorney who showed not only that he's not a big game hunter, but that the hunter is a politically shot savage. Mladen Bajic became effective only after Prime Minister Sanader left. So much and nothing more about the state's attorney's independence. Ministers and justice and home affairs were replaced, police directors were called USKOK, judges spit, only Mladen Bajic stayed and lasted, and as he announced, it will last until 2020. How can it actually last and what makes him so confident? First, it can survive because it has learned that obedience is the beginning of every wisdom and second, it can survive in a country whose prime minister swears to fight corruption until the last breath, zero tolerance to corruption, and then protects a minister whose ministry has committed a crime of several billion kunas. But all of this is seen by Europe and regularly and repeatedly in the negotiating process respects a high level of corruption and, in fact, an unquality judiciary. How can you even talk about the success of the first state attorney's office if Croatia is perceived as one of the most corrupt countries in the world? Mostly because of corruption, I will say this in the end, Croatia is not yet in European society, but we are waiting in the waiting room in front of the European Union, with the waiting room waiting for the longest of all the countries already in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47905	Thank you. We've got one correction, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representative said that the state's attorney-general had only started opening affairs a few months ago, so she mentioned "Maestro", university professors, etc. That's absolutely incorrect. I read: Operation "Maestro" 13th February 2008, indicted on 9 April 2008, operation "Gruntovec", corruption in the land-booked department, operation "Five Stars" in July 2008, seized 17m euros in a drug trafficking process in 2007. So, it is also symptomatic that exactly that year when major actions begin, when a new legislative framework is started and in 2008 the SDP is voting against the report by the attorney general, when this report was a lot of good, real and statistical data.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47907	Thank you. It is up to individual debates, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Here we are, indeed, here on the left and on the right, listening to different examples that are happening in this truly strange state of ours, when, after all these crimes of honesty, to the state, to the people that are resulting in the disappearance of millions of kunas or euros, we are not going to talk about numbers. And really when I say a miracle that we from the state in the first place survive, that we work at all, that, neatly, we still share pensions, wages, etc. After all these robberies and billions and billions of kunas and euros that have disappeared and that selfish individuals have placed not in their pockets but on some island groups and islands outside our country. Such examples of corruption make it clear that there is a State's Attorney's Office. Someone here today mentioned a very successful American Elliot Ness. We also have examples of others in view of what our country is, we might be good at that Colombo or Mang. And he'd be good for us. Victor Lenac, Pliva, T-HT, fire trucks, Brodosplit, Sunny Hvar. Here we are for a month now, searching for the pigeons to scratch 20,000 tons of Slavonic wheat in Djakov in silos. And just like a box of matches, he's gone, and the whole of Slavonia knows where the wheat is. In the Vinkovci and a little further. Mr. Bajic as a state lawyer, as chief state attorney, has become the Croatian public person who is willing to serve, serve as my own to tell my employer. And since it's been over the past six years, I say when we compare six years and six months and its activity, then we see a drastic difference. Somehow, I'd compare it to a lake, a dam that's a little loose and water spills, and in that water, tiny fish, younger, slightly large, but octopus nowhere. Only when Mr. Bajic arrests the head of the octopus will he be credible. Only when he admits that he is actually the performer of the political process against Croatian General Branimir Glavas and when he admits who ordered it will he be credible. Today, at a pay phone in the House, the Prime Minister said that the state's chief attorney couldn't be anyone. That's right. Very true. But the attorney general can't be anyone, it can also mean that it can be a person who will continue to work in this way where politics actually has interference, has its fingers in the work of the judiciary, or the work of a state attorney. And we today, I say again in the debate, we see that this is exactly what was happening. And we're going over it like it's nothing, although it's very important that the government has its third, so the judiciary is completely independent of, completely independent of the other two authorities. But we're going over it and we kind of adopted it as if it's something that's perfectly normal. That is why these affairs are mentioned here with the blessing of the SDP, with the blessing of the HDZ, with the blessing of one or this from these different parties, so there are other parties that were here, which were coalition partners with these two largest parties that I would like to make a little cohabitation. And when we compare those amounts and those affairs somehow more and that push-up contest in today's debate, I don't know who else a man could blacken up and see who took it more. Yes, it is obvious that this way of proposing, this way of voting, the attorney general cannot be anyone. It's a very convenient finding. Are there journalists in our society, or some union officials, such as in Croatian Roads, who need to discover affairs, who need to discover crime and corruption, and then the one we would expect to be in progress? If it's not under way, then he started digging into the affairs I say nothing like mushrooms after the rain. Because of this and because of this dispute that is happening today in this debate, it seems to me that it would not be bad if the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament elects the attorney general, to make it a two-thirds majority. Now that's not the case. The attorney general also has his deputies, so if there are already certain arrangements in some other relationship between the parties to say which I have already listed here, there might be some consensus or at least some sort of agreement, and that would actually be the independence of the elected state attorneys, perhaps given that he was chosen by a two-thirds majority, so independence in work, determination in the detection of crime and corruption might be. So maybe those people would be more free. I don't know what he's like. I know what the system is. But how to achieve that there are no untouchables, and given the debate, it is evident that there are and will likely always be. Unfortunately, if the government were respected, if this third element in this, therefore the independent judiciary were indeed so independent then we would probably have the results of the past six, seven years that we can say were dry years for the work and for the successes of the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK, etc. They're strange formulas that were at the beginning of today's debate on autocensorship, then something or so on. A conducting autocensorship, and then about auto-recognition, impotence. When someone's a surgeon like me, he really likes surgery and likes to do it. When a lawyer is like a top state attorney, especially when a lawyer is in criminal law, he also likes to do it. So it will never be clear to me that regardless of the pressures on the side, regardless of the political pressures, someone says he couldn't work, that he was censored. Well, if you're gonna censor me, and I love it, I will and I know how to work, then I won't be in that place. No, it never occurred to anyone to say listen, I can't work and quit, if you're stopping me from doing what I'm supposed to do, I'm going to explain that I'm being restricted by him and I'm leaving. Despite what we're doing here, I don't mind the assembly majority pleading for Mr. Bajic, and despite these facts that happened the way I said it, besides saying the failures of six years of dry and six months of success, and now we're looking at these results and successes, it's also proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47909	Comrade Grubisic, take a look at the traffic lights.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47910	Here's just a sentence. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your warning. So here's the suggestion. Given what Mr. Drmic said as a representative of the HDSSB club, the HDSSB will not be up for the election, the proposed choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47911	Thank you. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today I have often mentioned a name for stealing, getting commissions, illegally selling from my colleagues very often I have been and staying in this hall, not just today, very often. At the same time, Mr. Bajic completed a good part of these processes and found that there are no charges. So man would expect me to at least support him then, when that's what protects me, although colleagues of HDZ believe that one of the biggest criminals is Slavko Linic. But no. I would like to make it very clear that I do not think that the government's proposal to appoint Mr. Bajic as state's attorney should be supported. I'll try and explain it. It's always a question of whether we have arguments or if we have no arguments. So in the argument used by the government of statistics, the statistics from Mr. Bajic's report are the strongest weapons. A large number of processed cases, a large number of successful trials in court. And one would say, according to such statistics as we have been following over the past few years, the really successful work of Mr. Bajic and the State's Attorney's Office. But obviously, many of us who know what more statistics are called, and statistics are very often the sum of false data, then we ask ourselves the question and what is the situation with crime, and the process of organised crime, corruption and bribery. Well, then we might also turn to some statistics and grades. The European Commission considers Croatia to have failed to process organised crime, bribes and corruption for several years to access justice negotiations. Europe therefore sees us as a country for which a transient and positive assessment cannot be given. But let's let it go and, I would say, the European Commission's assessment. What our citizens think is really about corruption, bribery, large fish, processing. Also, their score is negative. Which means these are some strange statistical phenomena, when we listen, we read Mr. Bajic's report, everything is wonderful and wonderful, great percentages, great successes, and at the same time when we want to hear the right assessment of the state and how the relationship of certain bodies responsible for the processing and persecution of illegality is, we see, unfortunately, that our country does not get a passing grade. Therefore, it is evident that we cannot be satisfied with the work of the State's Attorney's Office, we cannot be satisfied with the state's attorney himself. In the reports we processed in 2008 and 2009, we set ourselves on two different sides in this assembly. The SDP club that warned that we could not be satisfied with the situation, that the reports that we receive do not speak about what is happening in Croatia, how much is the contribution of the lawyership in that part, and that we felt that we simply could not passively observe such phenomena, the statistics that we must be satisfied with, and in fact, the dissatisfaction of the world, Europe, the citizens, and the dissatisfaction with the state we have. These were two positions in the Croatian Parliament. Did we, as the Croatian Parliament, contribute to raising our activity in the fight against such negative phenomena? Well, we didn't. We didn't. In the Croatian Parliament, we turned to statistics, most of them decided that statistics were enough to raise their hands and that it would be us in the Croatian Parliament that supported the nelados against corruption and crime. Yeah, we're in the Parliament. Do we feel that responsibility? Let's not say it's all the government's fault. We were supposed to contribute something here, at least when it comes to the state's attorney's report. No, that's not what we did. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament, regardless of which the minority could not accept such reports, tried to warn that we too had to contribute, but the Croatian Parliament did not fight corruption in previous years. And we also carry the same burden of responsibility as the Government. We carry a burden of responsibility. Are we to blame for Croatia's reputation? Well, I'm sure we are. It is a negative reputation, restricting access to EU negotiations. And of course important changes occur in the last six months, important changes. Now we're also asking ourselves, statistically, why did such phenomena that were reportedly present at the state's attorney not find their place in the previous report? Why hasn't it tried in some way to fight for this reputation of Croatia, not to keep getting pucks, to lose citizens' trust? We just didn't want to, we blindly wanted to disable quality work. In other words, the Croatian Parliament has pressured the state's attorney not to move things that are not welcome. So he doesn't run things that he can talk about those untouchables. Yes, and in the Croatian Parliament we sent him our messages through discussions about his report, through discussions where we did not want to see what was happening in Croatian society. And now perhaps personally, I have heard a series of commendations about Mr. Bajic's quality work. I will personally discuss one subject and give my assessment to which I believe he showed no quality and that he has just shown what political pressure means, which is "Brodosplit". As the police did not want to work, Mr. Bajic let some of the paper go public from his office. Part of the paper he released in public and then the "Brodosplit affair" was opened. Since the police didn't want to work, he started the process himself and under pressure, especially Europe had to go on charges. Those who were the strongest witnesses in the affair were former members of the administration who also worked at Brodosplit, who indicated that both the supervisory board and the management had warned at sessions that it was a bribery, corruption and illegal affairs. They delivered Bajic and the record that they were key witnesses. And what's going on? Under political pressure, Mr. Bajic also opens a criminal persecution against these biggest and most important witnesses. Why? Because before that, they were members of the administration who had lost a lot of money at Brodosplit, and because of the great loss, they opened up a prosecution. It disqualifies important witnesses. Important witnesses disqualify and everything's fine. I'm in favour of opening the procedure when big losses are made, but shipyards have been losing since 1990. No administration has been processed. After 2004, the mass of management you have even greater losses created. No administration has been processed. Therefore, the prosecution for losses in shipbuilding is directed only to witnesses who provided information about what was going on in the monitoring board and what was going on in the Brodosplit administration. You can't tell me it's quality, you can't tell me that it's not a political influence on how witnesses should be disqualified. And that's why we're at a dead end about "Brodosplit" and they'll probably get into obsolescence. And that's why personally, since I know a lot about some affairs, I don't think it's done the way it imposes on someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47913	Thank you. 3 replicas, the first lady representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47914	You told Linic in your debate that during the debates, members of the HDZ Club are the most mentioned as persons in criminal activities. However, they are not interested in any investigation or judgment. I'll say it on three examples that bind to your name. The River Bank, the investigation is closed, the verdicts have been issued, as far as I know, you haven't received a verdict. As far as "Lance" is concerned, which is somehow not only connected to you but to our entire party here was an investigative commission. The result of the investigation committee's work is such that my colleague Vresk and I, who were members of this investigation committee, insisted that the entire material of several non-kg but tens of kg be delivered to the State Attorney's Office who collected the investigation committee. As far as I have information, the investigation is closed and the case is closed, the report has been dropped. And lastly, and this has already been discussed here about Excelsiora is also in the debate over the formation of an investigative committee of the whole material that was delivered in a parliamentary debate delivered to the State's Attorney's office. It investigated the case and also rejected the application.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47915	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47916	Okay, that's the part of the political debauchery where some members of the HDZ in this assembly are trying to get dirty in every way and try to justify not working in the process, I'd say crime, fool everyone. The River Bank, I was never a suspect. It's the invention of Mr. Sanader, carried through my colleagues. Also, Victor Lenac, we won't tell you what's been done, there's no prosecutions, there's no procedures. About "Excelsior" to whom someone gives 30 million marks and asks Croatia to take over 40 million credit marks cannot be more favourable than the offer where someone gives a million and a half, and takes all 40. You can't explain that. Why? Because he's lying, hiding. The state's attorney rejects it, but for my colleagues in the Parliament, that's no argument. It's also called political pressure. Yeah, that's the political pressure, because if the State's Attorney's office ended up hearing what my colleagues say, "We're going to rebuild it again." What kind of messages are these? What do you think I'm gonna be afraid of? Well, there's no way, I won't be afraid, but it's ugly messages. Who are you? Well, I guess they're persecuting the bodies of the Republic of Croatia, not you who want to do something about political lies and pressures. So it will continue, so today I hear commissions and not to mention what. All right, just keep going, but you need to know some of us who can work and who are honest in the work you won't scare. You will have many of your pressures, and you will have complete ineffectiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47917	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47918	A colleague of Linic's on the European Commission's assessment of the situation in the Croatian judiciary in general has no doubt that any authority is directly responsible for the functioning of the judicial authority. It is therefore very important that we all know that there is finally no independent judiciary unless the ruling simply does not realize it. Because it's very important that everything happens in a certain political climate. What they think about the independence of the judiciary on their position, and finally the position of the individual in the whole system. The war on criminal charges hasn't stopped since 2004. And what counterpart Slavko Linic said, and when the authorities specifically state attorney's office declare a certain criminal application, it is not enough for the HDZ structure. We'll see about that. No matter who you are in this sense. It's yours to create all the conditions that you're doing your best to get your paw and boot off the judiciary so that it can actually do its job. And that's why you took advantage of those fake meals. So it's not enough that I repeat what my colleague Slavko Linic is saying is not enough when he finds the state's attorney's office that in a particular case everything was legal. Well, that's really unspeakable. But that shows in essence what HDZ thinks of judicial independence. And that is why there is no surprise at all that the European Commission's assessment of this chapter and why we are blocked today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47919	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47920	It is evident that the judiciary will have far greater success if the support is given on both the left and the right and if people who are more experienced and more high-quality from year to year, but if there really is support. I'm afraid there's no support for you. And that shows the good part and the debate in the Croatian Parliament, and that is the worst part. Because the situation in the Croatian state cannot only be blamed for the government, at least ugly phenomena, phenomena that are not acceptable to Croatian society should be dealt with by this Parliament. But no, there's no such thing as a wish. Bad news is that they are not good-quality management of companies, bad discussions about not spending the best money. The debate is that it is not the best quality of employment, that it is overemployment. No, we're talking about this here dialogue, conversation, debate, we can't set up. And that moment begins by the Croatian Parliament I would say a negative impact on the state's attorney's office, on the judicial system. Unfortunately, the Croatian institutions are not dealing with problems, they are not trying to solve the problem together, and that is why our citizens are increasingly living worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47921	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47922	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you mentioned that in the last 6 months, the story of the fight over corruption has been intensified and that in some way the attorney's office is acting without or with less political pressure than it was before. They mentioned during the discussion of cases of pressure on individual cases. But today's debate could conclude that HDZ members mention some of these affairs especially as regards you, so Mayor Lovric is not satisfied with the work of the state's attorney's office. And they think that today when they support the lawyer that they will reopen those affairs tomorrow. Since many debates by HDZ colleagues have heard we will now open the drawers, now we will launch procedures, now we will see commissions on fire trucks. So what's the problem, gentlemen? Then why do you suggest Bajic? Put someone on HDZ and let that one do it. If that's how you think you're gonna work. The only thing I hope won't be the way in the past term as my colleague Shakespeare mentioned in an interview to be something auto-censorship. Let Bajic do his job fairly, without pressure and then will benefit Croatian and Croatian citizens. But don't look forward to it because you support it today, so you think that's why a man will start opening stories that suit you. Unfortunately, some signals are spinning there, as HDZ has now turned into the biggest pen pals of criminal charges. Here we see in Velika Gorica refuses the attorney's application against Picula, but HDZ right now, the city's office here's another one. So you hear you can specialize in that, too. It's not bad. You can help the judiciary write criminal charges, except you're pushing people overtime with unfounded reports, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47923	Replication response, Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47924	Yes, many of us are pleased that in the last few months, serious work and processing have begun. We would be most fortunate to stop talking about it and turn to the problems of the economy. Unfortunately, Mr. Bajic is making a mistake again. In what does he find justification for himself? He finds for himself that only a new law has enabled him to do so. So he doesn't want to say very clearly that there were political pressures, and that's something I would tell everyone clearly. And of course how to stand up to a man who won't admit certain mistakes, difficulties. It's hard to work under pressure. I claim the greatest pressure from this House with these discussions and would be easier to support him to confess. No, I don't. He finds his justification in the law. Of course that justification can't... And of course he's acting like one. Then are we surprised that when our colleagues pull the pieces, they get the debates out and then we start again in the wrong direction. Because today it is important to establish, imagine, that the SDP is against him, because it simply puts pressure on Bajic. The SDP is against him because Bajic has finally started to process some SDPs. No, we've been processed a long time ago. And yet we have solutions that set us free, but we're against him again, because he won't admit his mistake, he won't admit the situation that he was, and he won't give us a chance to talk a little differently in this House. These are unfortunately problems that seem to remain. And that's why I don't believe that we're going to help the judiciary, because we're on so many different sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47925	Thank you. The final review of Justice Minister Ivan Šimonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47926	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed resilient MPs and MPs. I'm extremely happy about the exhaustion and the heat of today's debate. It simply shows that the choice of a state attorney is not taken lightly. The debate, however, has spread to broader issues of fighting corruption and the development of the rule of law in Croatia. The vast majority of the debaters confirmed Mr. Bajic's expertise but questioned his grill or better said the duration of his barbecue. In assessing the work of the State Attorney's Office and Mr Bajic, it should be taken into account that Croatia is a rapidly changing society, developing democracy, political culture, introducing new institutions and the rule of law. It is clear, therefore, that the State Attorney's Office has not always had the same conditions for successful action involving, in particular, the staff of the appropriate educated staff, means, organisation, legislative framework, cooperation with other state bodies and also political will. But it is not specific for Croatia. This is also the case in other countries where different periods fight against corruption and other forms of crime decisively and differently. What I think is crucial is that today in Croatia there is a favourable atmosphere for fighting corruption and all other forms of crime and for the development of the rule of law. Croatia today is more a legal state than it has ever been and I sincerely hope it will be even more than today. It's not just numbers and statistics anymore. We have success in launching procedures and against high-level corruption. More recent assessments of both the European Commission and the European Parliament on the fight against corruption and crime are generally favourable and there is no fear of blocking Chapter 23. I think the unblocking of Chapter 23 should be measured for days, not weeks. There are clearly different considerations in the scenario whether Mladen Bajic represents the best candidate for state's attorney over the next four years. But even though it's important, it's not crucial. We can think that it is better to play Eduardo or Klasnic and once again when the decision is made, we cheer for Croatia. Honorable MPs and MPs, in the fight against corruption and crime, we have to share on us and them, but in doing so, they're not members of one party and they're all thieves and we're all after them or at least rooting to arrest them. I sincerely hope that the next annual report of the state's attorney will be welcomed and adopted by consensus and both due to the merits of the state's attorney and for the contribution of each of us to the common fight against corruption and all other forms of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47927	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with point Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan from 1 April 2008 to 30 September 2009. And at 12 o'clock voting on the points discussed so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-11-0.u47928	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the previous opinion of the Committee on Justice, I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to appoint the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 83 votes for and 1 abstention and 34 against the adopted decision on the appointment of Mladen Bajic as the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue to work and at the very beginning to say once again, last night it was announced that we will have a vote at 12 o'clock. There's a little expansion, an addition to the agenda, a vote on the points of the agenda. If the point we're going to discuss is a little longer, then it'll be a little later, but in any case, at 12 o'clock, we'll schedule a vote. ... So please make sure the clubs are notified. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
