ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52504	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 18th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President, Vice-President and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The 17th session was held at the session. Any objections to the record? If not, we have adopted the minutes of the 17th session in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda at the session you have been given the final draft agenda. I stress that the points that we did not discuss at the 17th session of the Croatian Parliament are printed in thicker letters. In the final draft agenda, I included three new points under regular numbers 9, 13 and 23. This is the proposal for a law on the reduction of pensions, which are achieved according to specific pension insurance rules with the final draft law, an emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 545th, this is point 9. Secondly, the proposal for a law on the financing of political elections promotion activities is first reading, P.Z. 544, this is point 13. I Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2009 point 23. applicant Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a single law is to be adopted in an emergency procedure. The final draft agenda under points 9 to 12 then points 14 and 37, which are proposed to adopt by emergency procedure, are set out. These are the proposal for a law on the reduction of pensions, which are achieved according to specific rules on pension insurance with the Final Bill, paragraph 9. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Asylum Act, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 540 of point 10, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, with the final proposal of the Law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. Point 541.11. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on compulsory health insurance, with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 542nd point 12. The draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act with the final draft law is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 543rd point 14. I Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and members of their families, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 539. 37. Proposer, SDP representative Klub. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of emergency procedures in the adoption of these laws? Mr. Andrija Hebrang, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52505	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The HDZ Club is opposed to an emergency procedure for the adoption under regular number 37. P.Z. 539. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families with a final proposal for the law, and we believe that there is no urgency in this content that this is a subject that can be discussed in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52506	Thank you. Is there any further objections to certain points of the agenda to be made by emergency procedure? I would like to stress that the final draft law amending and supplementing the Asylum Act, P.Z.E. the number 540 of point 10 is aligned with the European Union rules, and in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure in the case of the adoption of this Act. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws, please be involved in checking the quorum. The result. 94, many of them certainly didn't get involved but we have a quorum and we can decide and move on to a decision of urgency. First of all, if any of the MPs and advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Pension Reduction Act, as defined in specific pension rules, P.Z. Number 545, point 9.? There isn't. Let us please include and vote on the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this Law. The result. Emergency accepted by 85 for, 8 abstentions and 1 against. We move to another point, if any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, P.Z. Number 541, point 11. There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote on the urgency of this bill. The result. The urgency of the procedure was accepted by the majority of 83 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 4 against. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance, P.Z. Number 542 point 12? There isn't. Let us please engage and vote on the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this law. The result? This emergency proposal has been accepted by most votes. Seventy-six for, eight abstentions and five against. Does any of the representatives and advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, P.Z. Number 543 point 14.? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. The result? This emergency proposal was adopted by the majority of the votes. 78 votes in favour, nine abstentions and six against. Does any of the representatives and advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and of members of their families, except that Mr Hebrang stated on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ that opposes the application of the emergency procedure? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure for this law. The result? The emergency procedure was not accepted because it voted 31, 3 abstentions and 64 against and goes into regular procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session and the agenda is considered adopted in accordance with Article 203(4). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Objections can now only be submitted to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. In point 9, we made clear on the occasion of the emergency vote. Do any of the MPs have objections to paragraph 13 and point 23 of the final bill? There isn't. If there are no objections, gentlemen and Madam Representatives, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I suggest if you agree that I do not read it in full, but let me announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda, with an amendment to the urgency of this one law. Ladies and gentlemen, the session of the European Integration Committee will be held at 14 o'clock, so in one half hour, at the Josipa Jelačić Hall instead of the Ivan Kukuljevic Hall. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the I would like to inform you that the Government has provided answers, except in two cases, to the question of Mr Ante Kotromanović and Milanka Opačić, and to ask the Government to answer these questions within 8 days. This first part of today's session will be interrupted, and then we will continue at 15 o'clock according to the agenda Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Golf Courses, it is an emergency procedure. 15 o'clock here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52509	Please, let us all stay in our seats and complete our agenda. I'm going to propose an addition to the 18th session agenda with 11 new points. 1. Proposal for a law amending the Act on Support for Jobs with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 549. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sanitary Inspection with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 550. 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 552. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 553. 5. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract for the establishment of a regional school for public administration RESPA with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 554. Six. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank on amendments and additions to the framework loan agreement between the Council of Europe and the Republic of Croatia concerning the FP 1498 in 2004, projects for the construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 555. Seven. Annual report by the Croatian National Bank for 2009. Carrier of the Croatian National Bank. 8. The proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 41(1) and Article 42. Laws on ownership and other real rights of the National Journal No. 91/96, 68/98, 138/99, 22/73, 114/02, 114/06, 146/08, 38/09. and 153/09. The proposer is the Committee on Legislatives. Nine. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Civil Surveillance Council of the Security Intelligence Agency in the order of graduate lawyers. Proposer of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Ten. Proposal for a conclusion on support for an international initiative on the establishment of the World Day of the Roma Language. Proposer of a group of representatives. 11. Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2009. Carrier of the Croatian Olympic Committee. The supplemental proposal is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Does any of the representatives have an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Act on Support for Preserve Jobs, P.Z. Number 549 point 1.? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Please engage and vote. The suggestion is to vote with your hand. Let's go vote by hand, we've got counters. Who is in favour of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on Support for Preserve Jobs, P.Z. Number 549, point 1, bring in an emergency procedure, raise your hand? Do you mind? Abstained? 1. The emergency procedure was accepted by 116 for and 1 abstention. Thank you very much. 2, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sanitary Inspection, P.Z. No. 550, item 2? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law shall raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Abstained? 1. I find that with 116 votes for and 1 abstention the Law on Amendments and Supplements on Sanitary Inspection has been passed. He can go after the emergency procedure. 3, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, P.Z. No. 552, point 3? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Who is in order for this law to go by emergency procedure to raise your hand. Thank you. Against? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. I find it unanimous that the law can go by emergency procedure, with 115 votes. 4, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on membership, on tourist communities, P.Z. No. 553, point 4? Your Honor, Agent Vinko. ... Vinkovic, come in. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52510	There's no Rules of Procedure, so you could remember. I have noted the adoption of an emergency procedure of this law because many tourist communities and many units of local self-government will have to abolish the tourist communities because they are losing their rights, since I have seen the proposal of this law lose one large majority of the income they received from the insurance houses. And it will happen that most Adriatics, most of the continents, will not have a tourist community, and the Law on Local Self-Government, which is therefore related to the work of tourist communities in local self-government units, will be responsible for this will be the heads of local self-government, mayors, and the law is the one that destroys the work of tourist communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52511	Thank you. We are going to vote on an emergency procedure with a single remark, it is the honourable representative Vinkovic. Who is to apply the emergency procedure to the law of P.Z. No. 553, raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. Emergency accepted with 105 for and 3 against. Thank you. 5, does any of the MPs have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing a Regional School for Public Administration, RESPA, P.Z. No. 554, point 5? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law shall raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? No, I'm not. I'm not. Abstained? 1. I find that, with 103 votes for and 1 abstention in the agenda, this legislative proposal has been included in the emergency procedure. 6, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Loan Agreement between the Council of Europe Development Bank and the Republic of Croatia, which is adopted on the FP 1498 2004 on the construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on the Croatian islands, P.Z. No. 555? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law shall raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Abstained? No one. I find that this legislative proposal has been included in the agenda by an emergency procedure with 103 votes unanimously. Any of the MPs and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 18th session agenda, these are acts from 7th to 11th points of the proposed addition? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to determine that the addition of the agenda has been established in accordance with the proposed order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52512	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. We're going back to work. I welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor and the Ministers present. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 204, paragraph 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 18th session agenda with 12 new points. First, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions with a final draft law, it was an emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 556. Second, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Indicative Activity with the Final Proposal for a Law, also an emergency procedure for P.Z. No. 557. Third, the proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and use of pipelines in the state area of the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal of the law, also emergency procedure P.Z. No. 558. Fourthly, the draft Act amending the Law on Croatian Radio Television with the final draft law is an emergency procedure P.Z. No. 559. Fifthly, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act with the final draft law, also emergency procedure P.Z.560. Sixth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act with the final proposal for a Law, emergency procedure P.Z. No. 561. Seven, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Fire Department with a final draft law, emergency procedure P.Z.E. No. 563. Eight, a proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities with the Final Proposal of the Constitutional Law, is an urgent procedure for P.Z. No. 569. Ninth, proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The tenth, appointment of judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Eleventh, Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2009. Supporter of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. And 12th, the 2009 Agency for the Protection of Personal Data Report. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The supplemental proposal is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Fire Department with the final draft law, the urgent procedure of P.Z. No. It shall comply with EU rules and Article 161 TFEU. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. Please engage to check the quorum. Please, let's get involved. The result? We've got a quorum. 98 agents confirmed presence. So we can vote. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions? There isn't. Then let's get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure of this law. The result? 94 for, 1 abstention and 2 against. So, accepting an emergency procedure. I suggest that for the sake of moving faster, we vote by raising our hands for these next ones, and there are many. So I suggest, any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attending Activity, P.Z. No. 557, point 2? There isn't. Who's to apply the urgency of the procedure, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The urgency was accepted by most votes, 122 votes for and 1 against, no abstentions. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation in cooperation with the construction and use of pipelines in the state area of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 558, point 3? There isn't. Who's to apply an emergency procedure please raise your hand to this law? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act was unanimously voted with 124 votes. Do any of the representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on Croatian Radio TV P.Z. Number 559. Yeah? Mrs. Zeljka Antunović, MP and vice president, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52513	This law and a whole series of other laws that are here, regardless of what the government is proposing as part of anti-recession measures, is too serious a procedure to discuss such topics in this way. We should become a finally serious Parliament and I think that this will seriously discuss serious issues in the long term, and not like this from today until tomorrow, and I think that would be the best way to fight the recession, that we have solutions that will hold water not only while the masters are in the house. Unacceptably contrary to the Rules of Procedure, contrary to all democratic standards, I am against such an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52514	Anybody else? Mrs. Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52515	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNSU Club, we believe that we have already burned a lot of times with the Law on this subject and with partial changes or suggestions for changes on this subject, and that this law requires really two readings so that we propose on behalf of the Club that this law and the other topics related to the European Union come, so we suggest that this law goes into two readings, so that we do not bring ourselves into the situation that we have a law that de facto or destroys Croatian radiotelevision or allows chaos that is now there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52516	Thank you. Anyone else have any objections? Damir Cain, MP, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52517	When it comes to this part of the agenda on Croatian Radio TV, I agree with Mrs Pusic that we have burned a thousand times, but with this legislative proposal, the Government of Croatia really wants to burn us. What happened? After the Croatian Radio Television correctly, which is positively defined as a working referendum, the government has definitely decided whether HRT will be our service or will be no one's service. HRT, I agree, gentlemen, that the mastodon has a lot to change, but you can't change these relationships from today to tomorrow. I even agree that 90% of Croatian employers would agree that the circumstances at this point would be largely due to the government's move to have 25% less income, than they had in 2008, but if Croatia's broadcasting approach to this measure, we will actually push that television into bankruptcy, and it is still more incomparably better, more open than many commercial televisions. Therefore, since these are measures that are directly trampled by a public service, the IDS Club is absolutely against even thinking that in this way anyone in this country is playing with democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52518	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52519	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, about this proposal to amend the Law on Croatian Radio Television, I absolutely reject everything that Agent Cain has said in his design, that is not true, Mr. Representative. Croatian broadcasting is also a working Croatian radiotelevision, operating in the Republic of Croatia, which is very much heightened by the economic crisis and we have made it very clear in the economic recovery programme, that among other measures to support the economy we will be doing a big job that has not been done so far and this is reducing non-taxable givings. And we did it about Croatian forests, Croatian waters, the tourist community etc. This is also an untaxed giving on which up to a billion kuna is collected from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, our decision is on the trail of the economic recovery programme. On the one hand, strengthening the economy, on the other hand supporting the population, support primarily the most vulnerable groups in Croatian society. We talked with the leadership, temporary leadership of Croatian radio and agreed on a way to solve problems that are not small on Croatian radio television, with the rest mentioned and debt to the state budget. Therefore, it was agreed that by October 1st, Croatian broadcasting will prepare a restructuring plan, present to the government, and then we will negotiate further measures. We also agreed that this decision would be extended by an amendment to the government that we will make on Thursday, until 1 November of this year, and therefore I accept the proposal by Ms. Pusic, that this law goes into two readings, based on a constructive proposal, and all other insinuations from the presentation of Kajin on behalf of the Government I strongly reject and reject.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52520	Well. This law, as we've heard. Correction of an incorrect allegation? He can fix it, but he can't replicate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52521	The Croatian Prime Minister said I use insinuations. It's an incorrect quote. It's not true that I'm getting... I don't use any insinuations... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52522	Please finish, please. Let's move on, we won't waste any time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52523	Only now, after the Croatian government has withdrawn its decision to everyone in the Croatian public is it clear that.../The speaker has been excluded./... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52524	Thank you. It's an intrusion debate, not a correction of an incorrect quote. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This bill goes into regular procedure. Let's move on. Any of the representatives and representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax, P.Z. No. 560, item 5 of the draft agenda? There isn't. (Laughter) And there is. Well, my people don't have to see everything that's wrong with you. (Laughter) I can't look over there and see it over here. (Laughter) Fortunately, I'm not the cause, so I can't see. Here you go, Vice President. And I don't need a bad reaction to that, it's enough just to warn that I haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52525	Mr. President, everything's fine. But it's not right with what the government is proposing, and I think we're almost going towards 100% of the law by emergency procedure. An emergency procedure is an option and provides for the adoption of laws under such an accelerated procedure, which means only in exceptional situations after a drastically shortened discussion. We here have a bill that goes into the tax system. Our tax system has long sought serious reform due to such a way of incurring it, due to such interventions, changes and complementarity of this tax system, and has long failed to meet the basic objectives of the country on the one hand and of the taxpayers on the other hand, and this means towards the development of the Republic of Croatia and then also to address all the problems that Croatia has been facing lately in economic terms. It has long been said and long since the government has announced measures, and then the Parliament is in a position to adopt laws overnight, discuss them and make a decision. Experts don't support this way of changing the tax system. It's not in the interest of the citizens or the economy. I think it would be in the interest of Croatia's future if the entire parliament did not allow the future government to behave in this way and to discuss and decide such serious issues that have serious consequences overnight. I suggest that both this and the following laws be put into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52526	Thank you. The Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, will be declared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52527	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government remains with its proposal that these laws go into emergency procedures. It is the laws that are contained in the proposed programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. If someone thinks that the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, the recovery of the economy, the preservation of jobs and the support of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should not do anything at this time, then it is, of course, the legitimate civil political right of those in this Croatian Parliament, the parliament that sits and thinks that nothing should be done, that it should wait and hope that the crisis will pass itself. She's big, she's tough all over the world. See what speedy, literally overnight decisions are made by the governments of many European Union countries. That's what this government has to do with it. It is your right to support it, it is your right not to support it and thus to say that the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia is not expected and that it is not desirable for you. So it is time for brave and determined decisions and I ask the Croatian Parliament to support it. In fact, decisions do not have to be made overnight, they will be made by day in the Croatian Parliament. And as for the government, the government will be working all summer. There is no obstacle to Parliament and extend its session and meeting during the summer. Of course it's your decision. But the crisis is so deep and heavy that there's no time for cowardice, there's no time to give up and there's no time to get up. It's the right of every one of us to take sides. [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52528	Thank you. So we have an objection to the urgency of the procedure in passing this law. The government stays at its stand. I am voting on a proposal to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Law on Profit Tax. I'm asking who's to raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 76 votes in, 54 against. So, this proposal goes according to emergency procedures. We have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act. The observation not to go to an emergency procedure has already been carried out by Mrs Antunovic in the previous one, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52529	Well, I didn't bring it all up. In fact, the crisis in Croatia has been going on for two years. Up until a year or a year or a half ago, a year ago from the Croatian government from where a warning was originally to start and to do something against, or in favour of, crisis management, there was no recognition that the crisis existed. In the last year, there has been serious talk about the crisis, but it is a way of proposing laws that must be passed by emergency procedure. Of course no one on this left, and especially not me, we're not against doing anything, but what we're doing doesn't deserve support. It's done in part, it's done in the wrong way, it's done without seeing the real consequences of what's being brought. I'll repeat, the tax system is in a state of decomposition. The tax system no longer meets almost any goal for which it exists. To access the tax system in a way that within this year of Ms. Kosor sitting at the head of the government did not approach and did not come before this Parliament with a serious proposal for reform in which these measures will be incorporated, but not only these measures but also all others that should have been brought long ago, which we have proposed on this left hand side quite well and countless times. That's how it's supposed to work. None of us are against it, on the contrary. You are the ones who spend time, you are the ones who spend time without suggesting anything, you are the ones who want to inaugurate through.... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52530	Thank you. This proposal was made by the Prime Minister. Does he want an extra one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52531	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, something about logic in this proposal is wrong. So, on the one hand, the MP says the government is wasting time, and on the other hand it is opposed to an emergency procedure. So, something absolutely wrong with that. I just want to remind once again that the programme of economic recovery of the Government of Croatia is in this form, and the segments of this programme are now coming before you MPs, supported by the World Bank, from the World Bank where they said it was a great programme just to be implemented, the IMF but certainly also the Croatian National Bank. I'll also remind the Economic Social Council. I think that these are sufficient arguments that both you MPs and gentlemen MPs accept that these decisions are made urgently because we live in particularly difficult times and no delay is acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52532	Thank you. We've heard opposition to an emergency procedure. We heard the government's response. Who's to apply an emergency procedure to the adoption of this law please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The proposal to pass this law by an urgent procedure was adopted by a majority vote of 79 votes in favour, 52 votes against. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, P.Z. No. 569 point 8 of the supplemental proposal? There isn't. Who's to apply an emergency procedure to the adoption of this constitutional law please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal to pass this constitutional law by emergency procedure was unanimously adopted by 131 votes. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 18-session agenda? These are the acts referred to in points 9 to 12 of the supplement submitted. So you wouldn't read, we've heard them before. If not, ladies and gentlemen, the addition of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 18th session agenda with 12 new points of which 11 of which you won on the bench and 12 of you later placed. It's a proposal for a law on the Commissioner for Information, first reading, P.Z. Number 562. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Secondly, the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified data with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 564. Thirdly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 2009 Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Programme for Transition Assistance and Strengthening Institutions with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 565. Fourthly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Project Needs of the Justice Sector with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 566. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the provision of services in tourism with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 567 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on road transport with the Final Proposal for a Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 568 7. Report on the state of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2009. 8. A report on the work of the Department of Prosecution of the Ministry of Justice for 2009. Nine. Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2009. Ten. Proposal for a decision appointing the Water Services Council. 11. Annual report by the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. 12. Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the event "Traces of Ancients". A proposal to supplement the agenda as I have already said has been allocated to you on benches with the addition of point 12. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, P.Z. the number 568, point 6 is aligned with the rules of the European Union and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. Please engage to check the quorum. The result? 99 means we can keep working and vote. Does any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of a certification law between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified data, 564, paragraph 2? To us. Then let's vote on an emergency proposal for this bill. Here, let's get involved and vote. Please, who's in favour of this motion to proceed with an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity. 109 thanks. Secondly, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Programme of Assistance in Transition and Strengthening Institutions for 2009, P.Z. Point 3? If not, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? There isn't. - Thank you. - Thank you. Thank you. Does this have any objection from the representatives to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Project Support to the Justice Sector, P.Z. Number 566, point 4 of the proposal? There isn't. Who's gonna raise a hand for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity 110. Does this have any effect on the application of the procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of services in tourism, P.Z. 567, point 5? There isn't. Who's in favor of the emergency proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity 111. Does this have any objection from the representatives to the inclusion of the other items of the 18th session agenda, those are acts under number 1 and paragraphs 7 to 12? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52535	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52536	Thank you. ... Congratulations to the new representative and I want a lot of success in the work and especially in the assembly benches. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52537	I propose that we complete the agenda before voting on the points that have been passed. In accordance with Article 204(2), ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Council I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 18th session agenda with 11 new points. First draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 570. Second Proposal for a Law on protection against non-ionising radiation with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 571. Third proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, with the completion of the draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 572. Fourthly, the proposal for a Decision appointing the president of a part of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, a proposal for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Fifthly, a report on the implementation of the National Pedagogical Standard of Preschool Education and Education between 10 June 2008 and 31 December 2009, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Sixth, a report on the implementation of the State Pedagogical Standard in the primary education and education system between 10 June 2008 and 31 December 2009 by the proposed Government of the Republic of Croatia. Seventhly, a report on the implementation of the National Pedagogical Standard of the Higher Education and Education System from 10 June 2008 to 31 December 2009, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Eight, annual report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2009, proposed by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Ninth, a report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency in 2009, proposed by the Croatian Small Economy Agency. 10th, Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts on Privatisation of INA, the Oil Industry d.d., and all Contracts and Contracts Supplements between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Strategic Partner MOL, Hungarian and Gas Gas Gas, Proposer Research Commission for the Determination of Facts on Privatisation of INA, the Oil Industry and all Contracts... the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic partner of the MOL. [[You don't understand.]] Eleventhly, a proposal for a decision on the selection of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, a proposal for a Committee on the Constitution, a Rules of Procedure and a political system. The supplemental proposal is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure shall first decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by an urgent procedure. I stress that the proposal of the Law on Protection against Non-ionising radiation with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. It shall comply with the provisions of the European Union and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on the rules of procedure in the case of the adoption of this law. Please engage to check the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52538	Let's get involved to determine the quorum. Thank you, 98, we can decide. We're moving on to the completion of the agenda. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. Number 572, point 3? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure for this law. Let's get involved and vote. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 96 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against. Do any of the MPs and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 18th session agenda? Those are the acts referred to in point 1 and the amendments submitted from points 4 to 11. There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the continuation of the session of the Croatian Parliament is on Tuesday, so the sixth is due to the extensiveness of the agenda. So one day next week, and we're going to decide on the last week to achieve a proper pace of debate, then we're going to see how long until the fifteenth day we're going to have to work. So, on Tuesday at 9.30 p.m., we begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, P.Z. 546. It's an emergency procedure. Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. Thank you and rest well for the next effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52542	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I'm reporting here as vice president of the SDP Club and chairman of the Media Committee. We, in our agenda under item 11, are scheduled to discuss amendments to the Law on Croatian Television, and under point 27 of the new Law on Croatian Television. Due to the events in Prisavlje, yesterday's appointment of the new director of the programme, because two members of the council, the council of the Programme Council, resigned on their own duty, because the Council now lacks the required number of members to elect a new director, because the situation in Croatia is dramatic for SDP's assessment of the situation, and I called for a meeting of the Media Committee today for 13.30 hours. The SDP Club proposes that I amend the term of the committee's session, that the committee's session be held immediately, say at 10 o'clock, and that we discuss these two common points, points 11 and 27 today, immediately after the meeting of the board, because the situation at the HRT requires urgent debate in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52543	Please establish the quorum because we will move to an extension of the agenda. Please, let's get on with it. Let's get involved so we don't forget to check to see if it's blushed in the right place. We didn't get involved, ladies and gentlemen. Which is why I have to be so boring that for five, six times I warn, my people, if we're present, let's get involved to see that we're here. Let's see the score. 83 on. We can go to the vote. First, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 204(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 18th session agenda with 14 new points. 1, Final proposal of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of converting and privatising P.Z. No. 423, third reading, 2, Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Citizens of Other Member States of the European Union in the elections for representative bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 587, 3, Proposal for a Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 588, 4, Proposed Fire Protection Act, with final bill, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 589, Proposal for a Law on Elections of Members in the European Parliament, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 590, 6, Proposal for a Law amending the Exchange Act, with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 591, 7, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 592, 8, Proposal for amendments to the National Pedagogical Standard of Pre-school Education and Education, 9, Proposal for an amendment and addition of the State Pedagogical Standard of Primary Education and Education System, 10, Proposal for amendments and addition of the State Pedagogical Standard of the Secondary Education and Education System, 11, Report on the work and operation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2009, 12, Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2009, 13, Report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives for 2009 and 14, Annual Report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 May 2009 to 30 April 2010. The supplemental proposal is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress, the proposal for a law on the right of citizens of other Member States of the European Union in elections, etc., P.Z. No. 587, point 2; Proposal for a State Support Act on Agriculture, P.Z. No. 588, paragraph 3; Proposal for a Fire Protection Act with a final draft law, P.Z. No. 589 and Proposal for a Law on Elections of Members for the European Parliament in the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. No. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of these laws. Please engage to check the quorum. Once again, please make everything clear. Let's see the score. 88 again. There's more of us here, but we're moving on. Any of the representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Exchange Act, P.Z. 591, point 6? Yes, Vice President Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52544	Very briefly and simply, there is no reason on the Rules of Procedure that this law is based on an urgent procedure. I propose a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52545	Thank you. We have an objection to the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this law. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this law. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This law will go into emergency procedure because it voted 72 for, 4 abstentions and 22 against. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Education and Education at primary school. P.Z. No. 592nd point 7.? Yeah. Mrs. Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52546	Your Honor, Mr. President, the SDP Representatives Club disagrees that we should pass this law by an urgent procedure. In the light of the urgency of the procedure, it states that it is located in particularly justified state reasons, i.e. the plan of implementation and the economic recovery programme. If you read the text of the law in the content itself, there is no measure in the economic recovery plan. Here it is said, about the order of speaking pedagogical measures, what are the conditions for class teachers' work. Further talk is about ending the contract with 65 years of life, talking about when the school's principal's term of office ends, how to quit, etc. Therefore, there is not a single measure in the economic recovery programme, and there is indeed no business reason to discuss this law in an urgent manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52547	Thank you very much. As you've heard, there is a Club of Representatives of the SDP commenting on the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this law. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. Let's get involved and vote. The result? The urgency of the procedure was voted most of the votes, 76 votes in favour, 27 against. Any of the representatives and representatives of the objection to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 18th session agenda. These are acts under points 1 and 14, so I don't read them. Do we? We don't. If there are no objections, the representatives of the completion of the agenda shall be identified. I'd like the board presidents to call the board meetings on Monday to discuss the points of the agenda, otherwise we'll start the post at 9:30 on Monday, 10:00, so the committees have a little more time. So on Monday 12, we'll continue the session at 10.00 hours. And immediately to announce the item of the agenda with which we will begin the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties. It's a second reading, P.Z. No. 499. We're crossing. Here you go, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52549	Thank you, Mr. President. Given the emerging situation, I'm asking for a five-minute break on behalf of the HNS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52550	About what?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52551	Given the emerging situation in the Croatian capital and police action.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52552	Please. Please, nice. The Chair of the Assembly will not approve a recess for the meeting of the Club of Representatives if the request for a recess is submitted A) prior to the establishment of the agenda and the transition to the agenda, secondly for reasons relating to the work of the working bodies of the Assembly and in connection with the resignation, a statement by representatives outside the Assembly. I don't know which one we can do then, every time we're looking for a break when something happens somewhere and someone thinks we should discuss it. Please, nice. I can't see. Come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52553	Thank you, Mr. President. The request for a break that I filed on behalf of the HNSU Representatives Club does not apply to any of the three cases you mentioned here. It is not possible to approve a break of either of these three reasons that you have stated but rather a new situation in the capital and a police action that is absolutely relevant to the State Parliament and we believe that I is absolutely qualified as a reason for a break sought by the club and we will explain after a break more detailed reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52554	Please. This House is not prohibited nor is there any prohibition to speak of certain points set out in the agenda. I suppose the situation can always be estimated that there is an event somewhere in Bjelovar, Zagreb or Metkovic or Dubrovnik and then ask for a break so that it can be talked about. I think we cannot accept it, I will put this proposal to a vote, who is for this proposal to allow the situation in the City of Zagreb debate... Oh, please, I don't approve of a break. Please, nice. Let's move on, we haven't finished the agenda. You can't create an atmosphere when it's politically appropriate for you in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52555	It's not creating an atmosphere.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52556	I don't know what you're talking about, you're talking about the situation in the City of Zagreb. Mr. Milanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52557	Your Honor, Mr. President. If we didn't have the history of working in this House that we have, I would agree with you, so your remark is logical and political in place, the only problem is that for the first time I hear it in this House. So the practice is different, you decide what you want, we know what's going on in Zagreb. I don't know which cheerleading turns this off. But there are other ways to talk about it. But I won't be long, so don't throw it away. We have a completely different practice for many years and cases of private use of the right to pause. If you want to break it now, you can do that, but you have to keep in mind that practice is different, and now for the first time, and even tattooologically interpret the rules of procedure, if you want to do so. And the subject she wanted to talk about, Mrs Pusic has other ways to talk about, she can do this, she can do something else, you have a majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52558	Mr. Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52559	Mr. President, I can understand that you are interpreting the Rules of Procedure as necessary to interpret it, and there we cannot enter into a dispute with you and not give you the right. However, the fact is, Mr. President, based on the information we receive from a group of council members of the City of Zagreb City Assembly, so representatives of the citizens of the City of Zagreb, such as we representatives of the people in this country, are brought in by our police. If that's what happens to you, then I'm gonna ask you to discuss it in this House, I had no intention of asking for it. I'm asking you to keep this interest in this matter at this level, that's the problem. That those chosen, who have the position of their congregation, of one thing, and who seek to defend their presence in a particular place are brought to justice by the police. So that's something about us, because tomorrow we can be in a position, too, because of what.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52560	Please. Let the colleague finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52561	I am asking you colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, there was an opportunity for our police to act for much more serious matters. For calls at stadiums, concerts, calls for violence, so she didn't do it, I don't see why she should do it in case she can talk, she can negotiate things that need to be discussed and negotiated, especially if it includes people who think it's their obligation to be there and they're chosen by the citizens of this town. I therefore think that we can discuss this in some other place, but I am not in a position to ignore what Mrs Pusic has initiated as a thing, not as a requirement for us to start discussing it at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52562	Ladies and gentlemen, please. I'm not going in at all what's going on, it's just that something's going on in Zagreb. I can be reported, I can be informed, I don't have to be informed. Every day there are events happening in the City of Zagreb and other cities. We would thus create a precedent in the Croatian Parliament that whenever someone is remembered practically to declare a problem either important or less important, or I don't know how important, they are then asked to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament. There's one procedure. We know that certain points of the agenda come to the session of the Croatian Parliament, how they are voted and how we include them. We have not completed the work of this session, nor have we exhausted all the points of the agenda, i.e. the vote we received here. I think that's why we need to, I'm not against any problem being discussed if someone is qualified as very important to bring it out in a procedure in some way, and there's no reason, we'll call and call if it's such an important extraordinary session of the Assembly because today we're concluding. We will call an extraordinary session of the Parliament if the problems are so important. But I'm looking for a break like this because something's going on in the City of Zagreb, and I don't think that's an explanation enough, and that's why I don't think we should keep this thing going. Or submit a written proposal to include some item on the agenda, I'll invite everyone, the club representatives of the HDZ and I have the right to call an extraordinary session and we'll discuss it. Mr Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52563	Mr. President, don't make a mistake this time. Don't make a mistake because the city's attorneys have been arrested. ... It has a lot to do with anything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's not make a mistake, let's...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52564	The MPs have also been arrested.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52565	Things are being debated in the House, and this happened abruptly and has to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52566	Look, there's a law. I don't know who's been arrested. I'm sorry anyone's been arrested. It's right there in the law that's meant to be arrested. Well, there are some MPs who are arrested, so we haven't been making a fuss like this. Mrs. Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52567	Mr. President, I remind you I didn't ask to put an end to the agenda for the debate. I asked for a break on behalf of the club for five minutes. Stanka serves so that after a break, after consulting the club, I can explain the reasons for the break in detail. ... /The noise in the hall./... Therefore, business is fully in line with all the rules and I ask you once again to grant us a break on behalf of the HNS and HSU club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52568	Representative Stipe Gabric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52569	... I have to answer the word here because as mayor, I've been taken into custody several times in a margin in Dubrovnik on the basis of a fake, it turns out that later on, a false report from the police station in Metkovic, that I threatened him with my cell phone, which was later determined that I didn't. [[Specially enabled.]] This High House, the Croatian Parliament, took off my immunity for the fifth time last year in front of local elections, we all voted and I voted, and the application was that I had threatened a senior police officer in Dubrovnik, Božna Cvetkovic-Redjo, so instead of sitting here at this Assembly seven times I went to the hearing and on Monday I rejected a criminal application at the County Court in Dubrovnik, rejected as unfounded because I did not threaten. None of those present, then I prayed that everyone would vote to remove my immunity. When the police put me on the march, led me, I was also the county councilman of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and I was the leading coalition partner back then. Nobody's even moved their fingers that this is happening to the mayor of one city, that the representative of one county is not the biggest, but the most beautiful, what's going on with it, why they brought him in and why they chased him. If there are laws in this country to be respected and I am the same when I went to the vote here I couldn't go through Gundulic's, you turned right on the other hand we came to the Parliament. And I read and we're all involved in this Gundulic and this Warsaw. And it's embarrassing, but it's very embarrassing that an entrepreneur, whether it's ours or a stranger who's got all the necessary documents, all the necessary papers... All, is, the debate is strong, the debate... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen wanted to make a hen out of this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's inadmissible that we here, today it's the 15th, we end the vote. Let the city council members of the City of Zagreb handle this because not long ago they made a decision on DPU, Warsaw and Cvetnoga, and it was not made in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52570	Thank you very much. Please, ladies and gentlemen. We make this a permanent precedent in the Croatian Parliament, when the current event, however serious it is, etc. We want to move and discuss automation in a way in the Croatian Parliament. If we accept that, be assured that this precedent will serve anyone who thinks that somewhere is a very difficult situation or that something has happened, that it will be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. That's why I don't want to take responsibility for myself, I don't want to turn out in front of the Croatian public to close my eyes and not allow a business debate. But I'm asking you, this is a precedent that, no matter what serious it is, I think there should be some kind of procedure, not an ad hoc discussion. There will be seven or eight other club representatives who will also ask for a word and a statement, because there is now not only that event. It has quite other repercusions to a system that works or doesn't work. Therefore, I ask you yes, I would like to consult with the representatives of the clubs. Here. What? You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52571	So I kind of understand you. It's not precedent. The rule in this House was for the Institute to be used for the needs of the party. That's a fact. Now you want to apply the Rules of Procedure strictly and in a sense and tattooologically. Now you're not actually doing a precedent, but you're drawing a line now. It's up to you to decide what you're going to do, but it wouldn't be a precedent to ask and approve for reasons that have nothing to do with a procedure that's currently on the agenda. That's a fact. So you wouldn't be precedentd. If you draw the line now, then you've underlined forever, and as far as the subject is concerned, the subject is important. We'll talk about her. We can here, we don't need you to make a decision right now. That decision will be another kind of precedent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52572	I totally agree with you that it's certainly a precedent that got rid of it one way or the other. But I warn the Croatian Parliament that tomorrow when someone has another reason to ask for this, and one big part would disagree with what we're going to do then? So are we going to have the same criteria and standards for everyone or are we going to talk and keep talking here that we shouldn't? That's what I'm warning you. I suggest the next solution. We have two more points on the agenda. Then we'll vote on the Constitutional Court judge. During that time there will be a pause and after that vote I will give the word to Mrs Vesni Pusic, and I ask the rest of you not to report for political controversy to begin again. So, after there is a voting break on the Constitutional Court judge, he will get his word, but only Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here's my suggestion. That's why we keep going. Please proceed with your work. Please! Now, before I move to the last point of today's vote on the agenda, I warn that after the break we give in, enough is I think 20 minutes, because there are no, two candidates can therefore vote, and then I ask MPs and MPs to return to the constituency benches, so that they can announce the result of the vote and so that they can listen to Mrs Vesna Pusic who requested it. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52574	Mr. President, I don't think you can give one club just a word, in which case I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52575	They were looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52576	Every club president has the right to seek a break afterwards, then I am looking for it, because I want to talk after Mrs. Pusic, because I cannot agree that this Parliament is discussing something that has no data. We cannot criticise and discuss the process of the Croatian police, and we have no record of what is happening. So, please take a break, then so do I.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52577	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have announced, I will now give my word of duration for five minutes, Mrs. Vesni Pusic, and also Mr. Andrija Hebrang, who asked for the word. Here you go, Mrs. Wesna.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52578	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the HNS and HSU Club legitimately sought a break on behalf of the Club, since the reason we cited does not fall under any of the three business restrictions. At the moment, 100 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia were arrested, including some MPs in the City Assembly of Zagreb who protested peacefully in the city centre. Warsaw and Gundulic Street, the streets in the centre of the Croatian capital are now under the blockade of extremely strong police forces. Not entering the grounds for the protests at all, it is obvious that a state of emergency and serious danger to civil rights is created in Zagreb at this time. As Parliamentarians, we believe that it is our job and we believe that it is the task of Parliamentarians to have full information and to take a stand on such an action of strong police intervention. My colleague Hebrang said before this break that we don't know what this is about. We believe that hebrang has the right, we do not know exactly what it is, and why so much police repression, but we should also know because we should know the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired ask the Minister of Interior Tomislav Karamarko to explain to the Croatian Parliament the reasons for such police intervention and explain what it is and that the full information on this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52579	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, president of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52580	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We at the Club consider this to be a double precedent because points on the agenda are not being set up by the Institute of Interrupts, but by proposing a point on the agenda. The second precedent is that we, as a legislative authority, should, at the request of our colleague Pusic, enter into control of the executive authority, that means the police, that means abolishing the rule of law. Legislative authority and executive power are separate authorities, we cannot comment at this point on what the police are doing. I hope so, and I suppose it works by law. Based on what information I'm going to criticise the police, based on what I see on the portals now, I'm reading, I'm under arrest, and I see him here in the Assembly Halls. The council's not in jail yet, he's not arrested, he's still a free man. Based on half the information and disinformation from various portals, the Croatian Parliament cannot discuss and draw conclusions. If we take the debate today about what the police are doing, whose duty is to establish order and preserve the law, then we're destroying the rule of law. Then we are against any further debate, let the police do their job, if they are wrong, there are state institutions that will investigate it and that will submit appropriate requests for proceedings. The Croatian Parliament cannot condemn police actions because it is not its duty. Especially not on the basis of such incomplete and incorrect information. Let's respect the rule of law and let the rule of law do its job, let the Parliament do its job and let the bad political moves in the SDP City Assembly and the HNS this Parliament will not wash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52581	We have a correction by Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52582	Thank you, Mr. President. It is extremely incorrect that it is not the Parliament's duty to control the executive power. This is Parliament's first duty, Parliament's first duty is to have control over the executive government, and it was not required that anyone be convicted or not convicted precisely because we do not have full information except for the fact that there are very strong police forces in the centre of Zagreb, we asked that Minister Karamarko, who corresponds to this Parliament, and was elected by this Parliament to come and inform the Parliament just to avoid speaking on the basis of half the information or as Mr Hebrang said disinformation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52583	Thank you very much. There is a mutual surveillance which in this country has a harmonized effect, which is that these authorities are mutually supervised, etc. However, we cannot judge something about the specific problem of ad hoc. This is the case, not that the legislative authority has, of course, control over the executive authority, and that includes the Ministry of Interior, but not actively and ad hoc in certain cases. We can't get involved in that. So there is no doubt that there is this interdependence and mutual surveillance, but in this case we can't, we don't have enough elements to judge in a specific case. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have finished our scheduled agenda today and I am concluding the 18th session of the Croatian Parliament, wishing you a pleasant and successful holiday, with the hope that there will be no extraordinary session which we can never rule out, but I have no elements that we are already predicting. And if there isn't an extraordinary session that I don't think it will, then I'll see you in the second half of September this year, and that's why I wish you all a pleasant holiday and happy holidays. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin by asking questions to the government. Mr. Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52587	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Calmeta, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. In Istria bilingualism is part of everyday life. It belongs not only to the Italian culture, but the Istrian Croat members of other peoples actually consider it an integral part of the area. Without the Italian language culture as well as the Croatian language culture, Istria would be something else and not something where many want to live. That's why the people of Istria were particularly surprised by its southern part when they saw one morning that there were no more bilingual signposts on the first two-way route of the Istrian highway of Ipsilon in the south. I want to know, Mr. Minister, whether it's a violation of the law or if it's a big misunderstanding that doesn't require law enforcement, and the law is clear. The law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia makes it very clear that one whole series of towns and municipalities in Istria from Buje to Pula, Umag and Visinada actually have a bilingual name. That's what the law says, and that's what the Istrian statutes say. We do not understand the ministry's position, Mr. Minister, because we travel and see that from Slovenia to Italy, Switzerland, France in one part, Spain, in fact, highways are the first of bilingual inscriptions and not only on the hubs, and that is no problem. That's why we want to ask you, Mr. Minister, is this some kind of misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52588	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52589	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the MPs, Mr. Representative. Here's a lot I agree with you and allow me a few facts and one suggestion about it. First, I think we all agree that Croatia has very high standards when it comes to national minority rights and we are all really proud of that. Secondly, when it comes to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, he fully implemented himself as he writes there, and that is that all units of local self-government where there are more than a third of the members of national minorities to have the right to bilingualism and that is wherever it is, it is indeed carried out, even when it comes to traffic signs. In all units of local self-government, now that we're talking about Istria it's like that, so everywhere there are bilingual inscriptions where the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities says it should be. It's exactly what you say, in the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities, the official name for cities in Istria according to this law before, on the rights of national minorities, is Pula Paula and is now asking one question about which there are different interpretations, which is whether on the highway that passes and which can be a thousand miles long, whether it's worth it on the highway, on those green boards writing bilingualism or not. It's something that maybe we should sit down and discuss. But before I do, there's just one more thing to tell you. When it comes to Istrian ipilon on all knots and on all hubs, they have started to set up and place more than 150 signs of bilingual in a way that from all roads of state, county and local which eventually go towards or below highways are bilingual inscriptions. So, one question now arises whether on these green boards, too, large, which on the highway are either bilingual inscriptions or not, about this law you were talking about, about areas of cities, county and municipalities. I suggest, Mr. Representative, that even after this session and this week, we meet. I will seek the help of perhaps some other fellow ministers, administrations, colleagues Dropulic etc. And let me get this straight. As far as I'm concerned, and as far as we're concerned, we're here to enforce the law, and if we claim that's the case and that this applies to these blue tables, we're going to do what we have to do in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52590	Thank you. Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52591	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Of course, we don't expect it to write bilingually over a thousand kilometers, but in the area of Istria where it is bilingually and prescribed. It is also prescribed on the basis of statutes and international contracts and of course 1/3 as you said to the population. So there are three criteria. I thank you for the proposal, of course I accept it because I would not want that stock opened without such signs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52592	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mrs. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52593	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to ask Mrs. Prime Minister my question. The state's attorney's office has launched an investigation against Damir Polancec for privatisation, due to the way TLM was privatised. We now find out that you signed that decision exactly after a closed session of the government, without debate, so it is quite clear why there was no debate and unanimous vote. Who do you think should start an investigation against you and the entire cabinet of government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52594	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52595	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representative. Well, I'm surprised how you know what the DORH is investigating. Do you have any personal connections there or do you have any influence or are you a member of the DORH or USCOD? No one knows about it yet. What, in which case, in which the DORH is in charge, or the SCIENCE is conducting an investigation, is not known. What the media is writing is known. However, I would like to know on the basis of which information you claim to be. Yes, the government, as you saw from that document, discussed it. The decision I signed on behalf of the government that all members of the government were on, and then the Prime Minister made the decision, I signed it. I don't see what you're seeing in that decision is controversial and based on which indication or fact you're actually suggesting what you're suggesting. What I can tell you and repeat is that an independent state body such as the State's Attorney's Office will continue to have as far as the political framework created by the Government and certainly the majority in the Croatian Parliament is concerned, that the fight against corruption will continue until the last breath, regardless of the name and last name, whether it concerns people highly ranked or low-ranked by the SDP or any other party. Be assured of that. And what is certain, no one in Croatia will ever judge before the court again. He'll be tried in court, of course, when all investigations are complete. Everyone is innocent until a judicial verdict proves otherwise, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And no one else in Croatia will judge, judge, or accuse outside these bodies, but not conduct investigations behind the new bodies that I am talking about. Of course, I include the Ministry of the Interior or the police. Surely neither me nor the narrower or wider composition of the government will be judged by the court of the party. That's for sure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52596	Thank you. Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52597	So you asked me, you answered me by asking me what I think is controversial? The dispute is that the state is damaged by 600 million kunas after that decision, it is disputed that one person is sitting in prison and the other person is signing decisions, it is controversial that you have double criteria when it comes to SDP mayors and when it comes to the government. So, that's controversial. The fact is, what was hidden and what you personally signed came out. I'd just like to tell you that, in normal countries, for far less damage, you're giving resignations for moral reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52598	Thank you very much. Let's not judge. I asked at the very beginning. Let's not qualify without proof. We are neither an investigation nor a prosecution nor a court. Ask a question, we get an answer and we move on. Now the question will be asked by Mrs. Representative Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52599	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Prime Minister, the honourable members of the government. I ask my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Radovan Fuchs. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you know it, but last week there was a terrible precedent at a primary school in Međimurje whose founder is the town of Chakovec. The SDP mayor of the town of Čakovec, who openly advocated the person he wants elected as director, was also present during the primary school election. So my question is is whether it's a common practice or it's a rude violation of authority and precedent by imposing political will or even more precisely what I'm interested in whether it's an attempt at political corruption, do you have any knowledge of it and what can be done? And of course in elementary school, you learn the rules of decency, and this is at least rude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52600	Thank you. Mr. Minister Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52601	... Excuse me. [[Specially enabled.]] A memo yesterday came to the ministry asking for the ministry's consent on the appointment of the school's headmaster. We have indirect knowledge of what you point to, and I have to say here that the article is 118th and 119th. The Law on Education and Education provides for the school to be managed by the school board, as well as on proposals for appointment and resolution of directors. Representatives of local administrations and self-government, so school founders have out of nine members of their three representatives directly on the school board. Therefore, there is definitely no reason why a fourth person as a representative of the founders of a school would be present at the meetings of the school committee. It is certainly a precedent, for so far we have no idea that a mayor or mayor has made or influenced the decisions of the school boards in selecting the principal. The ministry's legal services will examine whether this is sufficient reason to deny consent to the director's election, i.e. request that the procedure be repeated. The school board, in its procedure, could define whether public or secret voting would vote on the election issues of the principal. But certainly only the presence of the mayor or the mayor in the election, and finally, if you want the minister in the election of the director, the director of some public institutions is a certain pressure on the members of the school board to just choose the person who is in the interest of individual heads of government. It's definitely a precedent, but the law didn't even provide for sanctions if this happened because no one had any idea that such a thing might happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52602	Thank you. Mrs. Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52603	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I also have a letter from the school board that they sent to me as representatives. I think it will come to your address, and they also say, so as citizens, that politicizing and imposing opinions on the members of the school board from any politician in this case, the mayor who is a member of the Social Democratic Party has never happened in any of the Međimurje schools, and this is also proof of the lack of respect for school as an educational institution where there is no place for politics. So no matter which party it comes from. But this is inadmissible. The mayor specifically said that, this is our candidate and he should be elected. We expect, of course, your actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52604	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelic will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52605	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question will be addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Shucker. Alignment and distribution ratio of income from cash compensation for the amount of energy mineral raw materials on land established for oil and condensate for 2010 amounting to 3.10% for local self-government. But this year, until today, INA has not paid a fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, nor has it provided an account. I note that we are all together aware of the current financial situation throughout the Republic of Croatia that is certainly making it difficult for INA to operate, but I must also point out that the financial resources that have fallen behind this year due to the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials cause congestion in the realisation of capital investment projects, the construction of municipal infrastructure that takes place in the area of municipalities that are eligible for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. So, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, I'm asking what you're going to do to help achieve the right of the municipalities in respect of the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in accordance with the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52606	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52607	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say something and generally about concessions. So this government decided to make order about concessions and set up a concession register. However, I'm going to make a public statement here. Many mayors and mayors and on several written letters do not want to deliver concession contracts that would have been entered into the register and that is what many today lecture on how the financing of local self-government units should look like, and even a city in which the president of the city community has not provided us with concession contracts. So, if we want to know the order, if we want to make a payment, if we want to know what fiscal options, how many units of local self-government can earn, they have to comply with the law, because this law has passed this High House, deliver a concession agreement based on that concession contract will get an identification number and, based on that, will be recorded in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance will deliver that number to the concessionary and the concessionaire will pay what needs to be paid. So, by 19 May, 332 contracts have arrived at the Ministry of Finance, and your information is correct, so 3 million and 609 thousand are based on gas, and that payment will come soon, so as soon as it is processed, it will be paid and paid to local self-government units. But it's not the only fee. Another somewhere around 19 million is a mining rental which is also not paid to local self-government units for exactly the same reason, that units of local self-government have fulfilled what is required under the law to deliver concessions and payments would start, according to information that I have these 19 million should be paid by the end of next week, and even by the basis of gas production it is estimated that local self-government units should receive between 25 and 30 million kuna. So when this record is made, you'll get the money, I repeat every concessionr, because it doesn't just give the state a concession. We have a case that the unit of local self-government, is obliged to deliver a concession contract that will be placed in the concession register, which will be apart from the amount of somewhere the concessionaries keep it as a business secret, to be publicly published, but I repeat some who teach us lessons like this and so on, we sent five, six applications a year, requests, however you will, did not want to deliver concession contracts. I think no matter who the mayor is, the mayor, the mayor, no one interferes with their independence, no one touches the units of local self-government, but if the law provides that they must deliver a concession contract they must deliver it. And that was why it was late. So I repeat with 19.5. we have 332 contracts, according to information that has been accepted by the services, prepared services from the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, payments will begin practically next week, and be sure they won't be late, I say the basic reason was because we literally had to ask the mayors and the mayors to deliver the contracts to us. However, this country has a final concession register. It took us a long time to establish. If we have to, we'll send one last warning to everyone, if we have to, we'll publicly publish the names of mayors and cities who haven't delivered the register to us. ... Mr. Vojko Obersnel. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52608	Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52609	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. So I believe that here's your answer going in this direction that those who weren't in order to function certainly take their job more seriously, and that they'll do better and better work and we won't get to the problems that we've had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52610	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52611	Thank you. It's a matter of Madam Prime Minister. When I was in the Croatian Parliament three years ago talking about corruption and... The octopus that brought all of Croatia back to life, many here in the government's ranks laughed. [[You don't understand.]] The fact that their laughter has disappeared from their faces is not a comfort, as the price of all Croatia's heist will be paid by ordinary citizens. The announced power-gathering is the best confirmation. And while it is at the centre of the public interest of TLM, I will return a little early at the time of designing a robbery model started in road construction and then applied in all areas of the economy. Of course, it's about the fast road Gagenica-Zadar2. In addition to several times collected works on the road itself, an illegal transaction amounting to 300 million kuna was carried out at the time for which Croatia's electricity industry completely irrationally and unnecessarily paid the trafostations to Croatian highways. The result is that taxpayers will have to pay twice the trafocell. Once through the unrealisticly high price of their construction, billions and 50 million kunas say sources, and the second time they will give an additional 300 million kuna through an increased electricity price. The criminal responsibility will be determined by the competent state authorities, who I believe are working on that case. We'll wait. My question is about the political sphere. Are you as Prime Minister familiar with this transaction, and you intend to make the case politically clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52612	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52613	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Representative. Well, I could, if it's up to me and the political will, then I can say very briefly and the government and I as Prime Minister will do and do everything possible, of course within our frameworks, so that we can continuously strengthen and create a political, favourable political framework, so that all institutions can do their job absolutely freely. Of course, in this regard, it is necessary when it comes to the fight against corruption, so truly to the last breath, that we should at least reach political agreement on this issue. So it is also important to support opposition political parties. I say that because we are often witnesses that they are all in principle to fight corruption, but when it comes to their doors they are opposed, or when it comes to the door of their party then they are opposed to it by all means. Then it's political persecution, then it's big stories, etc. And they're all pointing at each other. So I, Mr. Representative, stand up for it and it's my party's program and my government's program, so open the door wide, to ensure that the DORH does fully freely and independently as the Constitution and the law says its work, the BIAK also, but that the police conduct investigations in accordance with regulations, or laws. When this agreement is reached by the end, then we are absolutely open and when it comes to the cases you mention, you know that there are also members of the board of Croatian highways who have ended up being replaced by the Government's decision, etc., but when this is discussed in that way, and when it comes to the Daimler case, and when it comes to the purchase of fire trucks, and when it comes to the Mljet and all other cases of sale of any kind of resorts, etc., and when we all say together that some state bodies are doing their job, who is responsible, of course, who is responsible, if it ends in court, and who is innocent must protect it in all segments. Once we've agreed on that, it'll be much better. As for the government and the ruling coalition, we always call on anyone who wants to join us in the fight against corruption and crime, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52614	Thank you. Mr. Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52615	It means nothing. We will solve corruption in the 23rd century if we continue at this rate. Of course, everyone is equal before the law and the same rules apply to all parties, and we agree, however, I'm afraid not. This is proof that there is no political will, that you can't get rid of your patriarchs in a party. Your position is to change to keep everything the same and that's the way it is. But okay, let's just put that aside. I'd like to ask you a written answer to this question, and I'd like to ask you, if that's what it's like to at least press the new HAC administration to work on internal control orders. Because information says there's nothing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52616	Thank you. The question will be asked, next question, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52617	Dear Madam Prime Minister, in October 2008, the Croatian Parliament adopted a conclusion that the government agreed to report regularly to the Croatian Parliament each year, therefore with a special report on the state of the country. 2009 is behind us, very burdensome with many problems. As things stand, this won't be any easier. In 2009 on behalf of the Government you did not report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of the state in the country, today it is already half May 2010. My question is: Since the conclusion has been reached under Article. 111. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament when you intend to fulfil your obligation to the Croatian Parliament and why did you not do so in 2009? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52618	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52619	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I will take a look at that conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. I am the first of those, among those who have great respect for the Croatian Parliament because I believe that we answer to you, to answer to Croatian MPs and, of course, we must absolutely respect every decision of the Croatian Parliament. So, I'll look at it, I'll certainly answer you in writing, but what I think is also the fact that every day I submit a report to the Croatian public, on the current mornings absolutely safe, but also at every meeting of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Especially since we've been here, we've been implementing the programme of economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, every week we actually submit reports, but also through many laws, through many regulations, through many reports that come to the Croatian Parliament we submit reports on individual segments, i.e. the state in individual segments of Croatian society from economy to science, education and sports. But if it is as you say I am very prepared at any time of the day and night to come before this High House and submit a report in general on what was done in 2009, I would, of course, be happy to report on the time since I am at the head of the Government, given that much has been done, that many very difficult decisions have been made that have to be confirmed in Parliament as well. Of 2, unfortunately, the budget rebalance through which we had to do many restrictions. I'm sorry that we didn't have your support in this and specifically, Mr. MP, but despite all this, we're willing to do absolutely anything about it. As for the economic recovery programme, the completion of EU entry negotiations this year and also the fight against corruption. These are the three important pillars of the work of this government that I'm headed for. Therefore, I would very much like to see Mrs. Pusic smile, who I see with joy follows and greets, quite certainly. I'll do it, Mr. Representative. So, I very much respect your question and all MPs and MPs, I answer to you along with all members and members of the Government. And I will do as the Croatian Parliament commands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52620	Thank you. Mr. Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52621	Of course, I appreciate that in performing your day-to-day work, you communicate with the public in a way that you consider best, assuming that this is also the government's work report. However, this is a concrete conclusion on the state of affairs in the country. So it's not about the annual report, it's about the report that you're reporting on behalf of the government once a year about the state of the country. As the highest House, therefore, as a legislative representative body, we would certainly be interested in discussing all aspects of your view of the state, but so would you, if you wish to cooperate with the Croatian Parliament on such important issues that are ahead of us in the coming months, we must build this relationship bilaterally. In this sense, I expect not only that you will check from the end of October but that even before the adoption of the new Constitution, i.e. amendments and additions, you will report to the Croatian Parliament on the situation in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52622	Thank you. Before further notice. The chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic, called a meeting today at 2.30 p.m. at the "Janka Draskovic" hall. Let's move on to asking questions, it's Mrs. Mariana Petrir's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52623	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister. I ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Darko Milinovic. Dear Ministers of Government in Sisak-Moslavina County often call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to invest nothing in Sisak-Moslavina County despite the fact that this year alone, 630 million kuna is invested in the construction of the Zagreb-Sisak highway and that 118m euros have been invested in the modernisation of the INE refinery in Sisak, which we can say is still capital projects. Recently, the mayor Lovric very uglyly hit the town of Sisak, of course for daily-political purposes, and said that children in Sisak are dying without the government doing anything. And then, of course, a week later, in her good old manner, she changed the board, so I'm curious about the Minister what's really true? What have you done so far to determine whether the improvement of the citizens of Sisak has anything to do with air pollution and how much has been invested in the Sisak-Moslavina County in the health and social care system since you've been a minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52624	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52625	I appreciate the question. The usual behavior of your mayor with state resources. Edit the gynecology department so you don't have the decency to invite anyone from the ministry or anyone from the ruling coalition, and I've seen a lot of opposition people. But I guess that's the usual way of her behavior. You are also a witness that we have actually formed an expert commission that has been extended to European Union experts to get as relevant as possible opinion as to whether air pollution is related to these diseases as mentioned. The Croatian Institute of Public Health has also provided a review of the mortality database, to determine the mortality rate and comparisons of Sisak with 10 other cities in the Republic of Croatia, and is preparing to conduct a case-control study to see the impact of air loss on the occurrence of mentioned diseases in the town of Sisak, and I think tomorrow the results will be presented to the Committee. As for investments, you mentioned, you asked for investment from the health ministry, when Mrs Lovric was influential at national level then the General Hospital in Sisak received 200 million kuna less than she has now received through restrictions in these two years. So you heard 200 million kunas well. As for investments only in the last two years, 32 million kuna has been invested through decentralised funds during the difficult year of recession, 8 and 9. 43 million kuna, up to now this year, is projected 23 million kuna, and new devices in Sisak hospital amounting to 3.2 million kuna. So these are all the funds invested during the term of office of this coalition government, and during this year these 23 million kunas. I will mention, I have time, here is the Centre for Social Care Petrinja, at the end of this month a technical review of 5 million and 300, the Centre for Social Care Novska is expected in June this year to deliver 6,4 million kuna equipment, the Rehabilitation Centre Komarevo so 6 million and 200 thousand kuna, construction works completed in 2009, and I mentioned... out of 3.2 million kuna. When we open these Centres, we'll be above, acting above your mayor, and we'll invite her to the opening of these centers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52626	Thank you. Mrs. Mariana Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52627	I thank the ministers for these answers. Of course, I welcome the investment of the Ministry of Health and Social Care in increasing the health standard in Sisak-Moslavina County, thank you for this opportunity and for increasing the limit for the special hospital in Popovaca, I think it was precisely the biggest limit you've given to a hospital, and I also welcome the decision to conduct an epidemiological study for the city of Sisak, which determines the causes of citizens' illness, and I am pleased that you have taken this problem seriously and approached the solution that many ministers have closed their eyes before you. However, I am sorry and must say, I am sorry that, despite the promises, the county government has formed an oncology department at the Sisak County Hospital, as well as a special respiratory hospital in Petrinja, in order to bring health care to the citizens as they need it. But that's why they hurt the county, and the town of Sisak with the lies and the language of the street that they're using, unfortunately, did damage and made a case, and the citizens of our county suffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52628	Thank you very much. He will ask a question, Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52629	Mr. President, all of you. I'm asking the question of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Ivan Shimonovic. Here these days, everyone is talking about fighting corruption, and also about the need for non-depreciation of converted corruption, and I agree with that, and I would therefore be referring to a matter of one attempt at corruption six years ago, in my 10th electoral unit, because as far as I know, corruption is a crime, and an attempt to commit a crime is a crime. So about 6 years ago, SDP's head of the municipality of Mljet sold state land of 225 thousand 837 square meters, about 40 football fields, for about 12 euros per meter to a square-square investor, so I repeat, he sold a foreign country, a state-owned one. They would say to our brother, at least 10 times the market price. Which is interesting in the course of the public tender, the County State Attorney's Office of Dubrovnik-Neretva County warned the SDP's chief to suspend the sale of invalid land. The captain didn't listen, the land was sold. Of course, the County State Attorney's Office turned to legal proceedings and after a final ruling, the land was registered as state land because it couldn't have been otherwise. It's been clear to everyone since the beginning, except for that SDP chief. And what he did earlier as a hellish plan, probably in cooperation with someone from the landowner, is he sued everything, sued those who aren't owners or in some other cases those who are dead and, of course, don't respond and then because of the failure to sign up the land and then go for sale, the old scheme. Mr. Minister, thank God the country has kept land from trying to look conscious of the robbery, so there's no harm to it except court costs. I am interested in whether the State Attorney's Office has charged these costs, whether it will fall on the burden of the municipality and taxpayers, or whether there is any investigation or criminal proceedings against the perpetrator of the crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52630	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52631	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. In response to this question, I have to make sure that more litigation is brought on Mljet, and therefore, in order not to have an illegal influence on the court, I will only quote the opinion of the State Attorney's Office on this case. On 16 October, the Republic of Croatia became the owner of all forest areas in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which were presently located in the so-called so-called Social property. It naturally became the owner of forest land on Mljet. However, the municipal court in Dubrovnik is wrongly based on the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to settle disputes on the rights of municipalities, counties and cities allowed the registration of property rights under the name of the municipality of Mljet. Several similar litigation proceedings are under way under the lawsuits of the Republic of Croatia against the Municipality of Mljet and those in favour of which the municipality of Mljet illegally disposes of these properties. In one of these cases, the Supreme Court rejected the audit and confirmed a final verdict establishing the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. As you said, it is true, although the Municipality of Mljet has been warned, it has unlawfully dispose of individual properties in favour of third parties, but the State's Attorney General has not found the elements of the crime in concrete cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52632	Thank you. Mr. Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52633	Thank you very much. I respect the decisions of all state institutions. I'm satisfied with your answer, but the question is whether there is not a single crime in everything is obvious, but that is the attitude. Please be nice, it is interesting after this operation the SDP rewarded its chief because of the president of a small party organisation the job of the president of the party organisation of the Dubrova-Neretva County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52634	It's Mr. Representative Davor Huška's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52635	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam President of the Croatian Government, members and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to ask the Minister of Justice Mr. Ivan Shimonovic. It is known that the mayor of Djakova and our colleague, Zoran Vinkovic, used the official car, the official driver and charged the costs of the trip to Zagreb, to the City of Đakova, while also charging travel expenses from the Croatian Parliament, thus providing it with illegally 12 thousand 500 kuna. It's not big money because my colleague Vinkovic isn't too often in the Parliament. I ask the question to Mr. Minister, where did the criminal proceedings against Djakova Mayor Zoran Vinkovic come to the assembly of the illegal charge of travel expenses of $12,000?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52636	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52637	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. According to the State's Attorney's Office, the removal of immunity for the initiation of the criminal proceedings for the criminal offence referred to in Article 344 has been requested and implemented in relation to Mayor Vinkovic. Penalty law, fraud in service. Immunity has been removed but no indictment has been filed. This response may work, but Article 231. The law on criminal proceedings determines that the investigation is secret and does not allow the release to the public of the contents of the evidence actions carried out prior to the confirmation of the indictment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52638	Thank you. Mr. Hushka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52639	Thank you. I hope we have information soon on further activity. I wanted to say that this is only one of the ways in which individual representatives of the SDP seek to pay the burden of the cities from which they come and to the burden of the Croatian Parliament provide illegal benefits. A good example is both fellow MP and Mayor of Požega Zdravko Ronko. He acts as mayor as a volunteer in Požega, receiving salary at the Croatian Parliament. Although Požega is a city larger than 10,000 inhabitants, and the mayor must be a professional under the law, here is the violation of the law. And as a volunteer, you prescribed a fee on the burden of the city of Požega of 15 thousand kuna per month, i.e. 8 thousand 500 kuna per hand. Furthermore, to his advisors a little less compensation. The cost of times in the Parliament also uses the burden of the city of Požega, so this valuable volunteer city of Požeg, which he loves immensely, costs more than 50,000 kuna. And put all this nicely on the site of the town of Požega that all residents of the town of Požega and the lusts can see it. I hope that the judiciary will deal with this case soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52640	Thank you. In response, you asked another question. So, you should stick to this first question. They'll ask Mrs. Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52641	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Croatian Government, honourable ministers and ministers. I refer the question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Darko Milinovic. Mr. Minister, this government is conducting a decisive fight to prevent corruption and prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties in which it has the full support of all of us in the Croatian Parliament, but also in the Croatian public. In this regard, it is known that the wife of Parliament's representative Miranda Mrsic is the owner of the wholesaler, which has an exclusive contract to sell the expensive medicine on the Croatian market. Can you answer me, is this about a conflict of interest, because her husband is a parliamentary representative and a member of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Care?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52642	Mr. Vice President Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52643	Dear Parliamentarian Bilic-Vardic, a very difficult question. I know if you were safe in a conflict of interest, if it were your husband or my wife, then it would be a pure conflict of interest. But when you asked me that, I'll tell you a few facts about it. Several years ago, the treatment of children with rare diseases, i.e. these purchases of these medicines, was paid by the Croatian Health Insurance Office for 20 million kunas, so almost 3 million euros. When did the problem arise, when did the esteemed representative you mentioned and the SDP proceed with all the means available to bring down the health system reform? Then when we announced a public tender that SDP didn't want then, then when they introduced a... payment system, when they introduced drug reference prices, so the company's profits fell by a million euros. But for that million euros, we went through some other rights. Well, here's the number 93, thank you very much, and I'm proud to have you look out for medical fertilization. 93 women over the age of 40, allow me to respond to the MPs. At the time of the SDP, the SDP said, you who are over 40 years old, we will not pay you for the medical fertilization procedures. If you have money, you go, if you don't go. And we changed that in this law, and even these 93 women have successful numbering results, somewhere around 10% of these women have managed to make their life's dream come true under the new law, so we transferred those million euros to these 93 women. Thank you so much for putting that number on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52644	Ms. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52645	I thank Mr. Secretary, and I fully agree with your answer. When Mr. from the Social-Democratic Party, Mr. Mrsic, would not also be a member of the Croatian Association of Patients with Rare Diseases, is it morally necessary for the wife to have a company dealing with the purchase of expensive or expensive medicines. And if the information is also correct that on behalf of the Association for Treatment on the burden of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia is brought by patients outside Croatia, I ask you ministers and all of us here, if this is not a cover of humanity about obtaining profits or extra profits. And Ministers, if I may agree with you, or a little difference, this 93 reminds me of firefighters and Daimler.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52646	He's going to ask Mr. Representative Milivo Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52647	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Prime Minister, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Minister of Finance. These days we are reading about the responsibilities of certain European countries and major monetary disturbances on the European market. The question is what is Croatia's responsibility compared to European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52648	Here you go, Mr. Vice President Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52649	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After yesterday's ECOFIN meeting, I think what we're about to say here today is even more important and important. What I would like to say is also for the sake of you respected gentlemen representatives and the Croatian public, all the information I will speak is officially published by the Croatian National Bank. I think that in terms of financial Europe shaking, when a variety of ways are sought to help Greece which is in the biggest crisis, when several other countries are in crisis, when the euro is in the situation in which it is, when the financial market in Europe is as it is, I don't think anyone in Croatia can allow political luxury to distort data with political statements. Therefore, I repeat, all the data that I am about to say are officially published data from the Croatian National Bank, for the simple reason that when we all talk about using official data, and not for political purposes, we are all going to feel this in principle, because the situation today on the financial market is what it is, and if the state gets a higher interest rate for loans for a few tenths, we will all feel it in principle, therefore, the borrowing of all is measured. Therefore, what is the share of public debt in the gross domestic product as regards the Member States of the European Union. 63.4% of gross domestic product. As for Greece, which is in the worst situation, it is 101.1%. Until last year, Croatia had a share of public debt of 28.9%, last year the share of public debt in the gross domestic product is 35.4%. Now that someone doesn't say some speech about 50%, yes, but when you add all those guarantees that the state has issued most of these guarantees will be returned neatly. And that's the data, I repeat, which is official, which is publicized and is not good that for various political reasons we play with data because look, depending on which position and looks from the position and duty it behaves, and not from the position of name and last name. And normally, the financial market listens to that and reacts that way. As for the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, so what is the share of the state, what is the share of the other institutions, and then you will see when we talk about it, the state is in debt 44 billion. Yes, the state is in charge, but when we talk about the state, then I was talking about public debt and what part of the state is in that 44 billion. He's somewhere around 5:00, something else billions, so somewhere around 11%. Business banks account for 24%, foreign direct investment is 16.5% and all other sectors account for 47.9% of this 44 billion. And so it's a debt of the state, but we need to figure out what we've made the decision because the decision on borrowing makes this high house when it adopts the budget and when it adopts the State Budget Act, and it also makes a decision which is the level of borrowing in that year. The question also arises when we speak, normally when you have this percentage of the public debt relative to the gross domestic product that you have an exceptional external vulnerability. However, you also need to see what structure these people are that are, in fact, companies that are in charge and how risky the loan is. So, if we say that 47.9% are other sectors, then the question is, let's take these biggest ones, starting from infrastructure projects to projects done by the largest state-owned companies, the largest company in Croatia, not state-owned companies, whether these investments could be carried out if it wasn't for this debt. So these are facts that we simply cannot escape from. We also have nothing to do with how much public debt was in 2003, what is today for the simple reason that it is already such a time range that it is even funny to compare it. I think we will, Mr. Stazic, so you can laugh all you want, but let me say this second part of the sentence and you won't laugh. If this is to be compared then a methodology should be established by the basis of the comparison to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52650	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52651	However, only one more sentence should be known, if Mr. President can, that no more significant privatisation has been carried out over the past six years, and in the period until 2003 and the money from the sale of the Bank of Commerce and the money from the sale of the HT control package has been settled on the state budget and have therefore reduced the need for borrowing. So I'm saying, it's not questionable given the situation and everything that's going on in Europe right now, to ball and play with false data and statements. After all, Croatia's assessment was given by all relevant international financial institutions, and all the figures I spoke today were published by the Croatian National Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52652	Thank you. Mr. Millyov Schwartz, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52653	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I think it's good that the public heard directly from you today the answer to my question and also all potential investors so that certain thesis they're trying to impose, which is not in line with what you've answered wouldn't come to fertile soil and I'm sure they won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52654	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52655	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the government. I'm asking Mr. Minister Calmetti. So, after your decision to suspend or abolish traffic on about 130 km of railway network in the Republic of Croatia, including the Pleternica railway - Najsice citizens and Najsica and Pleternica, but also violence such as Zarilac, Ciglenik, Knesci, Latinovac, Caglin, Ljeskovica, Lončica, Zoljan are bitter with your decision. In this move, which connects the western part of Osijek-Baranja County and the Požega-Slavon County, so the railway track is located in Najsica so in Zoljan, there are three quarrys and about 5 to 6000 inhabitants to whom this railway was served, and we know how it served in wartime and that it was the vessels of the housewives of Slavonia. So I'm asking you why you've made such a decision to suspend or suspend the traffic on this track as you say, and we've temporarily seen it on the Sisak-Glin track that's been going on for 20 years. temporary measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52656	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52657	Your Honor, I have not made the decision to suspend the temporary traffic on those tracks, although I support such a decision. But it wasn't me, it was brought in for a whole series of reasons, which I'm going to explain to you now. I wish it hadn't happened the same way you did, and we'll do everything we can to get those stocks reconstructed as soon as possible on those tracks. Not this year, because there's no money for it. We'll try to reconstruct some of the shares by next year and reconstruct them in order to get the traffic back. So, first of all, I'd like to say that what you said was not lifted. The railroad can only end this honorable high house. It is based on measurements that have shown that these stock lines are in a very poor state and dangerous for transport, HZ infrastructure management has made such a decision to suspend traffic temporarily. But a substitute, a substitute has been established immediately, so that these lines are not driven by passengers by train but are driven by a bus at the same conditions, at the same prices and with all the benefits that were also valid for Croatian railways. So, as far as the passengers are concerned, their traffic has not been questioned. Second, as regards the load on the Našice railway section – The Pleternica was one to three trains a year. So, maybe in the year of the load, there's no cargo at all. So, one or three trains a year on that stock, and on these other shares such as Sirac – Celic or I don't know Martin Brod – Knin there were some. There were no passengers at all on Martin Ship's stock, only a burden. Secondly, if we take into account the costs of abolishing these three railways, they amount to about 35 million kuna at year level, and the revenues obtained from these three railways are about 3 million kuna. So, one complete inferno of those stripes. But that's not why I repeat it, that's not why traffic on those tracks has been temporarily stopped. The reason is the one I said before, which is primarily the safety of the reconstruction. Because the tracks on those stocks are over 90 years old, I don't know 90 or more years. It is therefore a systematic failure to invest in these railways. What I can tell you and what I told you at the beginning, now at the end and again this year the money for the reconstruction of these shares of the railway is gone but we will do everything to make those shares that have been abolished the reconstruction next year and to return traffic to those tracks as it has been until recently. And as for some other railways, this one, the Zagorje railway that was abolished nine or ten years ago, and I've heard it somewhere, has not been established until today. Transport was established for only one reason, because it is a dispute with colleagues from Slovenia, because the railway is passing a little through Slovenia, a little through Croatian territory. Here, that's what I can answer to your question today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52658	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52659	Turns out, according to your statement, that the track is inert, invalid, or unnecessary. You said both. Namely, what railroad is rentable in the Republic of Croatia if you can answer me? And how many Croatian states and citizens invest in Croatian railways without this railway ever actually coming up. Slavonia won't make the turn, but the tunnel painting is done regularly. Furthermore, it is not true that the railway is invalid, because the measuring cart of the Croatian railways at the end of March, so they measured and made an insight into the condition of the Pleternica – Najsice railway line and determined that at a speed of 70 km/h there are only 3 places with a minor error. Therefore, if the problem of the ministry is to remove these three minor mistakes and if there is no money for it, we have already learned about it in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52660	Thank you. The question will be asked by Ms. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52661	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care. Mr. Milinović, by abolishing the hospitals in Zagreb, you said that on the salaries of the director and their assistants you would receive a 13-and-a-half million kuna savings. However, Mr. Minister, it is simply not true because their salaries are not abolished, but only additions to the functions of directors and assistants. In fact, the savings will be around 852000 kuna. My question is, Mr. Minister, until when do you intend to deceive the Croatian public with incorrect data and demagogy?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52662	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52663	The best answer would be to smile and sit down. That would be the best answer. So, savings. First, let's see who spreads demagogue and lies. I said not to save on directors, but to save on administrations. Let me teach you a little bit, I'll use it since it's a doctor, but you don't seem to know much about hospital administrations. Unfortunately. What is involved in this broad circle of savings only to that extent? And otherwise, at an annual level not 13 million kunas, but 318.3 million kunas when the system is fully functioning. For you, here's a pardon for my expression, your Parliament representative Ostojić is, I'm sorry, in this House of the High on this expression, 20 million kuna, for us is a great thousand kuna. So, today in Zagreb hospitals you have 17 principals, and you've only talked about them. You have over 60 assistants. You have about 200 members of the supervisory board, or expert councils. So when we rationalize all this from 17 to 4 hospitals, it was, if everyone came out of the system, and don't deceive the Croatian public, don't misinformed, I said very clearly in my presentation at the Hypo Centre, there were thousands of people, which you didn't come in and you would hear, and I invited you, if you all got out of the system then it would be 13 million kuna, and I said at that presentation that most of them would stay in the system, and that it would be somewhere around 7 million kuna. So stop spreading misinformation, demagogy and what I've told you the truth. So in the hospital administration are directors, chief nurse, chiefs of polyclinics, clinics, members of the boards of 152, assistants of various kinds, and hospitals are not abolished. You may mind, I have today a meeting of the diabetic patient association that opposes the merger of the Wolf of Vrhovec and Mercury. Their standard of health services will be higher, only there won't be directors, there'll be one director at a hospital that's 2 meters away, 10 meters away from each other. So don't deceive the Croatian public, I've made it very clear, come by which lecture on reform, listen, so maybe you'll unwittingly spread those misinformations, maybe you don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52664	Mrs. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52665	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you really have nothing to teach me, because on the unnecessary supply of vaccines against swine flu, you've damaged the health budget for 15 million kunas, which means that all hospital administrations could have worked 18 more years to spend the money you once spent on the wrong, bad decision in one day. Because of the same thing, your colleague in Bulgaria had to step down from the post of minister. And this number 93, I see that you understand what this number means, but because of the Croatian public, I will say that this is the number of children born less in Croatia last year because of your restrictive law. This number 93 is proof of how constantly you deceive the Croatian public with incorrect data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52666	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic will ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52667	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. In fact, the media reported that Mladen Barisic was setting up jobs for his FIMImedia friend in state-owned companies. When it was discovered, you replaced him from the location of the HDZ treasurer. Interesting. It's not even good for HDZ, but it's still good for the head of customs. Is it because Barisic has the original HDZ mandate in the House, so you are afraid to change him from coming to you and endangering most of you, or is he now working for you what he used to do for Sanader?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52668	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52669	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam representative, your question is very clear and I will answer it very clearly. Why has anyone, with any duty in the Croatian Democratic Community, been removed, I have no reason nor any legal nor moral nor any other obligation to account for you in the Croatian Parliament, because what we do in the Croatian Democratic Community we do not have to do to you, I repeat once again, I said that the court of the party will not judge us, I do not have to account. That's what we said within our party, and within the HDZ presidency, and we're not going to ask you why you did anything with e.g. Milan Bandic, etc., etc. This is absolutely none of our business, why you've been making the city council as SDP's majority decision, for example, on Flower Square, and today you've given up everything today, etc. We don't care, that's your problem. Take care of it in Ibler Square. Therefore, I am here as Prime Minister and I have the sole authority to speak as Prime Minister, not as party president. So, when and in any case, no matter who is called or whether anyone belongs to the SDP, the Social Democratic Party or the HNS or any other party in the Republic of Croatia, we will absolutely as... to support an investigation, and, of course, to be completed if these bodies, such as the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK, are, of course, determined by the police and if this ends in a court of law and ends in a court of law. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, you will not, nor can you, nor can you encourage competent state bodies, nor can you encourage the DORH, nor the BOOK, nor do you review them, or control them, or direct whom they will investigate, and whom they will not. This is what they do under the law, and I will fight with all my colleagues and colleagues sitting here to make it so and that no party, no party in Croatia can put any pressure on independent bodies, regardless of who was or who was spoken of. And I hope one day you will support it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52670	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52671	That's right, Madam Prime Minister, no party but HDZ. The attitude towards Barisic really illustrates your struggle with corruption. It only goes to that border that does not endanger the interests of HDZ or your personal interests. So that's how your famous zero tolerance to corruption turned into a murky tolerance for those you fear or serve.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52672	The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52673	Thank you, Mr. President. A question for Prime Minister Kosor. Skegri's 90s policy has been remembered among citizens for bringing poverty to workers and enormous enriching, the wealth of a small number of people, so-called. tycoon. She remained remembered for the idea of 200 wealthy families and people as cattle of tiny teeth. Is the reduction of the income tax rate from 45% to 40% for those with the highest incomes, Madam Prime Minister, a return to that policy?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52674	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52675	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. So, I'm very pleased to mention one of the measures of the government's economic recovery programme. Well, your other colleagues didn't give me a chance to talk about it, thank you for that opportunity. I'm really grateful. As you know, we will make this decision on changing the income tax system where we go to 3 feet, where we are reducing, etc., we will allow about a million and a half Croatian citizens to have higher salaries since 01 July, i.e. higher incomes. Thank you for the opportunity to finally say it in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, it is a decision that goes parallel with the decision to abolish the first rate of the special tax as of July 01, too, so it should, of course, be put in the same context. And what is very important, what I mean to say, thank you for the opportunity that you gave me to say, thanks to all the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had understanding, they knew that the opportunities in July last year were so difficult that we had to make a very difficult decision together with you, namely with most of you in the Croatian Parliament, about introducing a special tax. The decision ends at the first rate, I repeat, on July 1st, for November 2nd. Although the law adopted in the Croatian Parliament says the Special Tax Act is valid by the end of this year. So, two months. Before the end of the year, we will fully abolish the special tax, and I repeat on the 1st of July, the first to include the largest number of people in the Republic of Croatia. So, with the introduction of this new system into income tax from July 1st, and it's good to be able to say that in this House, most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so a million-and-a-half almost people, will have bigger revenues. They'll be able to relax more, I believe, live and be able to start planning their vacation, which is probably because of the crisis, because of the fear of the future, and they couldn't do it. Although on the other hand, as you know, savings in banks have grown. This has shown that people are afraid, that they are in fear of the future which I understand very well, and that here is what should be said and that the number of unemployed is reduced in the Republic of Croatia. The same thing has happened since the last current morning, so it's certainly not about how some people want to say just some seasonal employment. The first results of our measures are also shown, but as you can see, exports are increasing, so by 3%. It's not a particularly large number, but it's an important sign in which we're heading, while imports have been reduced by 11.8%, Mr. Representative. I am sure that you are pleased and I am sure that you will give support from all your strength to the programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where one of the measures and this system is, that is, an arrangement in the income tax system. Thank you very much for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52676	Thank you. Mr. Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52677	You think miracles happen in this country, as you say, will be very relaxed citizens. Especially workers with minimum income because they will receive 50 kunas of higher salary, but therefore workers with average salaries will get 400 kn less, but that is why rich people with more than 22 thousand kuna salaries will benefit well from this relaxing reform of yours. Their wages will rise by three thousand kuna. So you're cutting their richest taxes to make them richer and richer. Which just shows that your concern for workers is actually dishonest and I have to say very hypocritical because you're removing health benefits and eliminating housing relief. ... Let's warn this amateur theater from HDZ to stop playing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you take more than you give, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52678	Thank you. Most of us are professionals. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52679	Thank you very much. To Minister Mlakar. Well, Mr. Minister, I certainly won't ask you anything about the corruption of buying fire trucks from Daimler because I see that the SDP colleagues have a call number on the badges for the firefighters, maybe they'll tell them themselves which of them is corrupt. But I'm going to ask you something else that's been quite up-to-date lately, which is that part of the opposition led by the SDP publicly politicises the honesty of 11th electorate voters, especially in BiH space. They suggest that in the 11th electoral unit, he is wronged in voting stations with the number of votes, i.e., he alluded first and foremost to Croats in BiH that they cheat to bring votes to HDZ. So I would like to ask you about your knowledge of such offensive accusations against Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, or from the 11th electoral unit, especially in BiH? And can voters from that electoral unit cheat to vote in two states?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52680	Thank you. Minister Davorin Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52681	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I thank you for asking because it is true that no matter how many times we have wanted to spread the state in the voters' lists, every time again, it is auctioned by figures that are neither accurate nor checked, nor have ever been shown as the number of potential voters. In short, I'll try to repeat what we've already said several times. The list of voters is an official record that is kept daily and any changes in the list of voters are entered on the basis of other official records. It is a register of citizenship, residence records and records of travel documents issued, and that record is important because of all those voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. Regardless of the criticism we often hear, this record contains about 400 thousand people. So these are citizens of the Republic of Croatia who appear as voters in each election, and do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. In view of this record, lists of voters are drawn up and these lists of voters are verifiable as any other list concluded 14 days before each election by the national authorities. Therefore, throughout the year, at any time each of the people with the right to vote can check whether they are on the voters' list. He should be on the list of voters where his registered residence is. Whether a mistake can happen and what is most often said that they voted in the election of dead people, I must say that not only is the control of the marriage process just a list of voters, but all the bodies that conduct the elections are also. So, election committees, election committees and the State Election Commission. And in the last presidential elections that we've held, we haven't had a single objection from the official authorities to the election process, which means, if by any mistake or by any chance by a person who's in the meantime, while being listed as voters, and it can happen in those last 14 days, she dies, no one will be able to vote instead, because in order for her to vote, she has to bring identification papers, she needs to be checked if she's in the voters' list. Only then does he receive electoral election material and can he approach the very act of voting. What is the problem, and the problem is all countries and is not an exclusive problem only of the Republic of Croatia is the fact that the states in which Croatian voters live are not obliged by official means to deliver the bodies of the Republic of Croatia abroad, diplomatic and consular representations of the notice of the fact of death. It means that a Croatian citizen living abroad may not be obliged to notify our diplomatic representation so that we, in the record of such voters, can delete it from the record. No matter who, I repeat, no one will be able to vote in the elections instead, because to do so, it must go beyond the control of the electoral bodies, so the election committees, which will later verify the legality of the proceedings. Finally, I would point out that the limited OSCE mission, which was in control of the elections in the Republic of Croatia, rated the work of all the bodies that conducted the elections and the State Election Commission and all the electoral committees, and then the Ministry of Administration for the voter census, which was ultimately their written report at the end and confirmed when she completed her election observation mission in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52682	Thank you. Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52683	Thank you very much, Minister for your reply. In fact, I had no doubt at any time in the honesty of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croats outside the Republic of Croatia voting in the 11th constituency. So this is what you have now confirmed that it is obviously an attempt to deceive the public and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so that the opposition headed by the Social Democratic Party would justify its attempt to deny access to polling stations, especially Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think it is best seen through the pressure on the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in a part where they insist that most of the polling stations be abolished and thus prevents the vote of many Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, means to Croats from the 11th constituency. But I don't think... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52684	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52685	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Dr Radovan Fuchs. Dear Ministers, in the town of Bjelovar, there is a student home capacity of 162 users, which because of its age and because of the standards that are in it today are completely unconditional. The home is provided for 162 users, and it is unconditional for both rooms and for hygienic and technical conditions, especially as regards the number of bathrooms, the number of sanitary knots. The result of this finding was the discussion and agreement of the Ministry of Science, the town of Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogor County on the need to build a new student home. We have found that a new dormitory is needed, the construction of a new home in Bjelovar and we have institutionalized it in a way that the Ministry of Science, the town of Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogor County signed an agreement in the second half of 2009 on the concept of initial million kuna funds to build a home, and the town of Bjelovar carried out the previous part of the work. Secured an attractive construction location, designed projects, paid the necessary contributions and we have a powerful building permit. I must say, with the value of the plot, the value of the land, the city of Bjelovar has invested 8 million kuna. There was a crisis that was completely clear, completely obvious, and no one expected this millions of kuna transfers from the Ministry of Science to go at that time. So, in 2009, it didn't happen, in 2010, for the very clear and objective reasons we respect, it didn't happen and it didn't join the signing of the contest on the selection of contractors. My question to the respected ministers is whether the Ministry of Science remains in line with the need to build this student home for the next financial year 2011 with the participants of the town of Bjelovar, Bjelovar-Bilogor County, according to the model that we are building this phase, so in stages in stages, the weather is somewhat slower, but financially more acceptable?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52686	Thank you. Please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52687	... There is, so I'd like to ask you for an answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52688	Thank you. Mr. Minister Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52689	Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, Your Honor. So you basically almost answered the question you asked yourself. Definitely the ministry doesn't give up what it promised. We have no doubts about the need to build a new student home which can, of course, be used for the accommodation of students as part of the course takes place, higher education takes place in the town of Bjelovar, so we have the principle in some other dormitories throughout Croatia where, unless it is filled with students, the remaining places with students are filled. The ministry is very supportive of this and we will do everything to ensure this necessary part of the Ministry's participation for the next financial year, for understandable reasons we could not realize this this year. This year we haven't been able to open new investments but we've already focused on the end of the investments that are under way but the deal is definitely staying and I hope that we can pull it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52690	Thank you, Mr. Korošec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52691	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I am extremely pleased with your answer and in response I want to repeat again. The town of Bjelovar develops with vocational and general secondary schools, higher education studies, we have a technical school, university studies, today in Bjelovar we have 1200 students, and in Bjelovar there are students and people from all over Croatia come. Your answer gives hope that we will continue this development to please all citizens of the city of Bjelovar but also wider, and Bjelovar-Bilogor County and this environment that is around us. Thank you very much. I am extremely pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52692	Thank you. Mr. Gary Cappelly will ask you a question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52693	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I was asked to raise the issue on the basis of the National Council president's move to monitor the implementation of the corruption control strategy, Mr Zeljko Jovanovic, who often says in his remarks the public has double criteria for the transparent moral setting. So, based on this, I was asked to ask Minister Davorin Mlakar, and it is known that against the Mayor of Rijeka Mr. Vojko Obersnel, a report has been filed because he has affected the companies of the Rijeka Market, damaged the city budget, and thus directly to the citizens of Rijeka no less than 80 million kuna. Although he tries to present himself in public as the greatest asset protector of Rijeka, he turns out to be more concerned about the property of a company owned by a party colleague and friends. This is evident from the fact that he signed a new concession contract as mayor of Rijeka in 2007 and continued to favour his SDP tycoon. It is interesting that the same contract continues to account for only 1/3 of the city space that this company is really using and which it continues to rent at a far higher price, the contract is still in force today and has not been broken so far. That it is true it was confirmed by the Mayor of Rijeka because he filed a complaint against the company. So he extended the contract first and then filed a complaint. He acknowledged that there are irregularities in the business of Rijeka and the city market but the interesting contract was not broken, which was the mayor's first duty to protect the property and incomes of the city. So, I remind the public of double standards, transparency, morality. Well, my question is heading towards how to protect citizens from the self-will of some mayors, how to protect the property of citizens, how to end such conjecture as it is in the case of Rijeka markets that continue to last. So here's the answer to this question from Mr. Minister Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52694	Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52695	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, I will answer you only to the part that has to do with the responsibility of the Ministry of Administration and regarding part of your question, so that all the heads of the Executive Authority of the municipalities, cities and counties are obliged to observe the Law between others and the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, as they perform their function because of the amendments to the Law, or the Law of last year, which has been elected by the Heads of the Executive Authority in direct elections, they no longer have the obligation and responsibility to the representative body, as previously established by our regulations, already their responsibility is determined only by testing in the direct elections, except in some of the law envisaged cases. You said that the proceedings against the mayor of Rijeka were initiated, I cannot talk about either the elements or the reasons for the initiation of the procedure, I can only say about the conditions laid down in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government if his mandate was to be brought into question or if he should cease under the law. This is one of the reasons only in the event that a final court ruling would be condemned and he would be given the unconditional sentence of prison for more than a month. Until then, until such a thing happens, there are no conditions under the law to stop the mayor's mandate. All the other question is possibly his assessment, his responsibilities but this is the only reason he would be related to your question, only by a final court ruling with such a qualification and such a verdict could, by force of the law, cease his term of office, and then the representative body should inform the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 8 days of the fact that early elections for his replacement should be called.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52696	Thank you. Mr. Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52697	Dear Ministers, thank you for your response, I will continue to insist on the words given by the president of the National Council, which is public, double standards, transparency, resignations, morals. Well, I think that's enough to resign as president of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52698	Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat will ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52699	Thank you very much. I'm referring my question to the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Byce. Mr. Minister, as you know one of the main sources for the work of tourist communities is tourist membership, and your ministry's instructions have changed the model in the calculation of insurance companies, so there is no longer any extra membership to the overall income of that society, but only according to the activity relating to catering and tourism. This puts tourist communities in a particularly difficult position especially those on the continent whose tourist membership is the biggest income, since the residence tax is not so much represented in the continent, and let's say now in the 2010 plans there are major problems because the planned and the computer with these funds has been planned and they have entered the programme of tourist communities. Perhaps just as an example, from my town of Varazdin where due to the change of the model there was a decrease of several thousand kunas in the tourist community budget, and I remind you that last year the City of Varazdin was named the best tourist destination of continental Croatia. Of course, there is another problem that this membership fee is calculated according to the activity, i.e. the company's headquarters, not the areas of the activity being carried out. So my question in this sense is what will you do to help the tourist communities, especially those on the continent whose tourist membership is the most important income, which you will do to make up for this difference and whether you are considering changing this regulation that you have given through this instruction that the account is done not to the company headquarters where the membership is calculated rather than to the place where the activity is carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52700	Thank you. Mr. Minister Damir Byce, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52701	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. MP. So, a year and a few days ago, this Assembly actually brought about changes in the system of tourist communities. After 15 years, we first introduced some new changes. This is of course related to new tasks such as destination management, with the fact that we wanted the tourist communities to be professional, so we introduced professional exams and, of course, we introduced incompatibility, so you can't be the director of the tourist community and, let's say, the hotel owner. In that segment, we have also made changes related to funding. One of these is a change in membership fees. However, I will also say that the figures are perfectly clear, so in 2008, the total system without contributions from the state or county, cities and municipalities had income from membership fees and from the fee of 495 million kuna. In 2009, it increased to 503 million kuna, regardless of the fact that there was a recession, regardless of the fact that, of course, the revenues of those who pay are lower. I won't explain how it happened, but the numbers are completely clear. Even when we're talking about membership fees, they're actually from 190 million kunas, as they were in 2008 only to 185, I think millions, as it was in 2009. What I would say, of course, and within the framework of the law, is that 2.5% of total membership fees are paid to a special fund in the Croatian tourist community, I am talking, of course, about a central office that serves exactly the financing of undeveloped tourist parts of Croatia, which is basically in most parts of continental Croatia. And this was first introduced as one systematic support for those less developed areas. However, I must point out that the Government's economic recovery programme indicates that the residence tax, and, of course, the membership fee will be changed, namely that it will have to change on the basis of its desire to make the economy more competitive. And we, in the context of these changes ahead of us and in front of other ministries, will look at how, of course, in agreement with the social partners, we will make the changes that are ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52702	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52703	Thank you, Mr. Minister, but I said what a concrete example this is in my city and you know we all swear on tourism as a strategic branch of Croatia's development, so please really take care of it. I'd like to ask you a written answer in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52704	Thank you. He's going to ask Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52705	Madam Prime Minister, the number 93 we wear on the lapels today is a protest against your Health Minister Darko Milinovic. Due to its incomprehensible stubbornness and spite in Croatia, 93 children were born less than last year through a method of aided insemination. Your health minister has abolished the right for parents to reach the child they wanted by freezing the mattresses. Your Minister of Health has abolished free supplemental insurance for a number of categories of citizens. Your Minister of Health has abolished hospitals in Zagreb, your Minister of Health abolishes maternity homes in Makarska and Sinj. When will you finally end this Minister of Health and make all Croatian citizens happy?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52706	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52707	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative. Well, of course I've listened very carefully to what you're talking about and of course I'm as interested as the minister, or Vice President Milinović on the subject you're having problems with, and of course it's neither funny nor funny, and that, of course, when the government is talking about any law and then this law, it does and it will do everything to keep it in line with real life and we've said it many times and I repeat it. The facts do not support what you just said, that the vice president and minister have abolished Zagreb hospitals. No, Mr. MP, the minister proposed, as part of the economic recovery programme, rationalising or rational behaviour, or saving. And these savings will only be made to combine administrations, to have fewer bosses, to bring more than 13 million savings only to enable the employment of more than 150 nurses, which will certainly help to make the health care of patients treated in hospitals bigger, better, because the more sisters it is, of course, care for those who lie in hospitals and wait for the healing of bigger ones. In total, you have heard today, and will save in view of everything that has been predicted to be more than nearly 320 million kuna. I think it's a respectable savings, that all of us in these times have to act rationally, that this tells us not only the situation in which we live but that otherwise we have to change the way we behave and it's not insignificant money. When it comes to taxpayers' money, I also heard a recent statement from your fellow SDP representative who said that this merger would save up to 20 million kunas in the administration’s rationalisation. I quote so I don't have to apologize, so that's what the man said. This shows a scandalous attitude towards taxpayers' money, so money that is not ours and is not yours and is not yours, but taxpayers' money and 20 million kunas of budget money is huge money. 5 grand of budget money is a huge amount of money, and we're looking for the responsibility of everyone to spend that money. As far as the birthplaces that you're bringing together, it would certainly be like I believe a legalist, but we should still support all those decisions that prevent any incident, and the birth incident can always lead to someone dying, to die, to die a child, to die a birth. And, of course, the decision was not made by the minister, nor by the ministry, by the decision-making authorities. And now about the law yet. The law is, as you know, done in accordance with the profession and I am as open as the Vice President and Minister for any further debate. And as for here's your trimming with this number, my association in the first wave was to burn something in the SDP, so we should call the firemen. But that's not the point. Therefore, we will be absolutely open to listening, listening and above all, above all listening to the law that you mention what the profession says, certainly both parents and fathers and mothers in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52708	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52709	Where do we go from here? From the maternity ward. Well, these birthplaces have been working like this since you've been Prime Minister and since when he was Prime Minister Sanader. So what, like the government, you didn't bother to train these hospitals to have maternity homes with all the conditions? So when you have a problem that you don't know how to solve, then you end the place where the problem has arisen. So you understand why the citizens choose a government? Not because he's abolishing them, not because of all the rights they've had so far, all the benefits, their wages, their pensions, their taxes, and the tax cuts. One word to make their lives as difficult as possible, to make their lives as bitter as possible. So citizens choose a government to solve problems, to train hospitals where maternity homes don't have surgery. Citizens choose a government to make them feel better, only that with your government we obviously won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52710	Let's move on. It is Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52711	A question for Mrs. Prime Minister Kosor. Madam Prime Minister Mark Rakar, a prominent consultant for the new media and member of election staff Ivo Josipovic, was detained, questioned, taken away his computers, reviewed the computers allegedly to find out how he leaked the defence registry to the public. In those days, monitoring media, portals, etc. The troubled public has set up the next dilemma that I dare not think. Namely, the reason for this maltretation of Mr. Rakar was or was the desire of Minister Karamark to obtain potentially interesting information from the Ivo Josipovic campaign or the government's fear that it would be revealed that the defence minister's internship and some of the HDZ MPs was faked. What can you say to the public about this dilemma?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52712	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52713	What can I say to the public, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, that these are the most harsh insinuations, lies and that, of course, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of the Minister and Ministry of which you didn't ask him at least here, but I reject both the Minister and the Ministry, all the employees of the Ministry of the Interior, because don't be angry with this, I'm experiencing this as yet another pressure on the Ministry of the Interior, on the police to do their job. About why Mr. Rakar was with the police and everything else I know only as much as I need to know as you do. Besides, I haven't been involved in that in any way in the sense that I'm looking for any additional information, that's what I'm talking about. Why was he there? Because based on obvious indications, the police felt that they needed to get there and that his documents or anything else should be examined, I'm not going in at all and I didn't get the information. I also know from the media as probably you do that one major part of it actually didn't have to come back later, but he wanted to be there and monitor it. That's how I read it in the paper. But I don't really care about that either. I'm just interested in the fact that the police are doing their job properly within their powers, within the framework of the law, that they don't break the law by a millimeter, and that I have to insist as Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. And about Mr. Rakar or anyone else being there to get some information about Mr. President Ivo Josipovic, I think it's really scandalous and to think about it. The election is over. Mr Ivo Josipovic won and is the president of the Republic of Croatia. As for the insinuation in order to obtain some information about the minister of any government, whether he has a defence standing or not, whether he participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia or not, so ask the minister. I suggest the minister you mentioned to list his information from the Croatian Defence Register. He really defended the Republic of Croatia with honor. It's very proud of all of us, but I believe all those who come through my question, I'm sure you mention it. As regards the other circumstances relating to Mr. Rakar, you did not mention any other circumstances that I think you should mention and take care of, because you are the one who oversees, you are the one who brings the state budget, you are the one who oversees the state budget and you must make sure that each of us fulfils our obligations to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia without exception and there is no discount for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52714	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52715	Well, I'll be happy to accept your arguments here, but why? So it's just that I think that the real reason for an incredible spin and a little circus performance that took place in front of the public about the defense register and its publication lies in the fact that all the round tables, the extraordinary government session, the presses, etc. He's lying in something else. I think it was an overture, I warned you about it a month ago when it came up. I think it was an overture to what came or followed these days-- cutting defense pensions, cutting pensions of people with disabilities in the Homeland War, and pensioning children of the dead Croatian defenders. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52716	Mr. Representative, the representative may express satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer to the parliamentary question by giving reasons for a minute. It is not necessary to expand and raise new questions, because, as I once said to the MP earlier, he asked another additional question in his answer. I don't think that's taking us anywhere, but that we have to stick to the strict Rules of Procedure. And that's why we're moving on, so we can finish this anyway. Let's get this over with. Now we're on the 22nd of 40 questions. Well, there won't be a break, because we're still gonna have to end up out there by 1:00. Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52717	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister. Here's my question. I'll ask Mr. Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Darka Milinovic. Mr. Minister, here are the last days in Croatia of major controversy related to the application of the Law on Medical Insemination. Here's how we know last weekend's first convention of medical insemination was held. I have to tell you that these days I've had a lot of questions, especially from people with disabilities who can only become parents through medical insemination. They're simply confused, I dare say by spreading some unwitting news that the Law on Medical Insemination has received very, very negative results. In view of the recent congress, I ask you nicely, Mr. Minister, whether you have received any information from the profession, so what are the results of this law based on the past law, so whether the procedures have been less or as many speak led by opposition even 100 proceedings less than before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52718	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52719	Here, you know what this number is? Maybe you don't know. It's the SDP's fight for the ultimate policy. When the maternity benefits were lifted in Croatia were born, see how many children were less, see how many. Here's a good badge, and no, but there's a fireman to greet, the season's coming, they're gonna have a lot of work to do, and God bless them. Now look at 93 less, come on and I'll say it. If you don't believe me, don't insult the experts. The head of the gynaecology and maternity clinic, Mr. Minister, we didn't work at 12 months, so it could be a pregnancy if we didn't work and we did what we did last year would be 30 pregnancys. Well, of course it was less at 12 months. Well, then, Dr. Lucinger, one of the most famous experts on medical insemination, says the ministers didn't work at the 12th month, and I'm going to investigate why the principal ordered them not to work. If we did what we did last year, we'd be 40 more pregnant. Well, of course, the SDP wants to spread such misinformation to citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are bordering with some other responsibility. So in the 12th month it is, but I will not let them insult, as Dr. Jerkovic's distinguished parliamentary representative insults, but if I succeed, I will also tell who, so I will not allow any storks, so as it echoed in Croatia... I insult Dr. Lucinger, Dr. Vrčić, Dr. Oreshković, Dr. Kunu, Dr. Haleb, Dr. Sijanović, Dr. Vranjša, Dr. Poljak, who gave me the information to tell the Croatian public, and they say that in the first 4 months of this year, when the same criteria were born 40 children more. [[You don't understand.]] Dear gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, do not insult colleagues who deal with it, do not press with them, and demean them. If you don't believe me, this is what your colleagues are saying. And one more thing, I know it's hard to bear defeat, it's victory, you realize that it's a victory 40 children more, so it's not a defeat. Well, that's Croatia's victory. Today, we have 15 more children. Mrs. Romana Jerkovic, and in Rijeka, we have the first pregnancy from a defrosted egg cell, so far there has been no defrosted embryos. Why don't you talk about it? You said about the vaccine. Please tell Mrs. Jerkovic not to be offended. Professor Beus, therefore head of the clinic for infectious diseases Fran Mihaljevic, Professor Genero, Head of Epidemiology of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, Primarius Baklajic, Director of the Institute, Professor Kajaić-Rac, head of the World Health Organization's Office, Vladimir Dražnović, head of the national flu laboratory of Croatia who decided to get the vaccine and were, they said, we can't have 2 and a half million because we don't have the funds, let's go million and a half, 70 million kuna, we paid only 15 and yes, tell her that she knows the law that we should know that we have to have in stock of those vaccines that have not failed, because they are also worth the next season of the flu. The Croatian government has soared and protected the 55m kuna. I'm not going to give all the resources to insult the profession, to insult my colleagues, and especially the fact that it's still coming from their colleague. So the ones I've read have decided that Croatia needs so many and so many vaccines, not the minister. Those I read, who are dealing with medical insemination, gave these results, not the minister, not from the SDP, do not insult colleagues who are engaged in this difficult job from the Social Democratic Party and where in Croatia today we have the 55 most recent result of more successful pregnancies... That's true, and you need to know that. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] This is a badge for you. This is a badge for you gentlemen, 10,000 children less because you... /Applause./ [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52720	Thank you. Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go, Mrs. Lukacic, please, Mrs. Lukacic's got her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52721	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Secretary, I am extremely pleased with your answer. Thank you for explaining this to the Croatian public, as well as to our colleagues from the SDP, and I believe now that the public will no longer be confused, and that colleagues from the SDP will finally respect the results given by the experts who are here today, and I believe that those people who want to become parents will finally know what the real truth is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52722	It's Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52723	Mrs. Kosor made a strange and dangerous statement in early April. He said the police can't do anything illegal. So whatever you're doing and whatever you're doing is a police act for your minister is always perfectly legal. I guess the minister justifies the police beating of a 20-year-old young man in Karlovac, harassing Mark Rakar in which he himself joined his public appearances. It should be noted, by the way, that it has been 2 months since the internet's defence registry was published, and that the depoliticed minister's police are palling in the dark. So I ask you, is the minister's position on the infallibility of the police also your position?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52724	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52725	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, it would be good if you asked the Minister of the Interior, but I'd be happy to answer, and I think I've spoken before. So the police must do their job within the framework of the law, within their powers and that is the fundamental position of the government as a whole, the Minister of Interior and mine as Prime Minister, but on the other hand we will not allow, of course, anyone to endanger the police in their work. As you've recently seen, and there have been cases of people sitting in some kind of means of transportation trying to crush police officers on the road to stop them from doing their job. That's absolutely out of the question, and we're not gonna let that happen. And I believe you won't support it either. As for the case in Karlovac you mention, you know that the Minister of the Interior reacted the same second, and all those who were, unfortunately, involved in this meek event were punished. And that's something you forgot to mention in your question. But it's also true that, Mr. Representative, from here on out of your ranks has been continuous since it's been working primarily on this important business of fighting corruption, and ever since some of the affairs that you've been relying on and on the SDP, you've been constantly putting pressure on the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior. Mr Linic so without a pardon on several consecutive presses insults the interior minister himself. That's not what you're reacting to, Mr. Representative. It is unacceptable for the Minister of the Interior to insult any representative in such a way as to call him a spy, etc., because of a job that works in accordance with the law. Therefore, a little more respect for the work that each of us is doing, Mr. Representative. I respect your work, please respect our work. Finally, the police, the Home Office only within the framework of the law. Strongly, there is no deviation from it, but I also ask you to support me and Minister Karamark in this, no one should violate the laws in relation to the police that safeguards public order and peace and which unfortunately investigates many examples of corruption and crime today in the Republic of Croatia. And that is why I ask you, Mr. Representative, to support the amendments to the Republic of Croatia's Constitution in which we propose that a provision be put in place to ensure that conversion crime does not become obsolete. I am waiting for the SDP to support the amendments to the Constitution, in which it is also not a European package, but we have decided to do so, to be one of our joint decisions. Of course, if SDP raises his hand for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52726	Thank you. Mr. Igor Dragovan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52727	Mrs. Kosor, I can only say thank you for accepting SDP's proposal on non-depreciation of crime in conversion, and on the other hand that the case in Karlovac is next. After it became a public matter, after the media published it, there were some sanctionings. And when an opportunity comes to report by the Attorney General, you will see in that part what the Attorney General warns of. From the initial thesis of his opening speech before this House on the depolitisation of the police, I fear that the demand and increase of police powers leads only in the other direction, which is the creation of a police state.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52728	Ms. Representative, Sunday's Klaric will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52729	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam President of the Croatian Government, Minister and Minister. Here I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Shimonovic. Mr. Minister of Charges, which the Croatian public knows about, which is directed towards the president of the Croatian National Council, Mr. Radomir Cacic, at the time he was Minister of Construction in the Government of Mr. Ivica Racan, went in this direction to take advantage of his businesses, made additional contracts, and thus damaged the state budget by as much as 125 million kuna. We were also able to read in the newspaper that USKOK has the relevant documentation, so I was wondering if this case was processed and in which direction they ended up, that is, in which direction does this accusation go? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52730	Thank you. Minister Shimonović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52731	Mr. President, Your Honor. I will ask the State's Attorney's office to answer your question and deliver it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52732	Thank you. Mrs. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52733	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Well, here I am convinced that you will do as you said, and that other cases that occurred during that period of the Ivica Racan coalition government from the beginning of 2000 to the end of 2003, containing incriminating content and having incriminating actions, will be processed and that the Croatian public will be informed about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52734	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52735	A question for the Minister of Science. Dear Mr. Minister, economic recovery, economic growth and development are impossible without a concrete Croatian product on world markets, we all know that. However, what may be less known and deserves more attention, there is no competitive Croatian product on world markets without applied industrial research and without applied industrial innovations and patents. It's certainly a key and important topic that deserves more attention, I'd like to cancer almost that's the secret of success. That's what you, Mr. Minister, know very well. There is no easily competitive Croatian product on world markets with no more Croatian mind to be incorporated into these products. It is well known that because of these reasons, it stands in the Lisbon Treaty, 3% of the allocation for research and development in order to boost the competitiveness of the European economy. You can tell Mr. Minister something more about your plans in this context regarding the National Foundation for Science and Technological Development, I am sure an institution that could play a significant role in strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52736	Thank you. Minister Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52737	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Madam Prime Minister, honourable MPs. It is absolutely true that without applied research that can find a place in production and contribute to the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian that economic activity but also scientific activity cannot remain on the side. It definitely needs all capacities in this segment to focus precisely on research and transfer technologies that can further trigger the Croatian economy in those segments where there are predispositions and certain strategic advantages in niches where we can find our place under the sun as a relatively small country with relatively small emphasis on scientific potentials on the global market. Of course, in these limited financial difficult times, the ministry is trying to find other forms of funding and talks on this, so I quote as one of the very ages of examples and agreements and talks with Plitvice Lakes National Park where it is decided to place Plitvice Lakes' 5 million kuna projects on the basis of the principles of evaluation and proposed projects by Plitvice Lakes on the basis of a competition and offer to the scientific community to address specific problems that are of interest to Plitvice Lakes National Park where it is also one of the envisaged projects, contributing to better economic efficiency, thus improving supply and national park itself. As far as global science is concerned in Croatia, it is clear that basic science, fundamental research, is the most expensive research that only after a great time can they find their application in concrete projects and implementation in a technological product. So surely, in these coming times, most of the money needs to be directed towards technological research, not jeopardising, in any case, the fundamental research needed to raise new scientists, but also the position and state of science in any country at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52738	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52739	In this regard, the Science Foundation has so far done a very large job in terms of the return of Croatian scientists and the financing of certain projects aimed at the competence of our researchers and research projects and in European Union programmes, but also in some other programmes that are competitive and can be involved in research of the interests that exist in the world of science around the world. But what you're saying is true. The Foundation has, among other things, in its basic principle and mission and technology projects. This should be strengthened in the future, and the programme of measures of economic development, amendment and addition of the Foundation Act is also envisaged. The default is a clear deadline until it is necessary to do so. The government did. And I can say here that exactly in accordance with this deadline will be surely respected, and I can also say that we will do anything to keep that deadline from being exceeded, but precisely to bring it before the deadline set.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52740	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52741	Of course, the amendments and additions to this law go in line with the fact that additional sources of funding from funds that are not directly from the state budget, but also the way in which the trust is managed, as well as the way in which the project is evaluated, and thus defining what the projects are going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52742	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52743	It's also highly funded to be focused.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52744	Thank you very much. It was a bit of a longer answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52745	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I absolutely support your initiative to strengthen the role of the National Foundation for Science and Technological Development with a new proposal and amendments to the law that we will probably all support together in the Croatian Parliament in the interest of really long-term strengthening of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. There's almost no other alternative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52746	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52747	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the president of the Croatian government, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Mrs Kosor, your special envoy for Euro-Atlantic integration and newly-roasted member of the HDZ presidency, and former adviser to Prime Minister Sanader Mr Davor Stir, the Croatian public has had the opportunity to learn about the status of the Ustasha regime and the NDH, which is why he recently repented No, the Croatian public will certainly be interested in how much of the state register stands out for your special envoy. So my particular question is what exactly is he doing and what is his salary and what is his currency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52748	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister, for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52749	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Representative. I will not answer about this part of the questions that you manipulate to Ustasha fans, because Mr. Davor Schir is a person to himself, it is all he had to say to the public, and it would not be good to remind you of some other high-ranking officials in Croatia who used to sing some songs in the past, etc., here to the president of the former etc. That wouldn't be good if we went now into something that was purely politicizing, returning to 90th, etc. I will answer you of course this question, Mr. Schir is, as you know, appointed Special Envoy of the Prime Minister for Euro-Atlantic Co-operation and he is, of course, positioned with the main negotiator and I believe you support the fact that we have to finish negotiations this year, that is the goal of the government I do not know whether the SDP is, but the Government is absolutely certain that in this sense we are doing everything possible. So, in this sense, the extended hand from the Prime Minister's office is the only good part of the time and on the way to Europe, but it's also a lot in Brussels, and last week when your representative was in Brussels, it just sort of happened, so it's possible to check it out. Therefore, our goal in this regard is to complete the negotiations, it is, as the name says, is the adviser and special envoy for Euro-Atlantic integration, working on this job, all that we in the Government conclude is necessary. One large part of the job refers to what might be called silent diplomacy. Mr. Stir was extremely engaged in negotiations with Slovenia, in negotiations with my Mr. Pahor, where literally, I can say that now almost daily with one such group of people of Prime Minister Pahor's trust who spoke uninterruptedly about the possibilities for this agreement to come, and that meant weighing every word and going to meetings across Europe, because, as you know, and at that job, we needed the support of those who support us on that path. The second part of the foreign-political job is what we have already won as an external-political goal, which is that we are a NATO member, and I hope that you do not dispute it, as Prime Minister I have a lot of work to do, and that Mr Stir is an envoy for Euro-Atlantic integration working on a lot of work that needs to be done daily. NATO is one of the major foreign political successes for us in the government and a coalition of NATO membership, I know that you were not up for it, and you were actually considering the possibility of calling a referendum for NATO but here we are, however, a proud member of the NATO Alliance, and there is Mr. Representative a lot of work to do. Finally you asked about his incomes, very easily I can write it to you not only to remain on the words, so I will not say the exact amount in the lip, so I will tell you indicatively about 24 thousand kuna, but in order not to remain on it, I will write you a detailed report on what this refers to, and I repeat once again, by a special decision of the Government is also the regulated salary of the chief negotiator who has about 30 thousand kuna salaries, quite certainly much more than the Prime Minister or Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52750	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52751	Dear President, I'm a little bit pleased with your response. You said what he was doing. But then there's the question of what institutions are doing that are created, people are getting paid for it if you're going to name another person for the job directly related to HDZ. So it is not disputed that you hired a person is a controversial way in which the person received the salary which she herself admitted in the media. So it is undeniable to work in the negotiating office, the Zagreb office of the negotiator, it is undeniable to work across the street physically in the government, it is undeniable that it is not at the embassy outside, that it is not outside at the embassy and that it receives salary in euro. Mrs Kosor and you work to get Croatia into the European Union so you do not receive salaries in euro. So this is a classic example of the right to buy political loyalty to taxpayers' money and in euro. You can yell, your man has confirmed it himself. There's no legal and sublegal act that's possible, but this time there's not a real Eva Sanader behind which you can all hide together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52752	Let's not qualify to buy political loyalty, who's what when you buy it, which is who when you were and what's who when you represent it, this isn't the subject of a debate here, who buys political loyalty or doesn't buy it. We said we wouldn't qualify that way. Mrs. Sumrak will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52753	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the honourable members of the government, the Minister and the Minister. I, like my colleague Kunst, will not ask Minister Cobankovic about Daimler no matter what badges our opposition MPs wear, I am glad that Agent Borzan came, because then her finding that she lives in an abnormal state may in some way be considered true, but believe me, colleagues do not live in an abnormal state. I'm going to ask the question for the simple reason that's not true, and maybe instead of those badges, maybe you could put a 25-date badge in that direction. 6. when a decision on sovereignty and independence was made in this honorable House, your predecessors of the SDP rose and left. However, I will return now and medias truly, Mr Ministers of the past days to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the National Committee for the Monitoring of Accession and Pre-accession Negotiations of the Croatian Parliament, adopted a final report for Chapter 12. Chapter 12 is a very sensitive area and talks about food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary surveillance. How complex this area is, and the fact that the 448 regulations are now in line, remains until the 50. A 4th conference on food safety has recently been held, emphasising priorities in the food sector. I ask you nicely, Mr. Minister, to answer the following questions. I would like to know when we can expect the closure of this chapter, and in particular what can be expected for food business operators and within the framework of this legal property that regulates this area and what is the importance of harmonising this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52754	Thank you. Mr. Petar Cobankovic will answer, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52755	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Your Honor, thank you very much for not asking me a question about Daimler, because unfortunately, I couldn't even answer that question. But thank you for this question and I will be very happy to answer you and the other MPs. Yes, chapter 12 will be closed at the first Intergovernmental Conference on the accession of the Republic of Croatia, which we expect in the middle of the 6th month to be held and Chapter 12 will be closed. I would also like to remind you that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development is responsible for two more chapters. This is Chapter 11 of Agriculture and Rural Development and Chapter 13. - Fishing. It is about extremely demanding chapters, chapters which are practically referred to by over 50% of the European Union's total legislation, and this fact itself speaks of how demanding chapters are on the one hand, and on the other hand are demanding because of the need to work towards adapting Croatian agriculture to reforms of the system both direct payments and other activities. But here, however, in all three chapters, I can say that we stand very well, best in Chapter 12 for which the government has accepted the final report and, as I said, we expect its closure. But it was not a simple and easy job to get the chapter closed, mainly in food safety where the European Union gives particular importance to food security and that is something that is in the priorities of the European Union. You yourself said that somewhere around a third of the European Union's total legislation concerns food safety. Of course we had to harmonise our legislative framework, that we have harmonised 448 EU regulations, that and these 50 that you mentioned for this year that most of the practical work has been done in this first period and that we have created assumptions about the legislative framework so that we can close the chapter. On the other hand, we had to complete the complete identification, animal registration. A very demanding job, meaning of cattle, pigs, sheep, goats so that today Croatia can say that it has a complete register of domestic animals, that all animals are marked and that this creates a presumption of further traceability. Also, a categorization of all the objects that deal with food products has been carried out, and I have to tell you that it was, that there was a peco of thousands of business facilities examined, that the situation in 2007 when we started was very bad, that we had only 200 objects that were harmonised. And here is thanks to God today, I can proudly say that there are 617 objects in May Croatia that are in line with EU facilities and that we have only 262 of which we have to be realistic that part will not be harmonised, that the good part will be brought into line until Croatia's entry into the European Union and that we have obtained for that part of the objects that will not be harmonised until the entry, that we have received a transitional period until 2015. But each of these objects must make and make up and make up individual coordination plans where they have defined all activities. What I would especially like to emphasise is that there are harmonised activities to protect animal health and that eradication and disease control programmes have been developed. First of all, I mean classical swine fever, I mean tuberculosis and leukosis in cattle, brucellosis and the like. Now, this all shows that we have done a great deal of work, but what our economies get, they get equal access to the European Union market...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52756	Excuse me, Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52757	Except for customs that have no barriers to no more veterinary or food safety barriers. They get an increase in competitiveness, but I'd say our consumers and consumers get the most guarantee of food safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52758	Thank you. Mrs. Sumrak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52759	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here's your answer, indeed, has been exhausted, but surely given the area that needs this kind of response. I'm sure this is both Chapter 12 and all of this legislation that is in line and the regulations that are bringing about reality and are a great supporter of the economic recovery programme which, of course, also at a recent conference commended the government, Mr. Thomas... Because what's important for our exporters in this agricultural and food sector, I think it's one of the most important branches in agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52760	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52761	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, you've said several times today that neither you nor your narrower or wider cabinet will be tried by the court of the party. I agree with that, of course, but it will judge you very quickly to the court of the public for ignorance, incompetence, irresponsibility and unbelief. So I'm asking you my next question. In order to get votes from voters just before the 2007 elections, you deceived workers and trade unions and signed a collective agreement for public and state services. You could have canceled it by the end of April this year, but you didn't. And now that contract would have to be applied. You, however, will not apply it, but by the announced amendment of the Labour Act, you will remove all acquired rights of workers. Madam Prime Minister, so tell us if any of your signatures are worth anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52762	I don't think that's the way to communicate, whether your signature is worth it, whether you're capable, incompetent. Let it be decided by the people in the election. Don't qualify. Here you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52763	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative. Yes, my signature is well worth it, I will see if everything is as planned and in what we are making the greatest effort to sign, Mr. MP, and the accession contract that Croatia will conclude, the accession negotiations for the European Union. That's what I'm really looking forward to, and that's why we're doing all we can to implement all these economic recovery plans, but also fighting corruption whatever we think about it, Mr. Representative. And of course all those projects that are related to the European Union. You're referring to a court of law. Leave the court to the public. We won the previous parliamentary elections when you mention it. We won the local election last year. Research shows very good results despite the crisis, despite all the problems that we have, because people recognize that the government has been dealing seriously with all the problems that are affecting us from economic recovery, getting out of the crisis to fighting corruption. Speaking of which, I think I have the right to say that to you, since you are always very upset and yourself, Mr. Representative, because even though you are the president of this council of Parliament. So, for example, Minister Karamark was very good when it seemed that only one party would investigate. However, when it turned out that investigations, because we are afraid of corruption at all levels can lead to some members of your party then you began to strongly object to Mr Karamark. Until then, he was a very good expert and professional, and from now on he needs to be replaced because he's no good. But of course we won't accept it. You mention collective agreements. Yes, Mr. Representative. One thing is when you sign and negotiate and negotiate collective agreements at a time when GDP growth is 5.6%, at a time when the situation is good, at a time when the budget is full and when there is no global crisis that has rolled to our doors. These are two different situations in which it's signed. Now the situation is as you saw the budget as it is, that last year we had to rebalance it three times and that the money for everything that was agreed on through these contracts was gone and that it had to go into some restrictions. And that's what we very clearly and transparently told people, unlike the messages coming from your party at the same time that when you come to power, you will return all the privileges. And about what I think is pure demagogy, and about how you acted in power we also saw in the case of about 2,000 people who were fired from the MUP and then sued, because you reduced the rights of the defender by 40%, reduced the birth benefits, etc. etc. So that's what I'm talking about giving up. You were in a different situation back then. We are in a different situation today, and we believe that we can, on our own, know the economic recovery programme that includes these measures, the Economic Recovery Programme has been welcomed by both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and as you saw last week by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. All economic experts in Croatia, advisors of the President of the Republic. Now and finally, that we're going to abolish all labour rights is really something I think, sir, that's your statement that even you shouldn't allow it. It's a complete lie. I'm very determined to deny it. That's not the point. However, many rights, many rights remain in force. We must go to certain restrictions that we must do to strengthen and become 28 members as a strong Croatia. It is understood by trade unions, of course, sometimes it is not exactly the public's point of view. We have obtained employers for the economic recovery programme where the measures that we must go to certain restrictions on collective agreements as measures and support on the Economic and Social Council. Therefore, I reject your finding vigorously that by amending the Labour Act, all rights acquired will be abolished. It is a lie and the Court of Justice will rule on it in the next parliamentary elections that will be held in 2011 and in which we will win again because we show ourselves clear, strong, courageously tell people the truth when it is difficult. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52764	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52765	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister Kosor, for your response. As usual, you've talked a lot, and you've actually said very little. The fact that your signature on collective agreements is not valid is the fact that your signatures on government decisions don't apply. You yourself have stated that it is not worth your signature on the TLM contract, and that's exactly how much your signatures are worth, your promises, you're so credible. However, Madam Prime Minister Kosor, one of your signatures would be very much worth saving Croatia. Sign your resignation, you and your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52766	The government has the support of the majority in the Croatian Parliament and will exist until then. It's Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52767	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my question, Mr Tomislav Karamark, Minister of the Interior. In fact, it has been known to the public for quite some time that representatives of Daimler Benza in a court settlement have listed the names and last names of officials in Croatia who received almost 5m euros in bribes for the purchase of fire trucks in 2003. According to my knowledge, the list of these bribed officials of the former Ivica Racan coalition government was passed to the Croatian judicial authorities, so I ask you to answer me where it came from in the investigation, where the list is located and when the Croatian public will find out the names of the bribed SDP officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52768	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Karamarko Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52769	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, I really can't. It's a jumping object whose work is under way, and I really can't comment on it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52770	Mr. Markovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52771	Well, here's a thank you to Mr. Minister, and I hope soon that list will be made because the public is interested in whether someone got a million euros from the SDPs or a million and a half or 500,000 we're going to go to a little teyerarchy in the SDP. But it would be good to wait because soon a similar thing will come, and with the tilt trains that no one would have bought without a big bribe, which is both, I would ask you, please call the real fire department 93, explain to them how many fire trucks they could get for that bribe you got. By the way, the comparison of the bribes you got is bigger than the price of military trucks with VAT combined. So let's let people watch a little bit of what you are and how much money you've collected.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52772	We agreed, Mr. Representative, that we wouldn't qualify. So we heard the Minister of the Interior that it's a jumping object and that you'll see what happens. Let's not turn into an investigation into a court of law, here. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52773	My question to the Prime Minister refers to tax relief or better to the elimination of tax relief on housing loans for primarily young families who went to get their first roof over their heads. So, both you and your finance minister said it was about rich citizens and that's why you're ending those reliefs. So a person who raises a loan of 60,000 euros per 20 years has a war of 3 thousand 200 kuna, so with an average salary of 5 thousand, 200 kuna, indeed, 20 years has a great burden. I'm asking you if you still think that these citizens who take such credit and can buy a possible 40-square-square apartment, rich citizens of this country, and that you need to cut their tax breaks because they've been counting on it and now they don't know how they're going to repay their housing loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52774	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52775	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs, so I thank the EVO for mentioning how you told my Minister of Finance, he is also yours because he is the Minister of Finance. It's not yours? It's a shame, but so says the law, you know, and so says the Constitution that the Minister of Government is the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but obviously in this direction you intend to change the Constitution. It won't work. So it's also your minister, Madam Representative, as much as you don't want to admit it. So, Minister of Finance... And the Deputy Prime Minister briefed me, and they reported that these reliefs you're talking about were mostly used by citizens with higher incomes. [[You don't understand.]] But I'm asking you not to look at that decision, of course, separately because it's very simple, if it wants to politicize itself, to get out of the economic recovery program, one measure, and to dispel it, to scrutinize it, and not to look at the whole. That's what you obviously intend to do. Therefore, I ask you to look at the economic recovery program as a whole. Look what we've done with the income tax system. Please welcome the fact that about a million and a half citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and citizens, of course, will have higher incomes since 1 July. In addition, despite the difficult situation, we have managed to put everything together so as to stop the first rate of special tax since 1 July, as of 1 November, the second rate of special tax, which will certainly make it easier in the smaller part, although in the smaller part, I agree but make it easier for people to live. So this is a decision based on arguments, on the data we have at the Ministry of Finance. And finally, when I mention July 1st, since your predecessor had asked me to sign my resignation I would only say that here on July 1st, this is very close, or July 6th, but on July 1st symbolically mark a year of my government's day, a year since I led the government, and a year since the government's been working on difficult jobs that slowly but certainly Madam Representatives give first results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52776	Thank you. Mrs. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52777	Well, of course I'm not happy with the answer, but I have to admit that I didn't expect a different answer from Mrs. Kosor, and I didn't expect you to show much greater care for the families who took the apartment, because you didn't buy the apartment on credit, you got the apartment from the state, you don't pay back the loan for 20 years, and you don't know what it means to pay back the loan for 20 years. The apartment was given to you by Gojko Šušak, but unfortunately young families in Croatia do not have Gojko Šuška to give them an apartment, but they have to work bloodyly for 20 years for the apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52778	Thank you. Let's be patient, ten more questions. Ten more questions. The first of those 10 will be Mr. Frano Matušić will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52779	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring my question to the Minister, Mr. Djury Poppie. Mr. Minister, you are being referred to the privatisation process, so please answer me whether according to the law and the economic justification was the sale of three hotels in Dubrovnik, the Excelsior Hotel, the Bellevere Hotel, the Hotel Compas. The three hotels were sold for 35 million kuna, and the best hotel, Excelsior, was sold for the minimum amount of 4.7 million kuna. From 2001 to 2003, only one slightly better house could be bought with the money for which the three hotels were purchased. However, what is interesting, in the sales contracts of these hotels there is no obligation to invest, there is no taking over of debts, even in the case of Bellerero there is no takeover of guarantees, there is no obligation to sell or dispose of shares, there is no ban on selling or charging real estate. Under such conditions, any employees of these companies could buy these hotels. The business plan for Excelsior was half a page of text without any figures. There is no plan for Bellevere at all, which is an interesting buyer of Bellerera, a natural person, so not a catering company, but a natural person in the image of Goran Stroka offered no means of insurance, no guarantees, no bonds, so nothing. Under these conditions, any employees of these companies could buy these hotels. Of course, it is a sales run by a witness friend of Goran Štrok, then chairman of the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund Mr. Slavko Linic. So I would like you to answer and check these allegations through the contracts signed with the Croatian Privatisation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52780	Thank you. Mr. Minister Djuro Poppie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52781	Mr. President, Your Honor, I am, of course, asking very detailed questions that you have asked here for a specific sale, concrete hotels today cannot say, the real information I will be sure to ask for therefore detailed information from the Croatian Privatisation Fund about everything you have listed here, so I will provide you with the valid and relevant and information about how this hotel group is privatised and whether the selected bidder has therefore implemented the obligations resulting from these tenders. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52782	Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52783	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hope that the Croatian public will see these data very quickly. Why? When you look at who those hotels were sold to. The first hotel was sold to Adriatic luxury hotels, Goran Štrok. The second hotel to a natural person, so Bellevue was sold to a natural person, the third hotel was sold, listen well, the Blue Magic company, in a free translation of Blue Magic from the Canary Islands. We need to get a good look at who's behind that firm, represented by Goran Strok. But the most interesting of the Adriatic luxury hotels of Goran Štroka was Mr. Lord Taylor Blackburn, a Labourist, a leftist option suspended from the House of Lords of the English Parliament for corruption. It was the honorary president of the Adriatic Luxury Hotels Group.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52784	Thank you. He will ask the question of Ms. MP and Vice President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mrs. Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52785	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a question for Madam Prime Minister. Mrs. Kosor, you're just like me and so are many here women and mothers. In addition, you are both Prime Minister and as such you have a duty to address the many and difficult problems of our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens. I recently received one letter from an unemployed mother with three underage children at school. The family lives off their husband’s salary of 5 thousand kuna, and when they pay the directorship, they have about 3,000 left to survive, feed the children, dress the children, train the children. She asked that mother to ask you a question, and I probably wouldn't have asked him if I hadn't read something that seemed important to me and that is why I decided to ask you. Unlike many such letters, the mother asks for nothing, asks for no material help or support, but she writes that she feels like a failed mother and that she is ashamed of the life situation she is in. And for that reason, Madam Prime Minister, I ask you how can this mother feed, that and many other mothers, diet, dress and school it to her three underage children? How can he make a potato salad when there's no oil or vinegar?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52786	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52787	Mr. President, ma'am, so you know what? It would be best, and I'm calling that mother right now if she wrote to talk to you with a letter to me. Jadranka Kosor, St. Mark 2, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then, of course, through the system that I have, above all through the Ministry of Health and Social Care, but also others, I will see what kind of situation that mother is in, if she exists and if she wrote to you and how and how, through which mechanisms we can help her. Of course, if the unemployed are registered at the Institute, what are the employment opportunities, what are the opportunities through our new schooling measures, etc., etc. But also, ma'am, if she's an unemployed mother, if she exists and if she really wrote to you, then she must have the right to an allowance for the children. So we have to see. Since he has 3 children, Madam MPs, the third child has the right to so-called. The ultimate addition, maybe you didn't know that. So, with the regular allowance that each child has of those three children, if there is this real family, then there is a third child right to the most productive addition of 500 kn that we have introduced, which was one part, one of the measures, the most promising measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HDZ and coalition, where we, Madam MPs, have corrected many injustices from the time you were Vice President of the Government, where you were reducing maternity benefits, and of course we introduced a partial maternity benefit, we introduced the first time, Mrs. MPs, and maybe one of those children is little, so maybe it was just born so the lady still enjoys the right to maternity benefits because they also have unemployed mothers, and we introduced it. Four billion kunas are set aside for child support and maternity benefits. We haven't touched a lip in last year's difficult 2009, and we won't touch this too difficult in 2010. And now you've reminded me of an event from the time I was an opposition representative, and you were the Deputy Prime Minister who reduced maternity benefits. We were invited, if you remember, to a family radio show where a real mother called to complain that you took down several hundred kunas, and your answer was that the few hundred kunas would not save her. And then I calculated how much for those several hundred kunas your government has abolished to that mother of the real one, I believe you remember, in the Family Radio program, that real one, I calculated how much for those few hundred kunas your government took could buy diapers, milk, apples, bread, etc. But, Mrs. Antunović, I ask you to give me that letter, right now, I will personally answer, I will personally take care of it, and I will personally write you a written reply based on everything I have done within 3 days. You get a written answer that I did, which is possible to do, of course, which is not possible. Of course, if that lady actually called you. Please, you can give it to me now. I'll be happy to write it down. But since you're in a campaign for the Zagreb SDP, I forgive you all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52788	Thank you. Vice-President Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52789	I'm afraid you've now answered that mother and I'm afraid neither that, nor the 170 thousand unemployed mothers will be pleased with your answer. Namely, no matter what evil the Racan government has done, and how much you say it has abolished your mother's contributions, this is what lunch looks like to you today. You see, this is lunch in 2010, I think I can feed one small child. And this is what Mrs. Kosor looked like to you at lunch in 2004. You see, 3 potatoes, 1 potato, half chicken, a quarter chicken. .../Speakers speaking out loud do not understand. Mrs. Kosor, full of milk and half a glass of milk. One child at least less. Mr. President, I hope I've been polite unlike my colleagues who interfere with what is the commercial right of every MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52790	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52791	In any case, 900.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52792	Please finish yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52793	900 kunas were taken irrevocably but I don't think it matters anymore. They're talking enough about these two plates. .....speakless statistics turned into life.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52794	Thank you. He's going to ask Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52795	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the HDZ club, or at least its majority, behaves as a cheerleading group, my question of Prime Minister Kosor just fits into the atmosphere. I'm glad to inspire you. I can go on. So, on January 21st of this year, a prominent sports political worker, a guest of a general HDZ assembly and a very frequent guest "Open" Mr. Zdravko Mamic said: "My club and I have exported 100m euros of services to the European Union in 4 years." It's about selling football players, of course. Here I am going to ask a simple question. How much did Mr. Mamic pay his taxes on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52796	Madam President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52797	Mr. Representative, I'm going to answer you by way of course and by way of question, because if you think right now I can join the IRS by some miracle and get all the data in my head, you're still overestimating me. I can see you appreciate me very much, but don't overdo it. So, I'll answer you in writing, and don't worry about it. Certainly where I can only speak in principle. So all the money should be in the account, is that so is the Minister of Finance and towards Mr. Mamić and whoever he calls it and what the laws of the Republic of Croatia are called. There is no giving in to anyone in this regard or mercy. Here, be assured, and I'll tie it to one of your fellow MPs, related to a gentleman who was in the police, etc. I mentioned it at the time because he owes the state. So the debt to the state must be paid. Everything the state has to pay for has to be paid. There's no giving in. If you have any information that this fundamental principle has passed somewhere, please contact me by phone in person, you can come to me in government. And if you are able to get some information on this letter by then, I would be grateful, for I am truly willing to do whatever is possible to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52798	Thank you. Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52799	Thank you, Madam President. I must even express my satisfaction with the answer, personally on that phone that I last suggested to you if I have any information. So, I don't think Mr. Mamic paid a lot of taxes, but that's why they paid the citizens. So, of course, you've introduced them a hack, you're cutting off their tax breaks, you're closing hospitals, you're in maternity homes, and he's probably going to go to Switzerland if he has health problems, so you're obviously not taking enough taxes from the rich. Now that you've already said and rated me to follow your work and appreciate you, I must say that I've noticed that you often use an expression that's the title of one of Belmood's films "To the Last Spirit". And it seems to me that you have another Belmond movie that would better describe the situation, and he would be "Incorrigible," Mrs. Kosor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52800	Please, I read the Constitutional Court's decision on the IRS. No constitutional court ever mentions the word "huge." So the Constitutional Court didn't accept the story of the hack, and that hack has the coordinates of the word and the hickey of its own time, right? But that should be thrown out of our vocabulary here in the Parliament. So, the Constitutional Court didn't mention a hack anywhere when he was making that decision. We move on to the next one, and this is Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, who will ask the question, 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52801	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring my question to the Home Secretary, Mr. Karamark. In fact, Podravka, unfortunately there have been a lot of speeches in this Visko home, it has been written in the media, it has been investigated and investigated, but it has also been written about Podravka's resort in Pirovac, and the investigation has also been launched. My question is very brief, Mr. Minister, where did the investigation take place with the sale of the Podravka resort in Pirovac?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52802	Thank you. Mr. Minister Karamarko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52803	So the answer is also going to be short. On 26 January 2010, the police filed a criminal application to the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Koprivnica for the criminal offence referred to in Article 294, that is to conclude a harmful contract. So, the subject is from that date in the jurisdiction of the attorney's office which I assume is taking further action on the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52804	Thank you. Mr. Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52805	It was really short of that kind of police thing. I'll be brief, too. But I want to say one thing, how's there been a lot of talk here about numbers here today, etc. First, I want this number 93 greeting to all firefighters wherever they are. But this second ten thousand figure is truly worrying and deadly. So I came up with one thought that it might be good to analyze the speed and other parameters of the State's Attorney's Office when it comes to HDZ officials or maybe some others, so that we don't get the data of those known as, in the case of one, some legal state is doing its job, and when maybe some of them are after that old folk's "That's how it has to be". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52806	He's going to ask Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52807	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to address the question to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, the Prime Minister. Mrs. Kosor, you are announcing a new electricity collection of around 13% whether this collection and this money will help Croatian citizens repair the damage of 600 million kuna caused by the conclusion of your harmful contract with TLM below the price.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52808	Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52809	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am not announcing the collection of electricity by 1%, I have spoken to Madam MPs, and I will speak very plainly and very clearly and precisely about what must be done in Croatia, which may have seemed to be some of the last years we may have missed, and what we must do now because there are no others, therefore, how much electricity they will probably collect, but about how much they will collect and what we will ultimately decide, taking care of the situation in which we are in the situation in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are located. This has not yet been discussed in the government, will be discussed when the time comes, will be discussed when the conditions are met. Therefore, it would not be good for you to scare the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by collecting electricity, because the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know well, probably the majority that this must happen. I repeat in which percentage we will see it, but certainly in time inform the citizens and try to make some kind of social package for those who are most vulnerable. As far as your clean, very difficult, but very difficult politicizing is concerned that this should be compensated, I reject it, but I also repeat to you, Madam MPs, none, nor you, nor any of your colleagues will scare us in the fight against corruption, in the protection of independent bodies, in the protection of independent justice, in the protection of courts to judge those who have sinned against the laws, to judge those who are in the system of state administration, who were officials to sentence them to high prison sentences if they should, if they have wronged the law, you do not have to doubt it, in that you will neither scare us nor the party to whom you belong, nor the meals of the insinuation and the planting that I read in this matter. Therefore, one thing you can be sure of in this government you have a fighter against corruption and protectors of all independent bodies. It would be good for Mrs. Sobol to support us in this, it would be good for the good of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52810	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52811	Thank you. But Mrs. Kosor, Madam Prime Minister, you say that by our own question, we too fear the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will collect electricity. Madam Prime Minister just over a year ago, she said, excuse me, she said we were scaring the citizens of Croatia with an announcement of electricity collection. A year and a few days ago, the same thing from the mouth of former Prime Minister Sanader, all of you here, fellow MPs and all the other members of the government sitting here, we were accused of scaring the people, because we're talking about the divine crisis. Now by avoiding the answer to my question, you use the same words. Mrs. Kosor, in the fight against corruption, you have very much our support but you do not have it at the time when it appears that this fight against corruption should go towards the highest peak of power to find three musketeers, I must call so pardon, and go to call an independent body such as the attorney's office, that is, the Croatian bar of attorneys, and better go against the lawyer. Is that how you protect an independent judiciary? Protect until the moment when it applies to you or to anyone close to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52812	Thank you. He's going to ask Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52813	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, I am asking my very serious question to Prime Minister Kosor. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you if you could just calm your colleagues down a little bit so I can concentrate. A few days ago you visited the Ministry of Administration and you were surprised to comment on the fact that Croatia has too many heads and chiefs in the state administration. Even every five employees in the state administration are some kind of boss. Of the 65,000 civil servants, even 13,000 are the bosses. You were horrified by that fact, and you were horrified that there were 100 other agencies, offices and offices with your principals, commissioners and other bosses along with the government's ministries. Mrs. Kosor, my question is how many of those agencies, offices and offices have you and your party founded since 2004?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52814	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52815	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. I expected that through this issue you would somehow end up, that you would say Madam President we support both you and the Government on the necessary measures that you must implement from your economic recovery programme because one of the measures in the programme, as you have seen, I believe that, if you do not look at the pages of the Government of Croatia, you can take it out. So one of the measures related to the state administration is a 5% reduction, two by one means two goes and one comes. This one is mainly related to the European Union's entry programmes, so we need to strengthen our administrative capacities. Unfortunately, you don't have good information, I'd like to ask you when you ask a question if you have accurate information, and you can contact the government for that, so you'll get it. So, the state administration, under what we believe to be state administration, isn't as much as you said 65 grand, that's where you mixed things up, the clean state administration is a little less than 10 grand, and if you're involving the military and the police, etc., I don't think we can view it as a state administration in a classical sense, I'm just finding out, I'm not surprised, and I'm just finding it. But everything on the trail of what I told you is the basis of my work and my government, which is to speak clearly and transparently and tell people the truth and it will certainly be recognized by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I thank you for asking, so we will certainly get results through the implementation of this economic recovery measure. We will carry them out completely and to the end, there is no going back in that sense, I can only add new measures and I believe that you, Mr. MP, will support them, and you and other candidates in the elections for the Zagreb SDP want a lot of success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52816	Thank you. Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52817	Thank you for your good wishes, but I must remind you that you and your party have been the main initiators of this many awakening administrations since 2004. Remember that it was you who removed the provision that prescribed that the department's bodies could only be established if there were at least 9 employees. Since 2004, since HDZ is in power, the number of state secretaries who are former deputy ministers has increased from 19 to 69. There are over 150 different institutions, agencies and offices in Croatia, of which 50 have been founded right since HDZ came to power in 2004. All of them have directors, deputies, assistant directors whose salaries are much higher than officials, and you now after six years of spent politics wonder where there's so much administration. You see, Croatia will need firemen after you, 93 is the number of firefighters, but unfortunately for Croatia 93 firemen will be SDP when it comes to Croatia. And another thing, 93 is the number of SDP mandates we will win in the next election together with coalition partners. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52818	That's real optimism. I always support such optimistic people. Mr. Damir Cain will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52819	I must first note that today Mr. President here in this assembly is certainly the most well-prepared. But what you're going to do, by that people every nation deserves looks like this power and this kind of opposition, but let's let it go now. Although I think he deserves better. However, I would like to ask the Prime Ministers a question. Very specifically, does the Slovenian Prime Minister, Mr. Pahor, lie, does Mr. Pahor spread the lies, deceive his public, the Croatian public when I speak, quote: "Mrs. Kosor has agreed to give way to the open sea" or God may not be telling the truth. He says, I quote his words from the debate with Mr. Jansa: Allow Jansa, the Prime Minister says something extremely important and ask him if he can do it again. You said Croatia agreed to get a touch with the international one. Pahor: Yes, yes, because it was basically my proposal all along, and in the end it turned out that it was the fact that I saw a solution to the conflict situation that came to an end in July and it was only a matter of days when the incident would move on to conflicts, etc. In fact, Croatia has accepted the second Rehn proposal, so to determine the contact with the open sea. Furthermore, I know that the Republic of Croatia has paid a high price to continue guessing with the European Commission, and they should not be embarrassed at all. I always tell my Croatian neighbours that we paid the price too, we had to change the constitution because of the Italian requirement, or the Spanish compromise. Slovakia had to urinate for its nuclear power plants, the Czech Republic gave concessions, etc. Such a concession was given by Croatia, but at the right moment we required a decision that seemed morally sustainable to me, and the Republic of Croatia was ready to accept it because it saw it as morally sustainable. He speaks of who sent him to Zagreb, an American representative, and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52820	Now that's a few questions. There's one thing going on. He can ask one question.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52821	So just one question, is Mr. Pahor lying or telling the truth, because if he's telling the truth, then we're going back to those conditions...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52822	Thank you! ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52823	But Croatia runs out of 150km2.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52824	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52825	Mr. President, Mr. Representative. I, at least, think to myself, and I think I proved that, above all, a well-bred person, so I was raised by my grandmother and raised me by being very careful about what I'm saying to other people, and even when I'm the hottest, and when I'm the most offended, and I have the right to be after your questions and after your findings, and even after a number of accusations. These days you have a press conference every other day and you say truly amazing things about me and the work of my government. But as such a well-bred person, I could never tell you, Mr. Representative, that you're lying. So don't expect me to say that for anyone. So I'm going to answer very precisely, please listen to me and I believe you'll understand. All that was agreed with Prime Minister Pahor, namely what the Government of the Republic of Croatia agreed with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, writes in an agreement supported by this House, which was ratified in the Croatian Parliament. Everything in this agreement is agreed. All that the agreement says is, I've talked to Prime Minister Pahor about it, I haven't talked to Prime Minister Pahor in public or in secret about what you insinuate that I or anyone from the Government gave Slovenia as you say going out into the open sea. Therefore, these are facts. Read the agreement, read my statement with the agreement, read all those allegations that nothing in this agreement can prejudge anything and that it will be decided by the arbitration court. And these are the facts and that all procedural deadlines, Mr. Representative, begin to run from the moment that we, when Croatia de facto becomes a member of the European Union. Therefore, it is a good agreement to read, it is good to read it, I ask it, without malnutrition, without bad intentions, without hating anyone, even if it is called the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, Mr. Representative, it is not clear to me, and I have already said this in the discussion of the president of the SDP who, in the opinion of whether this agreement is good or not, has not gone to Brussels, and instead of talking here in Zagreb, I said that it is unfortunately an old Croatian pain to think that everything that is said outside the borders of Croatia is true, and what we say within Croatia that this should be constantly questioned. So, I don't know, and I don't understand, Mr. Representative, why would you trust another prime minister more and you wouldn't trust your Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia who, with the agreement, came before you, who you read and who this House has given great, truly big and important support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52826	Thank you. Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52827	Well, today's atmosphere wouldn't say that we've been raised very well, but I'm glad that you, Madam President, are already so alluded to. He's glad we're not offended and don't insinuate anything. But I still have to admit I don't trust this government much, I don't. What would I trust her for? Should I trust her for TLM, for Pliva, for this wolf prosecution and forsaking it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52828	Do not open new themes. Please! Do not open a new question in your puzzle or do not lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52829	Well, it'd be better if you were in Kumrovci in three days. I'm 100% sure that the Pablo I see as... I would never agree to the arbitration and that earlier, and this second Rehn proposal did not receive guarantees from the United States and Brussels and which is unfortunate in my court of Zagreb, because it will ultimately come to this territorial contact to paraphrasise it with an open sea on which the Republic of Croatia will unfortunately remain without 160 square kilometers... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rest we've won... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52830	Thank you. Thank you. You're over it. It's Mrs. Carmela Caparin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52831	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, members and members of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Namely, it is a matter of many citizens and citizens of Koprivnica-križevci County and Bjelovar-Bilogian County, which refers to the Podravsko-Bilogorska Ipsion. Last year, construction was started part of the highway corridor A12 from Gradec to Križevci, Koprivnica towards Gola, i.e. this second part of A13 that goes Vrbovac two, Bjelovar, Kutina and Terezino Polje towards Hungary. And I'm asking if you can tell us what the construction phase is, what about the project documentation. Whether or not you can say when it might be finished, or at least priority shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52832	Mr. Minister Calmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52833	Mr. Representative, therefore, the Podravo-Bilogon is a car road planned in a four-year road construction and maintenance plan, and the government adopted the programme. Activities on that highway and in one direction of the arms, so highway A12 from the Basec, Križevci, Koprivnica and Gola, which you yourself said on this second leg A13 from Vrbovac, Bjelovar via Tereza Polje to the border with the Republic of Hungary, are done as dynamically and predicted. I must say immediately that these highways will not be finished in this four-year plan and, in accordance with the policies and decisions we have made, we will extend the deadlines of completion in all directions which we know will be completed in 2015. However, in this year 2010, some 95 million kunas are scheduled to be invested in this direction and, when it comes to the location permit, it has been taken out, and for overpasses across state roads D22 and D28 on that stock and construction permit and construction of overpasses over D28 is under way, and for the construction of these other overpasses prior to completion is the resolution of property-legislative objects. So, first they get rid of the stock to put it that way or objects on a critical path. As regards this second direction A13, so from Vrbovac two to Bjelovar, Terezino Polje and the Republic of Hungary there is a little less than 90 million kuna in 2010 and there are also local permits for the bridge across the Bjelovak River on that part had a building permit. The construction of the bridge is under way, and for all other shares, i.e. the facilities are under way to resolve property-legislative objects as I said earlier, provided by a dynamic plan. Therefore, both on one and the other shares, along with the funds we have in 2010 and the funds foreseen by the four-year plan, the work will be as we predicted and as adopted in the programmes. Here, I think the answer to your question is as detailed as I could answer this moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52834	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52835	This really sounds optimistic since our citizens have been very pessimistic given the difficult situation both in the country and in the whole world for this global, financial crisis. I would especially like to thank the Prime Ministers, as well as our large agitators who have always advocated this road to the Vice-Presidents and Foreign Minister Mr Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52836	Thank you. And the last question will be asked today by representative Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52837	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe, and in full faith, I will ask Mr. Economy Minister Mr. Poppie. Mr. Minister, there is a lot of speculation and manipulation of the public, and regarding the contract at HEP, TLM and Aluminium Mostar, and today, unfortunately, here in the assembly. Not going into an investigation that's being conducted, because no one knows what it's really about and what the investigation is now and what direction it's headed. In fact, information is being transmitted that Aluminium Mostar received electricity at some lower, unusual price and is being manipulated by the fact that this was going on I do not know the burden of taxpayers just as we have listened here, etc. And it was actually a business contract common in the world that... provided very high quality metal, and in return received electricity at the price calculated by formula and bound to the price of metal on the London Stock Exchange. [[You don't understand.]] Speculations go so far as to actually accuse all government participants, former prime ministers, etc., and the result of that job is that we have TLM today, that we have saved a thousand 400 seats, that we have the strategic co-operation of TLM with aluminum in Mostar, that we have a strategic investment of over 107 million dollars in TLM, that we have aluminum as the largest exporter in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we have the position of the Republic of Croatia, which is now the 12% owner of that largest exporter in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Minister, what is the government's position when it comes to further business cooperation between Croatian aluminium companies in Mostar? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52838	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52839	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Therefore, it is common in the business world that between large industrial facilities, complexes, and of course energy suppliers of various types are made special business contracts where specific protection is defined, mutual protection of mutual interests, and so is Croatia's electricity industry when the buyer of the second energy supplier makes a special contract, of course, a special price. This contract and this business relationship is dating back to 2007, and this relationship is precisely based on this common practice where energy prices are based on certain coefficients that are built into the formula that you mentioned. Therefore, in this case, the electricity price was defined and tied precisely to the price of aluminium defined on the London Stock Exchange. Of course, such jobs also pose certain risks when in the event of special shocks occurring on the market of any energy, either of these price-influenced parameters, which just happened, of course, by the impact of the major global crisis when the price of aluminium fell drastically. However, what is being done today, and what is the essence of your question and what is the backbone of your finding, therefore, there is definitely a three-way, at least three-way interest in this business. This is certainly the protection of production in TLM, so a thousand 400 jobs and it should certainly be kept in mind, therefore, and this relationship of quite reliable and secure supply of raw materials from the most favourable source, and this is definitely the aluminium and raw material factory needed for TLM for this case. Thus, the protection of the interests of Croatia's electricity industry as a potential supplier of electricity just to a factory in Mostar, and of course the Republic of Croatia, which, as you mention the 12% owner of the plant and aluminium factory, has extremely large and strong business relations with other significant Croatian business entities, companies and industry. Of course, there is no need to forget what needs to be built on, and this is certainly a protection of interest and of HEP. Of course, I am quite sure that all those who participate today in creating a new business relationship will take care of the protection of all these factors in this contract and that the most qualitative solution will therefore be made to continue production in TLM, that there is a secure supplier, and that no one in this contract is damaged by a single kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52840	Thank you. Mr. Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52841	I thank you, Mr. Minister. I am really happy when I heard this answer, because it is very important to save therefore and jobs, and to continue further cooperation, especially given that aluminum in Mostar is actually the largest exporter in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in fact the power that binds itself to numerous businesses in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in Croatia. Therefore, of strategic interest that further cooperation and, if I may, I would even suggest that the possibility of a direct agreement with aluminium in Mostar may be considered in terms of direct conclusion of the contract in terms of electricity, i.e. the power supply of that large combination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52842	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we start with the afternoon session and start with the first item of the established agenda, which is 1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Golf Courses, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 535 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the act by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Tourism, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Justice. A report from the board's session was also delivered to you. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Mr. Željko Leonard is the secretary of state. Does the Proposer's representative want to address himself first? Yeah. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52853	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Golf Courses has been drawn up by the Ministry of Tourism and other resolution ministries and experts from the Government. In addition, we received a positive opinion from the Croatian State Attorney's Office on the professional side, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, social partners, employers and trade unions and of course more or less the entire tourist sector. Why were changes and additions made to the law? Because this is how the old law is simplified. Because the old law didn't bring what we wanted, and we wanted investments in the context of tourism development. The media story led to the fact that even those who had the right to benefit from the Law on Golf Courses did not want to do so because of the concern that the media would react to it. The accusations that the law leads to the concreteisation of the Republic of Croatia and how it brings strange investors did not happen because we do not have a single request to build a playground under the current law. The question of how this will affect the environmental aspect is not currently questionable, since the law did not seek urgent treatment in the matter of environmental science. Some of the basic differences proposed by the amendments and additions to the current Golf Courses Act are the meaning of eradicating the fact that the construction of a golf course is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia because it can be determined in accordance with the Law on Privileges, erasing at least the area for a golf course that has been 85 hectares so far. It is proposed that the golf course, in a narrow sense, must have at least 9 and not more than 18 holes, that the density of construction is determined by spatial planning documents and that it must not occupy more than 25% of the floor area on which the construction of catering and tourist buildings is envisaged. Of those 20% of the total playground, only 25% is for construction. In the process of issuing a local permit for the construction of a golf course in a narrow sense, the scope of the space procedures is no longer determined, the possibility of the establishment of catering and tourist facilities is aligned with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Special arrangements for the extradition process and minimum technical standards for golf courses will be deleted by a regulation adopted by the Minister responsible for Tourism, with the agreement of the Minister responsible for Spatial Planning and Construction, rather than by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, the very fact that the number of playgrounds in England is 1900, Germany 500 to 600, Slovenia 12, and we are only 3, turns out that those 3 have been made in the last 20 years so that Slovenia would reach some 80 years if we continue at this pace. A year ago, it was claimed that this apartmentisation and concreteization would take place, the robbery of land, but here is the law that is now in force that did not happen. And today we have two thesis, that the law needs the opinion of the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and another thesis that it is not necessary. I remind you this law was made in cooperation with the DORH. It is supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the trade unions, the tourism sector and this proves that this law is the so-called law. The law on golf courses certainly needs the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52854	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor on behalf of the board? Yeah. Legislative Committee, colleague Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the 91st session held on 28 April 2010, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Golf Course with the final proposal for the law. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. On the text of the final proposal of this law, the Committee shall submit the following amendments, a total of 3 amendments. The first of them is in Article 2. In Article 2, the new word is deleted in terms of the nomotechnical arrangement itself. The second amendment is, on Article 11, Article 11, amended and reads: "Article 13 is amended and reads, the Minister responsible for tourism rules with the agreement of the Minister responsible for spatial planning and construction prescribes minimum technical standards for golf courses." Therefore, the legal and non-technical arrangements shall be made, in particular, because it is a regulation that is being amended, an apology on a provision that is amended in a way that amends paragraph 1 of paragraph 2. deletes what needs to be regulated, and in a text editorial before its publication, the same shall be done in relation to the content of Articles 1 and 3. The third amendment referred to in Article 11 shall also be added to Article 11a, which reads as follows: Article 14 is amended and reads as follows: The 14th law will be passed by the Minister in charge of tourism within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law." The reasons for this amendment are, therefore, in view of the amendment to Article 13, it is necessary to amend Article 14 as those standards are required to prescribe a minister responsible for tourism, so by regulation, and not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by means of a regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52856	Thank you very much. Do the reporters from other committees want to take the floor? Committee on Tourism, here you go, colleague Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52857	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 30th session held on 28 April 2010, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Golf Courses with the Final Proposal of the Law, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 15 April 2010, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee on Tourism discussed the final draft law in question on the basis of Article 69, paragraph 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body and, in particular, concerning tourism programmes of particular importance for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. An introductory presentation on the reasons why the amendment and addition of the Law on Golf Courses with the Final Bill was proposed by Mr Branko Grgic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism. Amendments to the Law on Golf Courses suggest erasing the provision that golf courses are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. The enforcement process will no longer be possible through the existing Golf Act, but will be implemented in accordance with the Law on Execution. The amendments would allow the user of the expropriation if there are reasons to justify the need for an emergency procedure in his possession prior to a final decision on the exemption to apply for entry into possession of the competent office of the state administration, the county or the city of Zagreb. ...to be approved if he submits evidence that the previous owner is on behalf of... some other relevant property or was paid compensation. Furthermore, the amendments also delete the provisions on the lower limit of the 85 hectares golf course, and define that the golf course must have at least 9 holes. The provisions on the density and construction of buildings are also specified so that they do not occupy more than 25% of the total floor area on which the building of catering tourist buildings intended for accommodation is planned. As for the possibility of standing up with amendments and addition laws, it is in line with the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which regulates the possibility of staging a catering tourist building. The minimum technical standards for the golf course will be governed by a regulation that will be passed by the tourism minister. State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism Mr Branko Grgic stressed that Croatia currently has only three golf courses after 20 years, unlike us concrete tourist countries. For example, Spain has 300 golf courses, Slovenia 11, Austria 150. The promoter concluded that golf as a possibility of enriching the tourist offer in the off-season periods is one of the specifics of the overall development of tourism. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Golf Courses... improve their application, simplifying certain provisions of this law and applying general rules governing the area of construction of empowerment. The Committee on Tourism has already requested, in the first proposal of the Law on Golf Courses, which was discussed at the session on 2 December 2008, that the law go into two readings, not by an urgent procedure which is not accepted. The proposed existing law after a year and a half goes into change and no accompanying acts are adopted. Article 3(1) states that golf courses in a narrow sense have been built and prepared to play golf with at least 9 holes and should primarily request the opinion of the profession on that provision. The question has been asked whether other European countries have the Golf Act. The law as such does not... the development of golf should primarily focus on encouraging measures that would contribute to its development, so it is stressed that the adoption of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land is an unrated process of conversion and privatisation, the possibility of giving concessions to hotels to expand the offer and construction of golf courses and other measures with existing facilities. That the law must be compatible with European legislation, all present have expressed support for the development of golf in Croatia as one of the possible means of expanding the tourist offer and extending the tourist season. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament decided with 5 votes for and 6 against not supporting the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Golf Courses with the Final Bill. The chairman of the board suggested that the Law on Golf Courses be put out of effect. With that in mind, 6 votes were cast in the majority and 5 votes against the next conclusion. The Tourism Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament that the Law on Golf Courses "National Journal" 152/08. Put it out of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52858	Thank you very much. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. There's no interest. The Justice Committee, too. Then we're going to a club debate. The first joined the SDP club and, on behalf of the SDP club, a colleague of MPs, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52859	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. At the very beginning of the presentation on this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Golf Courses with the Final Proposal of the Law, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will not support the adoption of this law. The first and basic reason for our opposition to this bill is that it is deeply unfair and creates a division between Croatian citizens and citizens. How? In a way that the state is much more prone to a narrow group of people, particularly investors in golf courses. But for those who do not want to invest in such projects but in others, I am free to say in Croatia much more significant and useful projects. About the unbalanced approach of the state towards people and communities who may be directly denied or discriminated against by the implementation and implementation of the provisions of this law, not to mention. And this group of people is significantly more numerous than a handful of interested investors whose proposal is just like the law passed in 2008. First of all, the basic question that all of us who and we are sitting in this House have to answer is. Why should we even raise our hands for this bill, why are we even dealing with this problem in such a separate legal form? It is a law that is extremely selective in relation to other sports and tourist activities that encourages the construction of golf courses. Why? Because golf as a sport is quite unargumented isolated by our government tourist officials as something that will greatly enrich our tourist offer and significantly extend the season. However, there are a whole range of other sports and sports activities which Croatia can also extend the tourist season, activities that do not cause such recommendations and controversy, division and potential environmental problems, but which do not stand out as activities of interest for the Republic of Croatia or are written about by specific laws. Why is it that if the extension of the season and the enriching of tourism offer is the goal of this law, then we do not have a special law on eco-tourism, which is one of the fastest growing and most pro-pulsory forms of tourism and would certainly not cause such controversy, and would probably bring much greater benefits to the state and in the form of resource protection and in the form of increasing revenues from tourism. Why do we not have, for example, the Law on Congress Tourism, whose encouragement could also extend the season and increase revenues, not only in coastal Croatia but also in the interior. Why do we not have the Law on tennis courts or bottles, we do not have to stick to the areas of tourism and sports to question the real intentions behind this Law. For example, energy and energy policy, the realisation of energy projects is certainly one of the most vital interests of the state. In the SDP, we believe that energy and energy policy for the country is a more important issue than tourism and yet in the Assembly we have not yet discussed the Law on Renewable Energy Sources or the Government is doing anything smart to encourage the realisation of these for the energy self-sufficiency of Croatia's extremely important projects. Should it be said that Croatia is obliged to realise 20% of renewable energy by 2020 and we today have just over 1% of the energy we receive from these sources. That 20% is one of the obligations we have towards the European Union and yet we are not doing anything to realize that objective and obligation. However, on the other hand, the Government and the ruling have strongly resisted to push through this new Law on Golf Courses, another unconstitutional bill, under the influence of promoting vital economic tourism interest. I can be of interest, but that interest is certainly not public and state-owned and it is quite clear from this bill. In the SDP Club, we are aware that this bill, which changes the original form of the law, is now being discussed for two reasons. The first is that in this way, the government is solving the confusion that the Constitutional Court is solving constitutional lawsuits of a whole series of associations and a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of this Act submitted by the SDP Club, abolishing another anti-constitutional law forged in the Government's tycoon workshop. The second reason is that these changes continue to be extremely beneficial for investors interested in the realisation of the golf course. For God forbid that Croatia, like all other democratic states in the world, will lose its famous golf course law. Which is why the construction of the golf course is so much more important than the realization of other tourism, economic or energy projects. Not because Croatia gets 80 new golf courses where rich tourists will walk on green lawns and shoot small white balls with expensive sticks. The main reason why Croatia has this property specialis is that, with the help of it, investors in golf courses or better said related tourist facilities, read apartments, exempt from respecting the provisions of the Law on Exemption, because even after these amendments of the Law, golf investors will have a significantly different treatment, a more favourable treatment in the realization of their projects than those other ones that oblige the provisions of the Law on Exemption. This inequality of investors under the law is so equative that after reading this Act, European bureaucrats could put another obstacle to our entry into such a desirable European Union. Even though the government is working so hard to help golf investors by making such favorable regulations, the fact is that a large number of interested investors are doing a huge bear service because it puts them under a large critical public bat, which is justified by such a manifestation of the state's maternal attitude towards their citizens and citizens. For two years, the government has been aware of this and has calculated its openness to the public by adopting a regulation that should have provided the necessary instruments for the implementation of the applicable Law and thus de facto tied its hands to many investors who were eager to wait for the regulation. It should therefore be said that without the adoption of this Law in 2008, several golf courses would be likely to be realised to date, in accordance with the laws covering the area of construction, spatial expropriation and others. This way, no such project has been implemented, and only by government guilt. Who knows perhaps the real reason for the adoption of the Law on Golf Courses was not the realisation of such projects but the payment of debts to some sponsors from the 2007 election campaign. Although the government is trying to sell us a story that this bill corrects some of the provisions of the applicable law in order to facilitate its application and bridge the gap that divides investors into golf, from all other citizens and citizens of Croatia, the fact that this bill does not correct the many dubiosiss that this whole controversial law causes. And that is why it is not possible to improve this bill in any way. The law on golf courses in Croatia simply does not need it. What Croatia needs are laws that will not be burdensome, insurmountable administrative and any other obstacle to the realization of quality development projects, regardless of whether it is a realisation of golf courses, congress centres, renewable energy sources, health food production or anything else. This Croatia does not have, and Croatia needs this in vain. Not bringing about the position of a specialist that deepens injustices in a but deeply socially divided Croatian society. After this finding of complete unnecessaryness of such a law, we can only sign all the claims of activists and civil society activists, the green action of Gong, Transparency International, which justifiably warn about the numerous failures of this document. Since imposing the obligations of local self-government units to plan a complete infrastructure for the realisation of golf courses, which is absurd and out of every sense because it is a matter of private, em on extremely commercial projects, not projects of a society of infrastructure or of public interest. It is also extremely risky for local sheriffs to allow local self-government units to sell land owned by golf investors without public tendering because it opens the door wide to corruption in an enormous manner. The question arises as to why potential golf investors are allowed to purchase non-urbanised land whose share can be urbanised without any additional cost to the investor. Which is why this unbalanced treatment of golf investors compared to all other investors. Removing the minimum size of a 85-hectare playground allows for further manipulation of this regulation because almost every major land can be declared golf course and urbanised. By reducing the mandatory number of holes from 18 to 9 of the law, the sport standard for golf courses or golf courses is degraded by golf courses. And most importantly, these amendments of the Law continue to allow the exposure of private land owners because of the investor's intention to realize the golf course, which is the right to step on constitutional property rights. The law continues to allow for state land without any public tender. In addition, by removing the limit of the golf course area, the number of golf courses can uncontrollably stir with any new changes in spatial plans, and what this can represent for the nature and environment of our country, we do not need to speak. At the very end, we would like to stress that although the government is trying to boast all opponents and opponents to this scandalous law, it is because of this scandalous law that they are pushing arguments from the field of environmental protection as alleged key to the opposition to this Law, and here it is said that the opposite of gestures of blocked nose by government officials, such arguments stand entirely for the realisation of golf courses is extremely invasive towards the environment and in terms of excessive deforestation and in terms of single water consumption of grass on playgrounds and in terms of the consumption of vast quantities of pesticides, herbicides and conventional fertilizers. The main reasons for the opposition to this law are, however, not an ecological but economic and legal or better stated reason for the fundamental constitutional justice and equality before the law, because this bill creates a huge gap between the few privileged and the most deprived, and it strongly resembles a dreary black period of tycoon privatisation when several years in an unprecedented law-protected robbery the most valuable Croatian economic resources, businesses, hotels, real estate, property. With this law, the area of predatory is transferred to valuable unbuilt land and natural resources, mainly in the coastal area, which requires that every responsible politician and politician face the sharpest opposition. As a responsible party, the SDP is most resolutely resisted and therefore we will not support the adoption of this law or any other law that exempts and favours the construction of a golf course from any other projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52860	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to the quote. First of all, dear colleague Davor Huška. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Holly said that the government is doing nothing smart to encourage development and investment in renewable energy sources. That's not true. I would ask my colleague if she has heard of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund in Croatia that exists. You can open his page, you can go upstairs. One great team works in this fund and offers a whole series of projects that subsidize...... That's why I'm asking. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It subsidises the state budget and will be happy to show you what projects it is, how the government through the state budget encourages a whole series of new energy projects, the production of energy from biofuels, from agricultural, forest waste, the promotion of investment in wind power plants, solar energy sources and various other energy sources to renewable energy sources so that this finding really does not stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52862	Thank you. And colleague Markovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52863	Here's what I have to say to my colleague because she's been really successful in studying her party's history, so she's trying to rewrite it at this time. Let's just say, he's blaming the assumption that the government has a tycoon workshop. No, if he did, he'd borrow from you Goran Stroka as chief advisor and the main tycoon product of the SDP. Secondly, I don't like the insults. I'm like a longtime mayor, sheriff and local sheriff. The local sheriffs are gone, you have the mayor, unless you're referring to the local sheriff from Mljet, from the Koprivnica that sells land, resorts to invaluableness.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52864	Thank you very much. Correct the hint when raising this table. Next comes the discussion of the club IDS, a colleague of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52865	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Indeed, when it comes to this matter, it is above all necessary to stand firm on earth. It is clear that energy needs to be discussed, it would not be bad to talk during today and about shipbuilding. At exactly 2:00 p.m., so an hour and 30 hours ago, the second deadline for privatisation of Croatian shipbuilding expired. It's soon to be sold... I don't know who he's meant to be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He doubts that when it comes to shipbuilding, the Croatian Privatisation Fund will receive a relevant offer. But let's let it go now, so I can get back to the golf course. I've never held a golf club in my life, you see, nor am I personally involved in golfing, and I don't need to justify myself higher than that. But what's the point when it comes to this saga we tie to golf? But before I say so, I will personally defend this in need of golf, but I will also represent the thesis that we do not need the Golf Act. Which is behind this whole case, which positions let's say here first the county. Countys, as you're familiar with, don't have a single centimeter of farm, or so on. tourism, construction or forest land. So that's true. Agricultural or forest land is exclusively available to the State, i.e. private owners. What's the further position of the county? On the proposal of municipalities or golf cities, they include in their spatial plans. What's the matter with that? I personally don't see anything controversial. However, I assure you that today and I know a lot of people who have property somewhere where golf course is planned, so the owners of that agricultural land, they are very much urbanized through that form, as you are also careful there is no one but perhaps my father who is against his agricultural land being declared a building land. Why doesn't anyone mind getting that land a golf stamp? So because his value is going to increase overnight by 5, 10 or 25 times. However, when we talk about agricultural land in Istria, this agricultural land is generally more expensive on average than in Luxemburg, which note is the richest European state. Three times this land is more agriculturally expensive than in one Carinthia, than in one Lombardy, Friuli, Catalonia, and so on. So our citizens are absolutely in favor of resuscitating this agricultural land for example. In those golf stamps because by selling one of those squares tomorrow they'll be able to buy 5m2 of agricultural land. It's one rational human logic that no one in their right mind can dispute. For golf, it's also all those who are gravitating that space. Why? So because locals work better, because accommodation is better because it automatically raises the standard of that tourist destination. It's not the point of golfing at this point, and I want to say, that, with that field or on that field, 20 or 30 or 40 workers are hired, but simply through golf, a certain construction activity happens, to hire a normal construction company with a construction mechanism, that this company then pays VAT for these completed works, to make the sale of construction materials happen and so on. Here's an example. I think that two Saturdays ago I also sat with people who are interested in entering with a mechanism on two golf courses where only construction works are estimated at 8m euros, meaning 16m euros if they come in simply with their companies have solved their existence over a year. Otherwise, maybe each of them will fire 20 or 30 people. Let's just say that like someone here said about golf, we need 80 ha. These are, say, two average farms in the hilly Austria. But in Istria 80 ha, it means 800,000 square meters times at least 10 euros that's 8 million euros of which again let's 5% go for real estate tax. But then, but it's actually a little bit. Then you need at least 8 to 10 million euros to make that golf course happen. So the state on that basis is going another two and a half to three million euros. VAT of 23% is paid and then contributions are made, etc. Mr. Cicak calculated at one point, so the president of HHO to make the state of Croatia 40 billion euros in golf. If so, if Croatia can earn 40 billion euros on golf in a year, then we should immediately go golfing. Why? Because golf would solve all our problems in this country. Why? Well, from VAT, the state would, on that basis, be incometing 10 billion euros. The building would flourish in this country, pensions, social security would simply be able to solve it. But also that there wouldn't be any confusion here not, as I would say, there's no such interest in golf as some just think. Here recently on May 16th, so a few days ago I read a text in the Evening List that literally says the projections are not bright for the next year. Growth is expected to be less than 2%, the lowest of Central European countries. This year, only Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania will be worse than Croatia. This is said at this Zagreb gathering of leading bankers in this region or beyond. I don't know, it doesn't matter. So, I'm afraid that over the next 10 years, I won't be able to realize that I dare say the two or three billion euros Mr. Ladic mentions, a football legend interested in building golf near Ljižnjan. In the next ten years, we may withdraw 500m euros, perhaps withdraw 1 billion euros. And you know what's gonna happen? On these 500m euros, if this happens, the state will receive 100m euros in VAT plus some other taxes, contributions, I don't know. And you know what 100 million euros is? This is about taking care of the charging of the pension system about one quarter of the money that Croatia must provide for one million and eighty thousand pensioners in one month. The other thing I want to say. There are several SDP representatives from the Umag area here. All those who were against the Kempin Mountain yesterday at the Red Summit, or golf today, are actually for it. And then why is it that a man asks himself the question of who would it really be, who wouldn't answer to? So you know who today isn't responsible for competition building such content? Well, first of all, those who use, say, hundreds of acres of so-called. tourism land that has taken over the large former zero kuna tourist systems. That's the point. They're doing it. They create this psychosis. It should simply belong to them, not belong to others. Take a look at the value of real estate in Croatia in the last year. Croatia and Ireland are world champions at the fall of real estate prices. One square meter, for example, of a building, means the apartment in Pula is now being sold for 1000 euros. All of a sudden, everyone's against the price being so low. The question is, how many people are out of work in the building? We'll say so it's none of our business. But neither can we. That has to be our business. How many new hotels have been built in Croatia in 10 years, and I argue that 10 new hotels with over 150 beds have not been built in Croatia in the last 10 years. How many, for example, do I not know in the Primorje-Gorski County where one Krk, Pag, Rab, Crikvenica, Novi, Opatija, Draga, Lovran has built new hotels? Only one was built in Novi via Oresar, or through Hypo Bank, and that is to this day to draw that one saga and the question arises how will this court epilogue end in the end. I don't know about pollution. It is often said in Istria about the story of water, watering, etc. Istra at this point has so much excess water that we throw more than half that water in Mirno, that I don't know how to feed frogs that live there instead of selling and ending up with the remaining 1% of our citizens' water system. Otherwise, just to mention accidentally that Istra is currently covered by a water system of over 99% which is better than in one of Bavaria or Korushko and all of this was done exclusively and only in our direction. And get to be. Is 10 recent years in Croatia built more than 10 new hotels that have, say, 100 or 150 rooms on top? It's not. And as a rule, every golf course carries with it a five-star hotel. Would we have to ask ourselves this question today, for example, if we could set a tourist base for Croatia that we inherited in the 1990s from that system? I'm saying it just wouldn't be possible. No such system if we save the Kempinski up on Savudria has come to life since the 1990s on this side. No camp de facto more serious has been opened in the last 10 or 15 years. None of what I know of the refinery has been built in Croatia in the last 10 or 20 years. No serious factory has been set up in the last 10 or 20 years. So, for any investment in this country we also need this political climate, we also need that climate among NGOs that also some note bene finance among citizens, in the media and the like. It's just a matter. Today in 2010, no Istria tourist, no Adriatic tourist, no Riviera, no Laguna etc. could be built. After the '90s. What was it possible to do? So we could just privatize what's up to the '90s. in these rooms was built, and that's just what hurts. Finally, someone mentioned those tennis courts. Well, there's 260 in one Poreč, so my father must've been 30 years ago, like he was against today, what someone should've just had there. Well, the whole of Istria was against it 30 years ago, but Poreč has 260 of them, and without it, there's no tourist base. Or a case of a boat in Ljižnjan. The municipality is for, citizens too, the County is Istrian too. One owner who has 6 thousand square meters in the complex is also interested in golfing, but that square meter is sold for 500 euros, 500 euros times 6 thousand, so that's 3 million euros. So there is no such thing in Manhattan, while on the other hand one square meter of apartment is sold for a thousand euros in nearby Pula. But which is also important. Tourism has developed in Pula, Medulin, up to one rabbi, we have, say, 70 kilometers of shore, what we look at by these bays, etc., and we don't have a hotel complex in the area, but certainly that could happen with golf. To end, I'll really say golf we need, this hysteria needs to be dissectified, we don't need the Golf Act, I'll be against that law, although perhaps the Mayor, the former mayor, the MP time will deny me and show that without the law for the next 10 years there will be no realisation of the new 2 or 3 golf courses, and it's simply possible. But I'm sure that today with golf, we would extend the season to get new guests, to get new investments, to hire people, and over time everyone would simply accept those investments. However, the climate is what it is, so forgive me if I can defend golf and be against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52866	It's a nice and convenient thesis, but there's a dispute around some other thesis, so we have four applications to correct the allegations. First of all, dear colleague Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52867	So here I am correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Caine who says that no hotel has been built in the Primorje-Gorski County over 150 beds. Well, there are, in Little Losinj, two were built, and everyone has over 300 rooms, so so much for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52868	Thank you very much. Next to correct the quote, a colleague named Mance reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52869	Here's the Honorable Vice President... Mr. Cain said in the end, he gave a confusing speech here that he would not, but I would say like this, there are some very many false allegations, and all we've heard these last days in the debates on golf courses, it comes most from Istria, where in the spatial plan 15 golf courses are mentioned, says Mr. Cain that it has nothing to do with the county. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It has a lot to do with the county, the local community can show it as an interest, but the county office can also prevent it if it doesn't. And that's where all the stories that I've listened carefully to in "Open" started and that confuses this public, which I think is unnecessary, and I don't need to do that because I'm going to give examples later that it's very bad. Furthermore, the other quote, Mr. Caine, shows that it's only a matter of state interest. As far as paying taxes is concerned, it's not just the state's interest. It's also a local community, it's interested in those local caterers and everyone else. So I think we need it, and Mr. Caine really is one of the confusing things that you finally confirmed for yourself and wouldn't, and I don't know who needs it, and don't confuse the public like that. You in Istria have declared 15 golf courses, I don't know then, at least from there there's one perception that then the associations and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52870	Thank you very much. A fellow box, rectification of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52871	Thank you. A fellow Mance, 23 in Istria County are scheduled golf courses, not 17. ... Yeah. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A colleague said that every golf course carries a five-star hotel. In 2003, my colleague Caine was a total of 100 golf courses, and to this day, a new 500 was built and 500 new golf courses were not built, or a 5-star hotel, as you would say. So building golf really doesn't have anything to do with building a 5-star hotel. I don't know where you got that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52872	Thank you. And the last application for correction of the quote, dear colleague Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52873	Thank you very much. So esteemed colleague Cain said that the real estate tax is in the context of this law the income of the state, i.e. the state budget. Real estate tax is not only income, but it is mostly the income of local self-government units, so local self-government units, so municipalities and cities have those specific financial benefits, in any case when it comes to real estate traffic, even in the case of golf courses.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52874	Thank you very much. Follow the debate further. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52875	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. I dare say on behalf of the HNS Club that it is one of the most potentially harmful laws that the Croatian Parliament has ever passed in its history. It sounds a little bit overtly, but there's a whole series of evidence to it, a whole series of potential dangers that open up very important debates. First of all, it's time to take that name off, that prank, that every conversation about the law on golf courses is actually about expanding the anti-enterprise climate. You can tell us the HNS last of them that we're expanding the anti-enterprise climate, but we're totally against this law, because it's not really the Law on Golf Courses, it's the law on building apartment settlements on the edge of the golf course. It's actually his real content. And what's the issue? So isn't the building of apartments an entrepreneurial initiative to be welcomed to say at first sight? The second fama, another prank that suggests that the golf course can function and that it is profitable only and only if accommodation facilities are built next to it. It is a typical spin, and an analysis of the functioning of the looks and contents of golf courses that exist in other countries already a superficial analysis would show that it has nothing to do with life. Golf course can and generally has accommodation facilities only in cases where it is positioned away from existing hotel facilities and other accommodation facilities. No one is going anywhere to allow the kind of construction that this law provides. 25% construction of the total surface. The original law asked for 30, now it's down to 25. And what exactly is a paradox? The existing Construction Act says construction can be allowed up to 10% on tourist land. So where they're hotels, apartment settlements, where it's original activity can go up to 10%, and now the promoter says no there will be an exception, going to 25. What does that actually make possible? When it is combined with other conditions, first of all with the incredible condition of the right of expropriation which is contrary not only to the Law on Privileges but is the question whether it has been suspended because some entrepreneurs, and these are only investors, put golf courses in a completely advantageous position than all other entrepreneurs on the market, and this Constitution prohibits, it is in fact clear that it is all the time talking about favouring the construction mafia. Look at the case of Zagreb, what it looks like when it's built by the construction mob. How many apartments are built and imagine apartments are sold. Who? The regular golfers on that field, well, they're not going to make it. Because the data shows that golf tourism is absolutely the biggest fluctuation and change of guests. Golfers often don't go back to the same playground because there are so many. A good analysis would show what is actually going on in Europe's golf tourism. We're fascinated by numbers, Spain 300, Germany several hundred. Look at the data for the last two years, and you'll see what that actually means. How much income did the owner of the golf course fall. We have made it possible to build 89 golf courses in the Republic of Croatia with spatial planning documentation at this time. They won't be built so much that I don't know what law it is, that's clear. 'Cause that's where the frog raised her leg so she wouldn't get a shoe on her when she saw the horse. But what is extremely profound since the very beginning of how this law even came into existence? We are the only Parliament in the world that has ever passed the Law on Golf Courses. No other state has legally regulated special status golf tourism, not golf playing, golf as a sport. There's no one against him. And that there is something due to testifying and that your Croatian Golf Federation is bitter against this law. So those who really do golf, those who are really golfers, who are recreationals, they give up this law and say it has nothing to do with us, it's not meant for us and it's not built for us. It is of course for tourists to say those who defend this law, but we have not forgotten who welcomed the Minister of Tourism in front of the Parliament's building the night the law was passed. We haven't forgotten which law firm the basic text of this law came out of. And we haven't forgotten who that law firm financed. ... Read the papers, gentlemen of the HDZ, at least you're well informed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're in power and you have all the resources at your disposal. Furthermore, the possibility of an expropriation established by this law is in fact a robbery because private owners who do not want to sell are forced not only to be rescheduled by agricultural land that wants to preserve and process but also to be taken away from them. ... Read the law well, gentlemen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is not only about Dubrovnik and Istria, it is about other parts of Croatia. Which one? 89 is such a location, not all in the coast. Furthermore, this law allows municipalities and cities to sell their property to an investor without any public tender, without any public conditions. Isn't that space for guessing and corruption? Are we aware of that? Why are we going to regulate a particular question like building a golf course when no one in other countries has ever done it? How is it possible that 500 were built in Germany, in Spain 300, and they do not have the Law on Golf Courses? What favored the growth of infrastructure for such a form of tourism, recreation, or sport? Certainly not the law, but the way it's set up is very suspicious. It's not enough for us to have people sitting on this House's parent board on the Tourism Committee for the law to be abolished as such. So the parent board doesn't support this law. In some parliaments, the law could not even come to the plenary session if the parent committee did not support it. We are one of the few in which the opinion of the parent committee is not relevant at all. They'll decide what they want. So the question is, how did we even contribute to the reputation of the House that we're sitting in? Speaking of sports, golf is one thing. To talk about tourism and improving the tourist offer is different, but to talk about favouring, raising this construction limit to 25% at a time when tourist land can only be built 10%, at a time when other regulations speak differently, which are in line with European acquis and European practice, means that someone with a very clear goal is pushing this law to clearly benefit someone. In addition, the question has been raised for a year and a half since the adoption of this Law, wherever spatial planning documentation was prepared, whether it has already been convenient and calmed down all those who were key players in this story. Aren't we actually with these changes and additions, and even with this story came the post-festum, whether they're the biggest already calmed down and if they're not laughing at us tomorrow at the mustache, but if they're laughing at us, it's very good who's to blame for it. You know very well who's to blame for the devastation of space. This proposal requires that the minimum technical conditions are not regulated by the regulation, but lowers it to the level of a sublegal act to be signed by the minister, and only the minimum technical conditions are said. I, in my naiveness, wondered if it was possible to build a golf course in one location, so when they told me exactly what that means, I was terrified. Environmental conditions, possible consequences of building a golf course that does not meet high environmental standards are terrible. The golf course, which is built in the European Union on all kinds of dilute soil, therefore all types of soil other than clay must have a protective foil as the base of the same which is placed in new waste dumps. So whoever wasn't working by those standards would directly compromise exactly on the karst terrain would directly endanger the leak of that terrain all the groundwater supply, and it's known that exactly the maintenance of the golf course requires huge amounts of water, pesticides, artificial fertilisers and all kinds of chemicals. So whoever's responsible for his country, whoever's responsible for the resources that we have left, because everything else we sold out will set the most ecological standards in building the golf course and certainly won't play with the future. But there's no one here who sets these technical standards because the minister will only prescribe minimum technical conditions, how many toilets must be in the following facilities, how high the doors and ceilings are, how many beds can be in the apartment, there's not a word about ecologicality. I've seen one of the environmental impact studies for a golf course in my neighborhood so I can tell you that it's something that you can buy for small money at many consultants and that the mayors of cities whose appetite has grown because someone told them that building a golf course in their neighborhood will bring prosperity overnight. There should be very careful. Golf yes, golf courses yes, but the apartmentization of Croatia does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52876	Thank you. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh showed us a very wide knowledge of the construction of golf courses but he injured Article 209 and Article 210. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Here he brought forth a bunch of lies between the others and the insinuation that the stakeholders were doing this Law, so-called "the Law". the law firm, although it didn't state what offices it was. He imputed that the tourism minister was in agreement with them, which is extremely offensive since the minister is not here and cannot be defended. And what Mr. Advocacy said is for discrediting political inexperiences. If the representative has any knowledge, let him give them a direct name and a last name, not according to the story, she said. I find it inadmissible to impose mud on the minister without responsibility, indeed, such debates should be interrupted, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52878	Thank you very much. We've got a plate back in the air now, Agent Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52879	Mr. Vice President, if anyone has injured Article 109 in this House of Commons, then it's MP Petyr who took advantage of the opportunity to actually defend his party colleague who's supposed to be here today defending this law from what I've been saying. She prevents me from saying what we think I should say on behalf of the club, it's a state-of-the-art indignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52880	I would ask that we go back to the debate, she said 209 and 210, and I really said what she said in 209 in a hurry I didn't read much, this first paragraph of 210 is actually the one that says that when you take a word on the subject, and there were actually speeches and outside the topic, who was in front of the Parliament, and when who was waiting from which workshop, therefore, we know how we use this Rules of Procedure, but on the trail were both these discussions and within our practice. We're going to the corrections of the alleged first distinguished colleague Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52881	Well, here's Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct a few allegations Mr. Richemberg said. He said this law obliges 20% construction, it's just not true. The units of local administrations and self-government are self-organizing the plans and I'm going to tell you the Dubrovnik example where and before this law existed we brought 10% construction and that's what the City of Dubrovnik's GUP predicted, that doesn't mean that we have to increase it to 25% now, that's one. The other one where you talk about expropriation, you don't have to, the law is the possibility, where you talk about expropriation and say it's scandalous, etc. I'll tell you one example, Dubrovnik Golf is planned in one huge, fragile area, there's no talking about agriculture or forestry, of 310 hectares, the investor has managed to buy all 300 hectares, either to rent or not, but in the middle a gentleman who still lives in the last refugee hotel in Dubrovnik lives at the expense of this country but does not want to sell or enter into any relationship with that future investor. Construction of all 310 hectares will be disabled because this gentleman does not want to sell. So when you go into the operational execution of this job and you're in the executive power, then you see what the problem is. And that's why no golf was built in Croatia because there's no way because there's always someone who doesn't want to sell.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52882	Thank you. We didn't open a discussion about sales models, we opened a discussion about golf, and a respected colleague, Damir Cain, was working to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52883	First, to get back to that thesis, I've never held this golf club in my hands in my life. Of course I'm against the Golf Act, but we also need Gorane and golf, which you yourself claim for investment, for an extension of the season, for the prosperity of the end. But what you said, two thesis that I'm correcting. Apartments in Zagreb with golf, let's say it was one of the ideas of building that golf course, but today this idea is more than tense, because within three kilometers of that golf course in Zagreb we have 20,000 unsold apartments. What are we talking about? Or 10% construction on tourist land. But I assure you, nothing will happen there. While the owners can use hundreds of acres of so-called. tourism land without having to pay anyone a single kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52884	Comrade Cain, what are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52885	So because it is said that it is possible to build 10% on these tourist sites that are owned by our tycoons, and of course they will not allow themselves any competition. And does anyone think in this country today where they have any interest in apartments? Well, there isn't. Well, half of them have a thousand unsold apartments. Istria at least 3,000, Croatia at least 40,000. Therefore, be assured golf will not happen so soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52886	You haven't fixed anything. You have confirmed certain thesis and findings, but this is not related to the debate of colleagues of Richembergh. Further to the correction of the quote came a distinguished colleague, Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52887	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a lot of incorrect allegations, I will only correct one in this correction, and it concerns the name of ecological pollution, and when it comes to golf. So let me present briefly, so you colleagues said that the economic consequences can be terrible. It's terrible if that's the case. And I'll say it's absolutely incorrect. To simplify on one golf course from 100 hectares to 50 hectares, nature is untouchable, and in the other part or 50 to 60%, and in this second part 30 to 40% on three to five hectares is more intense treatment either with fertilisers or with what is called anti-disease agents which ultimately relative to... corn production is 1:10. And if that were the case, I have golf in Zapresic, too, but the exercise area is up to all standards. And come to my colleague to tell you that we've treated him for the last year at five acres of the intensive area with two liters of hebricide.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52888	Thank you. The Honorable colleague Roncevic came forward for correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52889	Well, in a sea of incorrect allegations, I'll make one right. In his discussion, a colleague said that this law was harmful and that there was a lot of evidence for it. That's not true. There's no proof exactly that there's a lot of prejudice between colleagues, Beus, under this law. Another incorrect quote, pesticides and harmfulness. This law allows the competitiveness of Croatian tourism to rise. Just as it was tennis 30 years ago, it was also considered to be a hoax in some circles. And I deeply believe that one day when Mr. Cain first takes this stick into his hand he will be the real Tiger Woods in every way. Therefore, you have to believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52890	After that, you and your colleague Cain will determine which component. In addition, a colleague named Roshin reported on the correction of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I can understand, of course, the Assembly is not the area of professional debates. And I know that many debates here take place exclusively within the political frameworks of the pointing of one side or the other. But something that can't happen here must not be a professional illiteracy. Listen, what my colleague said about the technology of the production of golf course, I can bring you movies, I can bring you what I've shot slides, or pictures on that... machine, I can give you lectures from all over the world as golf courses work. And so much so that you know that weeds are not destroyed, because plants are cut. Thus, it does not matter whether it is natural grass or weed. And there are different categories of haircuts. And therefore there are different fellow Turks only in their professional view set the topic on the table. So, all in the technology of producing golf courses, preparing golf courses, everything he said was completely wrong. Politically, it can be uninported, economically, it can be unproportioned. I'm not going to discuss this because these discussions aren't on the table. But don't touch technology if you don't know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52892	Thank you very much. Well, we all know he's the most ecological asset we've ever known, but Cidukor is the most needed, according to who's a bit of a farmer. Is that right, my doctor? Let's get him down the hall and see what the sprinklers are doing. But it's simply today's production technology. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Gary Cappelli. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52893	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and colleagues. Global tourism today plays a significant role in the overall economy and in the national economies of tourism countries. Assessments of the overall economic effects of tourism point to its great importance for the Republic of Croatia and the economy of Croatia. The ratios are worth mentioning that for several years Croatia has recorded more than 10 million arrivals of tourists and over 50 million overnight stays, with almost 11 million arrivals and over 56 million overnight stays only in the economic crisis of 2009. Of course, such numbers generate great additional consumption, which is mainly during the summer months and the peak burden of the tourist season the most significant effects in foreign exchange revenues are achieved. Croatian golf is at the bottom of the country scale with which the Republic of Croatia should be compared. With only three golf courses, Croatia is one of the few European tourist countries that is not classified among golf destinations. It is therefore evident that increasingly important Mediterranean countries where tourism is a significant economic activity have or build their golf regions whose purpose is to modernise the offer of their tourist product, as well as to raise the quality of tourists who come to them on vacation. Golf as a possibility of developing tourism and enriching tourist offer in the off-season periods is one of the specifics of the overall development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia. If we know that within Europe Croatian tourism has a good position, 20th per population, 15th given the number of arrivals, 13th per tourist income, 8th per arrival income, tourism is without a doubt one of the key drivers of the Croatian economy with almost cca and almost 20% share in state GDP. The structure of the guests is significantly changing, so there is no dominant supremacy of a country, penetrated by new entry countries. That is exactly the reason and more to think about such additional projects as golf, as international competition will increase. North Africa and Bulgaria are entering the market as new competitors, and on the other hand, Germany, Italy and Austria will remain the most important broadcasting markets for Croatia in the next 5 years. The strategic goals for Croatian tourism have been achieved by half and by 2010. These appear to be three main strategic objectives: development of a spatial plan, tourist offer and sustainable development. So golf as a possibility for this development of tourism is one of these branches and this law will certainly help to regulate everything we expect from golf. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Golf Courses seek to improve its application by simplifying certain provisions of this law and applying general rules governing the area of construction and expropriation, i.e. in a way acceptable to all interested in the problem of building a golf course in the Republic of Croatia. Not to say again, we know that, given the old and new articles of the December 2008 law, we have amended some of the items. This is the erasure of the fact that the construction of a golf course is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia because it can be determined in accordance with the Law on Exclusion. The new provision requires the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the units of local and regional self-government to adequately, in particular by planning and building infrastructure, support the development of a golf course. Deleting the regulation of a minimum golf course area of 85 hectares, it is proposed that the golf course in a narrow sense must have at least 9 holes, not more than 18. It is understood that the building density is determined by spatial order documents and that it must not take more than 25%. We have heard that, of course, spatial plans accepted by units of local and regional self-government will regulate whether it will be 5 or more percent. So I don't think there must be any confusion here either. By laying down that in the process of issuing a local permit for the construction of a golf course in a narrow sense, the scope of the procedure in the space is no longer determined. The possibility of staging catering and tourist buildings is in line with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction i.e. The possibility of staging special parts exclusively refers to the catering and tourist buildings of the apartment type and the private villa. The Republic of Croatia's units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the legal entities that are owned or established by them are no longer mandatory but are only given the possibility that, at the request of the investor who owns the land at market price, the part of the land needed to form an unbuilt building particle on which it is in accordance with the local permit or urban planning of planning for the construction of catering and tourist buildings, if that part does not exceed 20% of the total area on which the golf course is planned, and in the applicable law there was a limit of 30%. That golf should be recognized and accepted as a service and allow its development in the competitiveness of Croatian tourism also bear witness to the following facts. Today, more than 60 million people in the world are playing golf, more than 7 million of which in Europe. Golf and golf tourism are in a strong growth trend as more and more middle and younger people turn to golf as an ideal form of individual or family sports recreation and rest. I stress the family, because we know that the arrival of most guests in the Republic of Croatia is just a family event that spends much more on golf and golf tourism than an average tourist. The western Mediterranean countries have an average of 6 golf courses per million arrival of tourists, Portugal 6, Spain 5, France 7, Italy 6. In Croatia, the number is 20 times smaller, as to how much of our untapped potential for the development of golf tourism is said to be. Research shows that every other golfer goes on vacation, and every third one goes every year. Croatia as a potential golf destination in its nearby environment of Slovenia and Italy as well as Austria, which due to the concept, which due to winter, has no real competition. I mentioned earlier that our three main countries of which we have the largest number of guests are Italy, Germany, Austria, with the addition of Great Britain, France etc. And precisely Slovenia, Italy, Austria and Germany, precisely because of the harsh winters and climate conditions in that segment, we do not have real competition tomorrow in the winter months. This was precisely the goal of extending the tourist season and all that it does in this direction. In addition to the Western Mediterranean countries, the last year in the eastern Mediterranean, Turkey exploded just as a new golf destination. There are currently 3 golf courses in Croatia that certainly do not match the needs of our tourist offer. In Croatia, the spatial plans of different units of local self-government created opportunities to build as many as 89 golf courses. Of course, given the economic potential, the economy will also be built. By creating a framework and the legal framework that would allow for faster and faster construction of golf courses, and these are one of the essential facts, Croatian tourism could compensate for the backdrop in this area compared to competing countries. Otherwise, it would continue to lag behind in the construction of golf courses, especially in relation to competing Mediterranean countries, thus missing opportunities among other things for the realisation of significant potential revenues from golf tourism, although Croatia has an extraordinary comparative advantage in this segment as the closest hot destination in which golfers from the big market in Central and Eastern Europe can play golf all year round. The solution to a part of the chronic problem of sensationality especially in the coastal area of golf tourists can fill the currently poorly filled existing quality hotel facilities outside the main tourist season and contribute to the significant growth of extra-pansion consumption. The possibility of even more successful building Croatia's image as an elite destination because the inability to play golf in the international public is increasingly stressed as a serious minus Croatian tourist offer. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support these amendments and amendments to the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52894	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is time for the individual hearing to be applied, and a co-legislator Jovanovic appeared to correct the allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I am correcting the incorrect allegations that this law will mean improving tourism and the development of a golf destination in Croatia, which is completely incorrect. This law will do the opposite, because this law, therefore, if we take analogy to countries in the world where golf is developed, have no golf law, then I wonder in what way the Golf Act as the only country in the world will allow the development of a golf destination. This is completely incorrect, because this law not only favours corruption, the sale of national goods, the country's abductions, and the dangers of pollution, imports and legal uncertainty among investors. Because one category of investment puts it in a position of priority over the other. They said civil associations headed by Transparency International Croatia's leading anti-corruption association in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52896	Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HSS club, dear colleague Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52897	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia does not belong to large countries by its surface area of 56542 km2. However, there are many islands, long and divorced coasts, rich and different geographical potentials, relatively untouched water sources, spacious plains, beautiful blue seas, etc. There's a lot more to go on. Our country is, by its natural means, a challenging, interesting and very potent country. The general view relating to its development is the development of agricultural production and the enriching of the tourist offer, and the merger and mutual supplementation under the quotes of green and blue Croatia creating an attractive tourist destination. The aim is to make agricultural products from the so-called so-called agricultural products. The green Croatians place and sell for the needs of guests in blue Croatia. The fact is that other tourist countries have a significantly longer tourist season and do not depend exclusively on the sun and the sea and the successful ministry as it is with us. In fact, the diversity of their offer just guarantees them full capacity and beyond the main tourist season. Croatia has been long for years, due to weather instability, which due to some other factors facing the maximum tourist season of up to 3 months. Of course, such a short season cannot have as much financial effect as it would be if it were longer, so the offer of our tourist facilities has to change qualitatively, providing different opportunities. The Law on Golf Courses is one of the steps towards changing the qualitative offer and creating a prerequisite for investing investors in our country. And it is not true what he said just before that other countries do not have the golf law, but they have problems with their laws precisely because of the construction of a golf course. Look at what the Czech journalists write about it. Golf is certainly one of those sports that really promotes vacation, i.e. golf and attracts tourists. According to the available data, the average golfer is between 35 and 55 years old and in early October, moving until April to the southern Mediterranean with his family. On the road, an average of ten days, statistics say, spends about 150 to 200 euros daily, or about 1500 to 2000 euros during a ten-day vacation. This individual income multiplied by the number of golfers and their family members could be a significant source of income for units of local self-government, but also for the whole country, and the particular attractiveness of such guests is that they do not come beyond the main tourist season. This is certainly the type of guest Croatia should attract and could contribute to Croatia’s finally stopping recording the exclusive number of overnight stays and arrivals, but instead starting to collect revenues from potential tourists. Multiplicative effects can be further enhanced by networking services of products and offers near certain golf courses offering together different attractive entertainment and gourmet pleasures, which would certainly contribute to increased extra-board consumption and better earnings. It is also important to recognise the possibility of bringing golf together with congress tourism, sports tourism, and connecting golf with ordinary tourist travel. The Republic of Croatia has the potential to develop golf tourism, we are aware of that. But of course there is also a need to create adequate preconditions for investing investors. 11 years ago, so long ago in 1999, the then government of the Republic of Croatia established a programme of golf development in Croatia as a strategic direction of development and raising the quality of Croatian tourism, and united individual efforts of local self-government and established a list of locations of strategic importance for the country. cca 60 golf courses were then planned in Croatia. Despite the government's conclusion over the past 20 years, only 3 golf courses have been built in Croatia. If we look at countries from the environment and our interesting countries, we will see that Slovenia whose surface is 20273 km2 has 8 golf courses built and records around 7300 players. The Czech Republic has an area of 78866 km2 and 80 golf courses, 140 golf clubs and 50,000 registered players. In Austria, with an area of 83871 km2 some 150 golf courses were built and recorded about 90000 players. Spain, whose surface is almost ten times larger than Croatia, has about 300 golf courses and over 270,000 players. Countries like Germany, France, Sweden, Italy have long recognized the benefits of golf development and attracting golfers. Golf becomes what used to be a boat or tennis. Without the golf course, there is no real tourist development. Golf is a sport that carries with it building high quality resources, raising service quality levels, high-class hotel, and highly educated management. All of this raises quality service, quality of service, which is very important in attracting guests, and will also help build Croatia as a destination of high and quality tourism. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Golf Courses with the final proposal of the law improved the text in relation to the existing law which entered into force on 1 January 2009, however, it is necessary to consider some proposed provisions such as in particular Article 1(2), as the units of local and regional, or regional self-government are subject to the obligation to adopt spatial plans, including golf courses, and thus support the development of their construction. According to available data, it is planned to build a golf course on non-urbanised land, where there are no road infrastructures, no water, no electricity, no sewers, and this should be financed by a local and regional, or regional self-government unit for often a private partner. The minimum size of the playground, of 85 hectares, was also abolished, and Article 3(1) reduced the golf course standard from 18 holes to 9 holes, thus allowing the drawing of golf courses in spatial plans across a range of locations. The law does not regulate the number of playgrounds, but their number is planned by spatial plans, so the number of playgrounds can be increased indefinitely by future changes in spatial plans. This is precisely what we are coming up with, under allegations in Istria, where local self-government units in Istria county have practically listed over 20 golf courses, some Istra advocates say it is not enough either, and ultimately it will not vote for this Golf Act. Deleting Article 9 is potentially dangerous since under the current law, there is a certain restriction that private landowners will be able, if the investor lacks 20% or less of the total area, in favour of investors in the golf course. By erasing this article, it could be understood that in the future it would be possible to rule out the entire area needed for the golf course, provided that some units of local or regional self-government are foreseen so in the spatial plan, although the exemption will be carried out under the Law on Execution rather than the Law on Golf Courses. But for that I believe that the Secretary of State will also explain, i.e. give some answers. As regards Article 3(2), vague terms are used in my view, and in addition, it is not defined how much the total floor area on which the construction of catering and tourist buildings intended for accommodation can be planned is already left to be defined in the spatial order documents, which opens possible space for corruption, i.e. the guessing. The development of golf brings with it certain issues such as water consumption, pesticide use, we have heard about it today, the disturbance of the natural landscape, urbanisation of the area, the Stalinisation of drinking water, and so on. However, we must also be aware that the development of golf is linked to economic development, social improvement and the concept of sustainable development. This must therefore take into account integrated environmental management, economic development, and the well-being of people not only for today's generation but also for those who will only come in perspective. Thus, the construction of golf courses and the development of golf tourism can include balanced and good economic development, high levels of employment, adequate levels of environmental protection and responsible use of natural resources, and established good communication between golf organizers and interest groups for environmental protection. Fulfillment of these points leads us towards a good path to make maximum use of the positive effects of golf development in our area, with real environmental protection with caring treatment for residents of the same area. Finally, the Croatian Peasant Party club supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Golf Courses, believing that it creates a good opportunity for long-term, quality development, a large number of capacities, guarantees the placement of agricultural products from the so-called green Croatia also attracts guests of higher pay opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52898	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction, a distinguished colleague of Vrbat's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52899	Thank you very much. My colleague Klemenic, I'd like to correct the next quote. I believe you didn't think of me when you mentioned some fellow representatives from Istria who claim that 20 golf courses in Istria are not enough. 20-ac, in fact 23 planned golf course is certainly a lot too much and it certainly is my opinion, I don't know about other fellow representatives from Istria, and I also have to mention that your entire statement on behalf of the club is one big false allegation because in many ways you have quoted what GONG and the green action has sent as an explanation of this law, i.e. the unnecessaryness of this law and, of course, this bill is supported. It's completely incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52900	The question, the understanding, the misunderstanding, it's a personal matter, but we're going on, now and for individual debates. The first was submitted to the application, and a distinguished colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, is on her way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, the esteemed secretary of state, respected citizens and citizens, and especially the owners of any land, whether it's under the forest, whether it's agricultural or constructional, the HDZ's attention is in action. And as you lost your jobs in the '90s, like all these years you've lost something in common and it's privatized, and what you've created, right now in HDZ, it's a wonder that you're not willing to sell something that's your father-in-law, something that's your grandfather's. But not for long. Golf, or the proposal of the Law on Golf Courses, is a great intensity of the HDZ to separate you from this fatherland of yours, from your grandfatherland. Where did that idea of golf come from, maybe a little bit of reminding ourselves of some of these bizarre things. The golfers are coming to say it comes from a shortcut, that it's essentially an acronym gentlemen only, lalies forbidden. So the very fact where there's only something for gentlemen, and for the ladies forbidden originally was, speaks at all about both this and the nature of this game. I may not be competent to talk about it at all, about the game itself, but a good knower, the best acquaintance of English opportunities and the troubles of especially high society a great cynic, but the discoverer and discoverer of this rotten Oscar Wilde Society for the golf game has said that this is one bad way to ruin a good conversation. And basically this bill of law as much as it is on the trail of correction and a clue that at least the most radical examples and articles found in the law, which have caused our reaction by seeking the word of the Constitutional Court, so you've corrected something. But a little, a little and not enough. As a matter of fact, the law remains an eclectic example of political corruption, because it speaks not of bribery and corruption later than in the beginning, in laws, which is the most dangerous form of political corruption. So, where one particular group that imagined it came to you last time the Golf Law was passed, went to the Ban Courts and bowed down and thanked you for passing that law. So they weren't even so careful that apparently the representatives who followed them came, waited and congratulated the part of the government for doing this very important law for them. So that's what colleagues used to talk about, a colleague of Mirela Holly saying on behalf of the club, so I wouldn't talk about it anymore because it's perfectly clear. Which is why the applicant's intensity is where he basically Croatia likes to see as the entire golf course. Has it come to this point that golfers, golf courses, will save Croatia? Well, it's something out of your mind. Is it possible that Croatia needs the Golf Act at all? Why don't you law on the bollocks, on the bottles like someone says? The law on throwing shoulders off rocks, rocks off your shoulders? Do you even, why the law on any other sport? About basketball, about football where we're more famous? Football fields, basketball courts? No, it's the Golf Act because it's the property that needs to be taken, and our fatherland and grandfather who sees if the insolence of citizens doesn't sell them. They live hard, and they don't want to sell their grandfathers. And HDZ wonders and finds ways to take it away from them. Now he says he's not going to go exactly by special provisions of expropriation, he's going to go by the general provisions of execution. What a comfort. So, many associations, you often fantasize if anyone or anyone backs your bill, you come with that argument as a crown proof of the validity of the law of a person, or a proposal, and there is no association here that has not appeared against such a law. She recognized in this kidnapping and robbery and no one. Transparency International Organisation reported, Mr. Zorislav Petrovic, saying exactly about the corruption law, and it is, above all, the duty of the authorities to pass laws that will prevent corruption. So there's no way this law could improve tourism, there's only one ill-covered intention of concreteisation and apartmentisation. That's enough of that. The question also arises where did this data come from that in Europe, and you also waved that data, that as much as 60 million games of golf, and we would offer them golf courses. You talked here about how many Germanys there are, how many Italys, how many Austrias there are, but don't talk about how many Western Mediterranean countries have on average golf courses, only 6. So the question arises, so because this law here sets, there are lots of holes. The basic question is, when is it so profitable, why are you forcing this law and units of local self-government to build infrastructure, that without compensation, the re-purposed land from agricultural or forest to construction, into the golf course? For what? When it's so profitable and that golf investor can only profit. When there are so many golf courses that they can't wait for us to build a playground and so they can play there. So, played on our fatherland, on our grandfather's. But you say that would open up a lot of jobs. What jobs, gentlemen? For our young men, for our men what to be? To be caddy? To be happy if they will be beside their own fatherland and grandfather, you have appointed them to be bearers of sticks. What if they were women? Happy if they can be housewives in a nearby apartment and entertainment. Is this the fate this Croatian government has imagined for our people besides its own property? Gentlemen, here I believe while you citizens greet with 9 holes telling them that citizens are 18 holes, that last hole in that big playground might still have something good in this bill. You're going to be so upset with this law, it's going to make the citizens angry, and it's a good prerequisite for changes in the elections that are coming at a dizzy speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52902	Thank you. Time's running out, but to use it rationally we're going first to correct the allegations. Dear colleague Dubravka Shuica answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52903	Well, here's a colleague of mine. She said she's surprised at HDZ that she won't sell or sell her grandfather's. I believe it was what she said to me. I mean, I wasn't surprised, but I explained in practice why these projects can't be realized. You in a very convenient verbal manipulation, I must say now take advantage of the opportunity and say that their grandfathers are being kidnapped by Croatian citizens. It's because you know it as a lawyer, because it's about allowing it not to be expropriated, or God forbid nationalization, which was in the former system of our predecessors, but rather about expropriating where the land is purchased under market conditions. It's just not true, and it's manipulation. Another incorrect quote, and there were many, you said that, is that fate that is meant for our people to be maids, carriers, etc. Just before, Mr. Cain explained how a construction operation would be launched. You know for a fact that the communal contribution was huge for local administration and self-government units. You yourself know that the rest of the duties would also be paid to cities and municipalities and a lot, there are many positive consequences unlike this catastrophic step you want to politicise, and you don't actually want to talk about the development of any units of local administration and self-government or the development of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52904	Thank you. Correction by colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52905	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before I fix my colleague Ingrid, I'd like to commend her first. She gave a real male political speech, didn't philosophy about golf, it's meant to be understood what I want to say about golf and what that shortcut means. My colleague took a piece of that take-out text from me. Of course, it's not about taking away, it's about exorcism. We've got powers under the second law, normally what you know, and it's not about that takeover that they took away from me and my family. And I haven't been able to return to this country what was taken from me. And another thing. you're saying if golf is so profitable, that golf is not at all profitable as a playground, like a sports court, but golf is being rented is paid through what is glued to that golf course, golf is just an echo to make it happen. As for number 9, I guess, and you know that everything about 9 is always 9, that twice 9 18 is 9 again in sum, 3 times 9 is 27 again is 9, 4 times 9 is 36 in sum again 9, so there's some symbolization that's very positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52906	So it's about who and the player, the last hole, right? Next, a colleague named Petyr came forward for correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of mine incorrectly claimed that the citizens of the government were 18 holes, which I consider to be quite an ominous statement. It falls into a kind of manipulation and twisting of truth and the application of this law in order to attack the Government rather than propose concrete improvements to the law if such proposals are made by a representative or by a SDP club at all. It's also an incorrect statement that this law is taking away our grandfather's grandfatherhood because we remember our grandfather's taking away in '45. And today that mentality has some sitting here. And let's remember at that time they were not only taking away their grandfather's and grinding their attics. I therefore call on this law not to be used for such political purposes as we had just heard before but to be presented here in the Assembly if there are good suggestions and remarks to get the best possible law, not to listen to such remarks as we heard earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52908	Thank you. Two replicas, first of all, my colleague Verbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52909	Thank you. My colleagues Antičević-Marinović, you have well stated that in many Mediterranean countries and European countries there are numerous golf courses. However, all these countries do not have the Law on Golf Courses, which makes us unique. We've emphasized that more than once today, and so will I. It's our own kind of specific instrument. But it has been mentioned many times today that tennis used to be fashionable. I come from a small town of 15 thousand residents who have planned four golf courses and we have the only real tennis tournament in the country, it's the city of Umag. He used to be fashionable tennis, but we didn't have a tennis law, and I'm surprised we didn't have him because our former president of the state liked to play tennis, like our former Prime Minister liked to play golf, so I believe this law is at least in a small part of the homogey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52910	Thank you very much. The government's presidents obviously like to play sports. And for a reply to the replica, a colleague of Antičević-Marinović reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52911	Not only do we not need the Golf Act, we need neither the government's support nor the local self-government units to build golf courses. Which investor wants to build, let him make a nice buy-out. There were such honest people who bought it. Which is why the government and local self-government units would have to, especially local self-government units, make infrastructure, so to favour the opening and construction of golf courses next to facts, when the government closes hospitals, closes courts, closes FINA offices, and means it's fate to open golf courses.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52912	And the next replica of my colleague Franic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52913	Dear fellow Anticevic, you mentioned that there are no financial indicators in this law whatsoever that this law will pass. The more it is said in the assessment of the necessary resources, that the implementation of this law does not require the funds of the state budget, since the law does not provide for the obligation for the infrastructure to be built specifically for needs, but it can also be ensured by the use of existing infrastructure or by ensuring the use of the infrastructure for which the construction is... the projected funds of local self-government are provided. So this law not only represents institutionalized corruption but represents an institutionalized racket, because perhaps the most attractive terrain can be found in those units of local self-government where nature is most beautiful. Therefore, the poorest units of local self-government with the exception of perhaps Istria will still be forced to finance the infrastructure and have no money for their own survival.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52914	Answer to the replica of colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52915	What I have mentioned, therefore, is not only that such a law cannot withstand the control of constitutionality, 6 provisions have been applied by the motionor in our constitutional suit, simply out of fear and shame that he is not further baffled. However, this provision of Article 13(2), which has now been modified, was initially in direct contrast with the Constitution which requires that the law requiring financial resources should provide for their sources. They said these funds would earlier be secured there in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and did not say in what amount. Now they're doing it a little bit, so in this way they're really burdening local self-government units directly and indirectly, first of all by taking away that land re-use income, they forgot this other way you're talking about, to provide them with municipal infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52916	Thank you. The debate goes on. Dear fellow Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52918	There's no record, but if the service says so, then I believe. My colleague Lesar will wait a minute because that's how long the correction takes, and then he will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52919	I appreciate what my colleague said, but definitely a finding that was in the context of the HDZ and the syntagma by getting hold of the property doesn't stand. She's malicious and the situation is reversed. When it comes to land and due to proper perception, we are not the ones who are going to make golf courses in our districts, but fundamental thinking about it are the county and ine congregations bringing spatial plans that say there can be golf here, after the city's spatial plan that says there can be golf here and then GUP and urbanism, and then the city can say that, I want to sell those up to 20% of the golf plot, and if I don't want any obligations to build golf. So, maliciously, good intentions are interpreted, and units have county and local self-government as to whether such ideas and reflections will be carried out in action. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52920	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, here you go. I won't take your word for it. It's your 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52921	They've all been straightened out by now, yes. Thank you very much. I want to believe first, and there will be time for you to correct me, and I will give you plenty of reason. I want to believe that the authors of this law were not even aware of how much they helped first in the product of the new national souvenir. In fact, I suggest you propose to the tourist community to translate the Golf Act into at least 20 foreign languages and to share it here in Mark's square with groups of tourists in all languages because indeed no tourist in the world will be able to find the Golf Act. Such a souvenir will gladly pay 5 euros for boasting that it has a unique law on the globe, and instead of that asshole in the video write a small country for mass golf. It's the intensity of this law. A small country for mass golf. This is a continuation of the creation of the legislative framework. With the help of the state, the private owner kidnaps another private owner of the land, with the intervention of the state and nothing else. If golf is important for the development of tourism, and we are not discussing golf as part of the sport, but building a golf course, then normally we should help with laws and their discussions to supplement some of the tourist offer with such a kind as golf. But we're not discussing the development of golf, we're talking about how we're going to make private investors feel like they're coming to the golf course, and under particularly favourable conditions, we're going to conduct an investment in the construction of the golf course. Therefore, the State shall intervene in the kidnapping of private property with the Authority. It declares it a national interest, so under the construction of a hospital or highway, it's really not good. But if we take other countries as an example that without the golf law built hundreds of golf courses, then it's just proof, gentlemen of the government, that you haven't studied how they got to these golf courses without a special law. And now I'm asking the following, gentlemen of the State Secretary, I'm talking to you, I'm asking the following. The Republic of Croatia owns a million and 100 thousand hectares of agricultural land, of which 350 thousand hectares of unprocessed land. The Republic of Croatia owns 2 million hectares of forest, large part of which are chicars and abandoned, karst, etc. So if building golf courses is of such national importance for tourism development, why do you from tourism to colleagues who master this state property, suggest, go to a joint project to first build 10 golf courses on state land to show how much they will contribute to the development of tourism, how high the ecological standards according to Croatian regulations are when building this and how much this is possible under this law. Let's make 10 golf courses on state land without taking citizens by force of law, extradition, at embarrassingly low prices their private property. At least 10 golf courses some country, if it wants and you give them private investors, give them one kuna, give them land in concession for 99 years. What's the problem, why don't you let the state land let investors build golf courses? Now you will tell me that this land and these forests are not on the Adriatic. I have two golf courses planned for me in Međimurje, 2. Half of Međimurje is turned into golf. By the way, we've never played golf in Međimurje, we have our own national game called skating, you know, so we're doing skating fields, not golf. We'd rather, if it were a national interest, that we could own land for skating, not golfing. A 40-inch stick of wood that you have to hit a second shorter than a ten-inch stick and hit a certain spot, and most often you hit the fingers instead of the baton. There you go. In December 2008, you claimed that this and then the law on it depended on the completion of the construction of golf courses that are under way. Now you're saying we need to change the law so it ends again. That's not true. There was a whisper from the Constitutional Court that seven provisions were risky to bring the Constitutional Court to justice, so you changed these technical details to cover up those substantive changes by fearing the Constitutional Court's decision. There are still 6 constitutionally disputed things left, and you will see this because the Constitutional Court will still have to decide after this amendment to the law. 85 ha is not a minimum but 9 holes, 25% construction. 9 holes is a golf course. With this reduction you legalise all the exercises most often illegally built, and these 25% building and building facilities is not a tourist offer. These are less domes, not tourist offers. Cooperates, if you know what that is. You don't know? Now I'm gonna stay nice, I'm not gonna say, I'm not gonna explain what it is. No, no, no. I wonder why golf courses can't be built on tourist land? Is that an addition to tourism? Why can't the golf course be built on tourist land? Because by this provision of 25% of construction, and by tourist land 10% of the construction, you say golf course cannot be worked on tourist land, because it cannot cross 10% of the construction. He can't, he can't, 10%, and they need 25% and more construction because they need facilities, not golf course. And the whole background of the law is the terrain, not the golf course. So you have a lot of illogicalness and then stimulate the construction of golf course on tourist land. On state land, agriculture or forests anywhere, and only when we build 300 golf courses will we take peasants land, olive groves and build golf courses. Do municipalities have to sell land without a golf course contest? Is the land re-use paid for the golf course? Is there a water contribution to the golf course? Do you know the answers to those questions? No, because these are benefits for a private investor. Yeah. How many benefits does it take to invest? So say we have to build a golf course on the burden of taxpayers, communal infrastructure must be given by the municipality, city or county and then we will give them a gift to collect creams from the golf course. You're being blackmailed for joining the cartel. Someone here today mentioned a golf alliance. Did you know that the Croatian Golf Federation is in bankruptcy? Did you know that Golf has been in bankruptcy for several years and has been run by a bankruptcy manager? And how did he get into bankruptcy of the Croatian Golf Federation and why? And I'll finish the next one. The municipalities and cities must pay for the infrastructure and are obliged to support the development of golf. Which item is revenue in favour of municipalities and cities and counties is increasing so that they can implement this obligation. Did Minister Shuker show you the item where municipalities, cities will receive more money to fulfil this obligation? There's no explanation for that. The weather is sunny, very warm in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52922	Thank you very much. We see we've covered everything from time to hole all over our beautiful. I think this 9 is Drago in favour of Međimurje because she 18 would be in Slovenia There'll be an opportunity. [[Invader Lesar: You can repeat!]] We have 11 reports of a replica, which corrects the quote. Let's take it in a row. First of all, colleague Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52923	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, we can joke on the size of a single county, the number of holes 9 or 18. Of course it doesn't matter. This law and there's a colleague named Lesar right. It is the only one that is brought into the world and is designed not to help golf courses and help investment in golf, but to further facilitate the urbanization of certain areas that should not be. Mr. Lesar noticed well that from now on the limit is 85 ha from 9 holes, it is possible to make such a golf course to 20 ha. So, it's made it even easier for me for construction entrepreneurs, for investors to take land, to extract people, for local units to urbanize and bring in all the connections they need so they can build apartments, houses, apartments and whatever they want to do. An open example is gentlemen in Zagreb Golf and country club in Zagreb had a big affair where he sold a number of dignitaries 12 houses that were intended for the players' reception and holiday and turned them into housing units. And even today they are standing there, and the Ministry of Construction has failed to remove them. Now that's the purpose of this law. I would say in meteorology we have an example of golf current as one idea, and in Croatia it has become a concept of pushing building interests and building lobbys. Golf electricity in Croatia means pushing urbanism at the expense of nature and environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52924	The great golf current protects and feeds Europe. Thus, it is not if we have been taught a bad influence at school in these areas. But for a reply to the replica, a colleague called Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52925	Comrade Maras is exactly this reduction in golf course standard 9 holes 20 ha. So these 20 ha for building about 15 accommodation facilities as officially said, shows actually the real interest of those who force this law. But how. Therefore, it is not even enough to go into the extradition procedure, but this law also provides for the possibility of entering a visit before the end of the extradition procedure. Entry into the possession of one private person into the land of another owner before the finalisation of the power-making procedure, at the price set by him. It's an investor. At the price he set himself. ... Yeah, well, read what the law says. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, you read the old law, probably. And let's just do one thing. Reduce the level of construction to 10%, as it is on tourist land. You'll see. Don't be naive to your colleagues, so we're not in the theater. There won't be a golf course you'll give them without being built in maximum form, so that's the goal, so they need buildings not golf courses. What's the problem? Why does he insist on it? If the golf course is complemented by the hotel's tourist supplement, make your golf course and what's the problem? So reduce it to 10% of the construction, see how the interest and pressure will go down. That's all. Don't throw your friend away. The public can't hear what they throw away, so you'll know that you'll be disdainful.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52926	Thank you. Next, the second one stood up for the replica of his colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52927	Thank you. Comrade Lesar, you have asked one question, in fact, why the playgrounds are not built on state land, probably because this golf current mentioned by Mr Maras in his inspired exhibition was not there to warm up the state, but to warm up private investors, therefore we probably don't have any on state land and such playgrounds. ... May I continue, Mrs. Solic? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. So Croatia today is the only country in the world that has a golf law, i.e. golf courses. In these changes, due to the constitutional court's nature, which due to poor practice, golf courses are predicted to have 9 holes instead of what can be seen on all the portals in the encyclopaedias, in the rules, instead of 18 holes. I'm only glad that Croatia doesn't have a football field law, because in this analogy it would be allowed to build one-naked playgrounds, as of course we have golf courses with half a hole, rather than what the law provides. But regardless of what is allowed to build a playground with half a hole, this other half, in any case, will compensate for the holes in the law, and the golf course is no longer a state interest, so then the expropriation does not go like this but under that other law, I would just like to say that the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links to one of the previous sessions last year has proposed that for heliodroms, for emergency medical assistance predicts expropriation, the government has not yet released it in the procedure, and as we are being removed from maternity, hospital, etc. In this way, I would like to draw attention to the fact that when it is already done for golf courses to do this for something that is much more useful for the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52928	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52929	State land that isn't put into operation or golf courses. Now I don't have the exact information on the territorial schedule of these millions and 100,000 acres per county, but let's say if we forget these 350 thousand unprocessed say there's still about 200 thousand acres below the land mines. I will support you if instead you propose all state-owned countries that are under mines, the only cost of an investor that must be demined. And give him a 99-year concession. And make golf courses there. What about the burned forest areas that after 5 years can be redeployed without payment of compensation, without payment of re-intention fees. Therefore, you have instruments of great strength to help your portfolio in a way that complements the tourist offer of state property, but as examples of problems, you always extract one or two cases of private investors who have chosen a location on private property, according to the floor plan. How is it that these spatial plans in these three cases have always been planned on private land by most golf course territories? On those three cases all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52930	Thank you. Next, an imported colleague, Cain, signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52931	Now, in Croatia, we have about 40,000 unsold apartments today. So no one needs golf because of the apartments until these apartments are sold. But I agree here with Lesar, that it would be far better to talk about shipyards today, hospitals, and I agree that the Golf Act is simply not needed, but I will make investments on the other hand. Now ours or my pragmatic Istrians, what are they doing? He sells his thousand square meters in Vodnjan for 25 or 30 euros to someone who has dedicated such an investment and then buys 4 or 5 hectares from the state for the same money. Or, for example, In one Savudrija they sold a square for 100, 150, 200 euros, and then sold a thousand squares, so they bought an apartment worth a thousand squares of 150 thousand euros. Or in Ložnjan, they are looking for 500 squares or 6 thousand squares for 500 euros, for 3 million euros, which can buy 30 apartments. So when we talk about Istria and golf, where it's mostly sold, and what's sold and what's meant for golf? It's mostly tourist land. On the other hand, I'd be happiest if these tycoons were using a hundred acres of so-called. tourism land for zero kuna per year or over 20 years could get them to start investing either in golf, whether in a camp, or in a tourist facility, but the tagra will do nothing, nothing simply builds, but simply exploits and everyone in the country appreciates that they have to use it for nothing in the future. Therefore, it might really be more necessary to pass the Law on Tourism Land, to force them to start investing in such content, on the basis of good or bad examples to assess whether we need a similar investment. But without events and such facilities, tourism will certainly not win in its new strength, and I assure you, as before 40 or 50 years ago everyone in Istria was against tennis courts, normally they couldn't stand up to them because someone said it must have been, so many today are against golf, but in 10 or 15 years their mood will be very different. The truth is I never had a golf club in my hand, I don't play that sport, I don't care, but I know that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52932	Thank you. I guess baseball is more dangerous than a bat, but Dragec came up with this stick to respond to the replica, so here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52933	No bats, I'm picking up. What my colleague Cain does when you compare apartments and what you build along golf courses and you combine it with a surplus on the market has no relationship between them because they won't build apartments, these raubane semi-cheaps that look like they're made out of cardboard. There's something else being built for other purposes. And now you've actually principled a fantastic topic. Hundreds of acres of tourist land owned and seen by the devil I found no urban plan for any municipality or city that should build golf courses right there. How is it that these very locations of tourist land owned by certain people by county classify where they have been speculating for years with prices and purpose... But why doesn't the municipality decide to plan the golf course exactly there? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How come none of that location by urban plan is said to look there will be a golf course so now you either sell it for golf or you won't be able to build a hotel or something else? That's what I'm talking about, it's a corruption connection between the implementation of this law and you're giving them terrible tools, my people, it's going to make more money through corruption than your tourism in five years. And they'll earn it in six months. You don't want to understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52934	Thank you. Now we're going to a little bit of rectification of the quote. First call from a colleague named Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52935	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I hear the television is transmitting, they're starting to transmit. Is it a last-minute transmission?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52936	He's done. There's a game going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52937	... But to correct you what you said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're back, and you've entered an area you have no idea about is urbanism. You don't know, by calling, you don't know, and it offends me. ... No, I didn't say I understood but I said you entered the field, and if I offended you, I apologize to you right away, but my opinion was to you, but I wanted to tell you that [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52938	You're telling your colleague Roshin in the microphone that everyone can hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52939	But I'm looking at a man in the face because I'm telling him, so it's kind of an awkward form to look at you and talk to him. I wanted to say that there is no possibility that we could go back long ago to an unwanted history when urbanism was working on the property interest of what counterpart Lesar advocates. Urbanism is done according to what is best in one space, and what can happen here is not taking account of whose land it is. Although it used to be so done that it was taken care of whose land and that was convenient, but that was before the '90s. That's probably how it went on after the '90s because people don't change so easily. But the basic rule is not to do urbanism towards ownership interests, according to parcels, but to what some colleagues would say is the best use of space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52940	Thank you. Correction of the quote, colleague Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I am to correct Mr. Lesar's incorrect allegations when he says the state favors investors for the construction of the golf course. I will continue on exactly what Mr. Jerko Roshin said, and my "right" under the quotes to exhaust actually that claim is that the golf course would happen that must be entered into the spatial plan of the arrangement of the county, city or municipality in whose area it is located as a possible playground. Then an urban planning plan should be adopted, a detailed plan of arrangements and definitely when, and in order to be included in spatial planning documentation at all, must be obtained and passed by a very important filter beside the 17 bodies of the states to which consent should be obtained, a very important filter, which is an interested public. These are our citizens, i.e. the owners, so to speak the plot in which such content should happen. The highest document in spatial planning documentation is the spatial plan of the arrangement of the county, the city or the municipality on which it is located. Therefore, there is no indication here that the state could benefit investors of such content but precisely what is the interest of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52942	Thank you. Correction of the quote, colleague Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52943	Here's Mr. Roshin's already corrected, and I was just about to call on him to say that property isn't a prerequisite for urbanism. Urbanism must be happening differently. It would be nice if it could be on state land, but a lot, as far as I know, the playground is on state land. In particular, our Dubrovnik property is located largely on state land, but the rest is owned by private property, etc. So urbanism can't be done in accordance with ownership but vice versa. The second correction is where several times today has been said that infrastructure must be built by local administrations and self-government for investors. As far as I've read it says we owe local administration and self-government in an appropriate way, and especially by planning infrastructure to support the development of the construction of the golf course. So, plan the infrastructure. It is not said that it is necessary to finance what is a huge difference, and today from these discussions the impression that units of local administrations and self-government are obliged to finance electricity, water and all that is needed for golf courses. Which is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52944	Thank you. Next, a colleague named Mance came forward to correct the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52945	Here's the esteemed Vice President, my correction is on the trail of colleagues Rosin and Mrs. Klaric speaking and Mrs. Shuica, because as former mayor, I was working on these jobs where we were trying to build a playground in the town of Vrbovski, so I would so correct this allegation where the state is said to be able to please. The way I read it, Mr. Lesar was in regional self-government, and I'd just repeat it because it's unprofessional here. It should be said that those who ran local self-government and who did these jobs without talking about architects and the profession of the highest profession, that no one or the state can impose on the local community because the county plan first goes. If there's no such thing in the county spatial plan that there's gonna be a golf course in my Vrbovska, then there can't be one. After that if it exists and if it has passed the county spatial plan and the institution where the pure profession sits and when it comes to the local level there is still a series of very significant perhaps not mentioned here it is a public debate, meaning people come. It was my case that 50 of them that private owners of a small state wanted it, but three of them didn't want it, and we couldn't go any further. So that's what people wanted. Therefore, I am pleased to begin this debate at this level. On that side, I'm interested in it, because I'm saying we didn't make it, and hopefully we'll make it. Therefore, the state will not be able to impose Mr. Lesar and force the local community to do something and to work in the interest of some tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52946	Thank you. Correction by fellow agent Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52947	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to correct Mr. Lesar's false allegations that in a negative context he mentioned... about golf and... with another finding that it was all done without a document. [[The speaker doesn't understand, because he's away from the microphone.]] So incorrect. When it comes to this case the most part was made without documents and... papers. We in Zapresic are on public land according to all the papers we were supposed to make then a golf course. And when we talk and because of the true width of the view and the possible expropriation, what was done first of all is because of what it is right to say here, because of the blackmail of a part of the owner, and already according to the existing plans, such an investment could hardly be made, so whenever we consider it as a local self-government, we find it justified. And this item of the agenda, especially when it comes to the subject of expropriation, is not fundamentally bound to be suitable, but is bound to find a solution in the context of the possibility that has already passed all the existing procedure. Unfortunately, for political purposes, it is also being manipulated in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52948	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52949	In 209 I simply cannot understand a respected colleague where you heard that I mentioned you or the word without paper was built. First I had no idea that you had anything to do with the playground, any golf, now you've told me yourself. You're imputing something I didn't even say, I couldn't think, I didn't even know. And you keep saying that I said that urban plans have to be done on property. I asked my colleague Shuica how that no golf course was planned urbanly on state and tourist land.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52950	Thank you. It says that counsel Lesar didn't call anyone. He now explained everything except that one term, which he promised to explain to everyone after which it was not clear, that special purpose of certain objects seemed to me. Now we're going to the line again, colleague Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, I answered the line when I saw that almost every third, fourth, present parliamentary representative here raises one of the bats to your exposure. I think it's incorrect and intolerant. I think he did a good job. A colleague Lesar is for golf and golf courses, a colleague of Lesar is for specialized forms of tourist offer, a colleague of Lesar is to increase economic growth in this way but a colleague of Lesar finds several objections to the proposed text of the law, where he finds that there are holes that can come clearly to some abuses and why we cannot listen to him in a tolerated spirit. I think colleagues and colleagues that water has come to our throats, that every law from today onward must be looked at through three measures that must be applied to every law. Try to reduce consumption, try to increase productivity and try to fight corruption. This third one here was controversial in some parts of the bill. And I ask you, let's give the parliamentary majority half way, accept that we eliminate these opportunities to abuse a sentence in the law. It was just what my colleague Lesar pointed out and I felt it was appropriate to try to ask you for a little more tolerance and objectivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52952	Thank you, Professor. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52953	Thank you, colleague Doric, for helping me try to explain the essence of the problem to them. Dispute parts of the law that are a corruption risk. That's what we were saying and I was saying when the law was the first time and I keep repeating it now. If corruption risk points get out of the law, I'll be in. And precisely the reasons why these parts are in the law itself and so much insists on them give me the right to doubt the interest and background of this law. You will vote the law, but remember, in two to three years any golf course that will start to be built or built after the adoption of this law will be subject to investigation, from spatial plans, urban plans to entry into the property. That's funny to you now. Some have laughed in these benches until a year ago, now they're not here in Mark's square but elsewhere. Understand that by law we create conditions this time, to spread corruption points of risk in both local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52954	Thank you. And now two more corrections to the quote. First of all, dear colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a confession from my colleague, Lesar, who knows what the ball, the stick, the hole, and especially what the apartments are for. We're not that experienced, but we rely on his experience. But what he doesn't understand is expropriation, especially public deception. It's not about shamelessly low prices at all, it's about shamelessly high blackmails. Let's remember here Leclerca's day of haletins staring there, we lost a lot of money and French investment because of a little plot that wouldn't allow access. You were in that position, colleague Lesar. We who have been mayors for years, the mayors know very well how to penetrate the roads through the work zone and this remains in what way, how much blackmail there is and what else. And what bothers me is a panic-stricken fear of whether someone's gonna make a profit. No matter who invests without profit, I don't know what you're talking about. The shamelessly low prices were in socialism, tens of thousands of hectares were taken away, most of them didn't even raise money there because they were ashamed to go for that little money. ... Yeah, come on, tell yourself a story. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52956	And the last application for correction. Dear colleague Gary Cappelli. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52957	Dear Vice President. I'd make it right again, I can see that my colleagues said that, and that's what was said that local self-government units would have to create conditions in terms of infrastructure. That's not true, he won't have to. Number two, you won't have any of that. It is not true, it will because it will have a communal contribution, and it will be regulated by the urban plan as my colleagues have already said. It is also incorrect that it will not be possible on tourist land. They will, but everyone was running away from that question because so far it hasn't been solved. Now that it's resolved by the Tourism Land Act, that question will be resolved as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52958	Thank you very much. And now for the debate, I give my word to my colleague, Tanja Wrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52959	Thank you very much, Vice President. I didn't think I'd be expecting this. Here's a respected colleague and colleague of the government. First of all, first of all, before this debate, what I intend to say and a little bit encouraged by these latest replicas of colleagues on the other side of the political spectrum, as regards the adoption of spatial plans of county and locals, it's all exactly what you're talking about, it's at the level of the local community and county. But let's not forget that approvals come from the ministry. Investors put pressure directly on the ministries, and if the spatial plan is not included in that and the project, then the spatial plan is in great danger of not getting approval from the ministry, and we know that local units are obliged to adopt these plans. But to go back to what I wanted to say first. We all remember when this House voted in that dramatic session this first law we're discussing today. It was 15.12.2008 and then we became the first country in the world to have a unique and special golf law. In other countries, as has already been said, this issue is determined by legislation in spatial planning and regulation at local level. Today we are discussing this law again, but not in order to eliminate it as professional and wider the public expects of us here, but in order to supposedly correct it so investors can build and avoid us being suspended by the Constitutional Court because apparently someone has received some kind of hint that the law is against the constitution. The request for an assessment of constitutionality has been filed among others by the SDP, but we still consider this law to be anti-constitutional in this new proposed form. The proposed amendments to the same law, colleagues and colleagues are no less unconstitutional. The principle of legal certainty and certainty is still violated, the principle of equality of all before the law is not respected, property indemnity is not guaranteed, social justice is violated and, of course, this law ignores the preservation of nature and human environment which are also constitutional categories and highest values. Although this law entered into force in 1.1.2009, the regulation that should regulate the implementation of this law was never adopted. So the law is passed in order to satisfy someone nominally, in this case investors in construction buildings, not in golf courses, but in construction buildings because golf courses can be built without a special law, I guess these people would know why they donated some parties to elections, and then this law gets sloppy and it becomes unhurtful and then these investors can't build what they wanted to build, they can't speculate with land and the land on which they can't build and still can't build. And then the government proposes to amend the law by emergency procedure. In this country, I ask myself, there is nothing more urgent than the particular interests of a few large investors in golf courses with large accommodation capacity, or we have a Constitutional Court ruling on our heads and is therefore in a hurry with these changes. In light of the urgency of the procedure, it is stated that the law depends on the completion of the construction of a golf course on state land, since the application of the applicable Golf Course Act has not yet resulted in the expectation of several initial investments, which is why tourism as a strategic activity of the Croatian economy cannot be less, cannot achieve expected growth and development. In other words, the amendments to the law are passed for a few known investors to claim that tourism cannot achieve the expected growth and development without the Law on Golf Courses is absurd and untrue and borderline with common sense, according to my court. Because golf courses must be of additional value to existing tourist accommodation facilities and thus possibly extend the tourist season in them, and not as provided by this law, to enable the construction of new villas and apartments to be sold on the real estate market. Golf can also be realized without the apartmentisation of forest and agricultural land, as is the case in a number of other countries, as well as in neighbouring Slovenia where it is prohibited. Construction on golf courses is forbidden. The example works, of the 23 planned golf courses in Istria, of which it wants to be included in spatial-planning documentation another 4, just one thing, which next to Visnjan does not foresee the construction of apartments, villas and hotels because they would use existing accommodation facilities from the surrounding area. And we need golf courses like that, not extra apartments. We in Istria believe we know best what apartmentization is. Local authorities, investors, but also the state are now encouraging their laws to build on unprotected coastal and coastal areas. Krajolik is uneasyly devastated, entire settlements of apartments, villas and hotels rise. All that, gentlemen, stares all year round. These are dead cities where no one lives. It's just piles and piles of concrete. These are buildings that, honor a few exceptions, wait for sale or are probably built only to invest money somewhere, to build something out of which pure money could later be drawn. But it's a matter of justice I believe and I hope someone will really deal with these alleged land speculations. Supposedly or realistic, we'll see about that. If not the Croatian judiciary, then perhaps some kind of European judiciary. In this new version of the bill, the local self-government unit is practically obliged to plan a complete infrastructure for a private commercial project for which there is no justification. According to experience in Istria, golf is planned on unurbanised land where there is no infrastructure and there are great costs to bring this infrastructure to these new facilities, which means huge costs. Furthermore, it allows local self-government units to sell land owned by golf investors without a public tender that opens up a huge space for corruption. It also continues to enable potential investors to purchase non-urbanised land from which part can be urbanised at no extra cost. The minimum size of the 85 ha playground has also been abolished, thus opening up additional space for manipulation of this area, since virtually every small larger plot can be declared golf course and urbanized, and the standard of playground from 18 to 9 is reduced, which is not really a golf course. And in this way it is possible to draw golf courses in spatial plans throughout a series of new locations. According to the April tourism ministry, it is already said that 89 golf courses are currently being announced in Croatia. This could have significant consequences, inconceivable consequences for the environment of the Republic of Croatia and contribute to urbanisation and devastation of agricultural and forest land. In Istria, the existing spatial plan is planned as I said 23, while four more playgrounds are being prepared for construction. I wonder why most golf courses are by the sea? Why aren't most people in Lika or Slavonia? These are areas that really need help in development, but by the sea and the coast. These are our greatest resources that we will irretrievably destroy. One of the biggest changes to this law is that it is predicted that golf course with 9 holes is that it represents a golf course. However, such small terrains do not need hospitality, let alone accommodation. I see that I am running out of time, so I want to look at just one more absurdity of this law that is very eclad, which is selling this land without a public tender, selling to the investor a part of the land on which the construction of the golf course is planned if that part does not exceed 20% of the total area for which the construction is planned for golf. It is absurd to hear today when the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, centralises public procurement and claims that no coupling in this country can be obtained in a non-transparent manner. So here we're going to give the hectares and hectares of valuable land to someone in an extremely non-transparent way that opens up a huge space for corruption that this government probably looks just like a declarative struggle. For all that, but also for many other reasons, it is clear that this law should not be changed. This law should simply be abolished and golf courses as playgrounds, not built as playgrounds, and not as a platform for building and laundering money, but should be regulated through building regulations and spatial planning as other civilised countries do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52960	Thank you. And now we have a few replicas again, a correction. First of all, the replica of the esteemed colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52961	Well, I won't be rude, so I won't ask if any of hers have the same interests when it comes to construction. But let me put it this way, in Istria on those 23 mentioned terrains somewhere safe golf should happen at least 10, 11, 12, on almost 100 percent state land. I agree with Mrs. Verbat. We don't need the law, but we need golf. We need hotels, we need infrastructure, we need investment, we need jobs and things like that. I just got a call from the head of Ližnjan Municipality Mr. Chevechlica and he says, "Look, we have 24 km of shore." We don't have any hotels on the 24 km coast, we don't have any serious accommodations. Ladic suggests using this Israeli investment house built by Avenue Mall or as it is already called down here in Zagreb, this shopping mall. So he suggests 800 beds. We, like the city, or the municipality, are absolutely in favour. So, in one city of Zagreb, a shopping mall can happen, 100 percent of imports may occur, but one tourist export product must not happen. And what's the point of being careful. A boat would build where? 95% state land. But we have those 6,000 squares where these individuals are asking for 500 euros like they're in Manhattan. I also suggest, gentlemen, that you leave out those six or three thousand as many as 6,000 squares, let that content happen, let no one blackmail you. But one investment of 150m euros in Istria on a move from Medulin to Rabac in a 70, 80km move where there is no more than one hotel we certainly need. Therefore, golf when it comes to Istria is mostly going on in state, on military properties for which we are all to put into office and not on private content. In fact, private people are interested in selling it, cashing it, and with that money, they can solve their own status for themselves and their families in the long run.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52962	Thank you. The answer to the line of my colleague, Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52963	Thank you. My friend Cain, I don't understand that you've been so disintegrated. We're saying the same thing. I say we need golf. I say we don't need any extra concrete blocks on the coast. If I go back to the environment from which I come, the middle of the 15,000 inhabitants who have 4 golf courses and at a time when she was champion, the Yugoslav tourism champion because he had several times Umag had 100,000 beds. Well, we've got plenty of room to set up all those golfers. If we don't have a high enough category, we'll raise the hotels to more stars. But it's something quite different from isolated areas where then these villas are built, apartments. These are my men who will come, and I will show him what it looks like.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52964	Thank you very much. It turns out, however, that these local opportunities and knowledge are dominant in the definition, because we agree quickly we would agree that it is only a playground in Umag, that in Umag and around it there is capacity. But then what fellow Caine was talking about is a municipality that has no capacity at all, and people want to make investments there, too, make capacity. And now we need to reconcile it with each other, and it is certain that effort should be made in that direction. And a colleague named Mance signed up for correction. Here you go, buddy Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52965	So here's the debate, I'd like to discuss the professional basis of a colleague I don't know if he's a member of the Istrian County Assembly, but some of them certainly are and I can't discuss it here then. Because you know, when you repeat it like that, it says who brings in the county spatial plan. So the local community can make a proposal, and you can say from the county level here we'd like to have golf courses built somewhere. Therefore, the local community will accept it or will not accept it. And that the state here will produce corruption, and then they won't give it to the county. Whoever gave you a spatial plan in Istria that has 23 playgrounds. Who didn't give it to you? You might have as much trouble as I can tell from these discussions that were on "Open" and elsewhere and what's mentioned in the attempt to build these 6 thousand squares, that there may be a dispute between the two, and then we're starting some kind of association that's then protesting and speaking here, and of course the profession can't win. Well, I'd just like to remind you of a time ago when Igor Mandic defended in a TV show against a doctor. And you know who won? So Igor Mandic. He proved that smoking was good, and the viewers voted that way. It's so hard to argue because you won't argue with arguments and you've incorrectly said this here. It's not right for experts and councilmen to discuss something like that and say we don't need it or we need it, so who's going to spend time with us if we have that kind of attitude, we need a golf course, we need a golf course, but we're still not going to do it because it's all corrupt. That's not true. You say the same thing completely wrong. It's not in practice like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52966	Thank you. Next to the replica, a colleague, Doric, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52967	My colleague very much, to hear a different attitude and opinion from the Primorje-Gorski County, not just this Mr. Mance. Namely, I agree with much of what you said. I might sign 95% right now, but not entirely. Look, I don't mind the law, although we're really the only country in the world that has it, we're very original, we're creative, so here's the law. It would be wiser, though, if we were creative in something else, first of all in economic... , economy in production, exports etc. [[You don't understand.]] But what's there is. It bothers me, the fact that we passed the law a year and a half ago by an emergency procedure, that's what you mentioned. It bothers me that a great deal of urgency, and then a year and a half after that, we don't bring in any sublegal act to implement it. That's terrible. And that in the opening statement, we didn't hear why, and we didn't even hear who did it because it wasn't done. We didn't hear any of that. So the silence about why for a year and a half nothing. It bothers me to wait so long for the Constitutional Court's ruling, about such an important substance that can result in damages, great damages. I think the Constitutional Court should come here a little faster to make its verdict clear. It bothers me colleagues and colleagues that even a day, here we are today doing it again how? It's an emergency procedure. After a year and a half, we didn't do anything. Now suddenly again the urgency, and the explanation is clear to the government to complete the projects, not to arrange the construction of the golf course. Very interesting. So that's not good either. So, I think, once again, I invite you colleagues and colleagues to meet halfway, to correct what is wrong with this law, to avoid any possibility of any corrupt and other actions, to build these playgrounds, to make a clear contribution to tourism in this way, but clearly no way that we have a constantly black white technique present in this clear assembly, even beyond it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52968	Thank you. Next, a colleague, Vlatko Podnar, signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52969	... and how to turn this state land into construction land, etc. [[Specially enabled.]] So here I'm just going to mention to you the Law on Forests, which stipulates that a rule on determining the amount of compensation for the seized and excluded forest land must be applied to the land, and I know in particular one case that in Istria there is a fee of about 20 million kunas for the seized and limited rights to forests and forest land, so that then the Government, or the Minister, is making rules on which that fee is reduced to only 2 million kunas. And I'm sorry there's no colleagues of Markovanovic, so let me ask him if it's a shameless price of state land of 0.00 kuna per metre square, or 1,000 kuna per hectre? Isn't that a shameless price? And isn't that a guess on behalf of the state, private investors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52970	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Verbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52971	Thank you very much. Comrade Podnar, there's a lot of... I mean, it's an example of guessing investors, so that's what it is with forest land that I didn't know about, but I know it's for example. in some cities, not to mention my locals again, so I won't name it, that, in order for the city to determine a few million kunas of municipal contributions for golf courses that the investor should pay, then the government recommends that it would be good to pay the flat-rate and the amount is much, much smaller, but that local unit, of course, has to listen to the government, doesn't have to, but there's still listening, and it still has to lead to this infrastructure very much to that location where golf is being built. [[You don't understand.]] So these examples have untold numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52972	Thank you. And the correction by counterpart Frano Matušić. Here you go, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect for colleagues to say absurdly that today the prime minister was also talking about how she would also get the connectors through a public tender and that on the other hand, to be eligible and to sell state land without competition. First of all, the government does not sell state land at all, but gives a long-term concession. That's number one. Other ones who determine where golf courses will be as said by fellow Mance, are primarily units of local self-government compared to their representative bodies, so municipal and city councils, first and foremost, and they are the only ones who determine where golf courses will be. And today to transfer responsibility here to the government, not that it's absurd, but it has nothing to do with facts and it has nothing to do with the truth. You transfer responsibility to the government because it adopts a law that will allow for development where representative bodies of units of local self-government, where city and municipal councilors say there will be a golf course, there will be built. So the government has nothing to do with determining that field, neither the location, nor the government selling the country. The government doesn't sell any state land. The government will grant long-term concessions if it is provided for on state land, and that has nothing to do with it and will not sell the state country. That's what this is about. Don't accuse the government of what it really isn't, and it doesn't matter. Charge your colleagues in municipal and city councils in Istria where they located in whose fields they located these golf courses, but don't impute it to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52974	Thank you. A colleague came forward for the debate. ... I didn't see you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Turk, go ahead, correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52975	I apologize to the chairman, but I have to react. I've been in the local self-government for 10 years as deputy mayor or mayor, and I've heard for the first time that from the state institution and the ministry, we're not all from the same party, especially the towns and municipalities by listing or non-involvement, and unfortunately in these 10 years, we're not all from the same party, and if it's been said that I'm the last 10 years deputy or mayor, so I have to say because of the public, it's absolutely not true, definitely one. And under 2 it is known exactly how and how public municipal infrastructure is done when it and in what ways it becomes a commitment. When we come up with spatial plans, when I'm building these plans, and before you get building permits, you create the basics for roads, water and everything that comes next. If there's no money, then these investors are lending money for those purposes within five years, and then we have to pay them back as local self-government. It is not exclusive to golf, but also to any other activity of the economy, from apartments, from building facilities that are in the economy and that is something that is part of and how building and ine politics in this country so there is no fact or information or information that you said that golf must make a new step in municipal infrastructure. It is a fact and it is an obligation for local self-government to plan all municipal infrastructure in the premises of its cities and in the municipalities where they reside and where they carry executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52976	Thank you, fellow Turk. It's time for my colleague, Nadica Jelash, to discuss. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52977	Thank you, Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So the fact that Croatia is the only country in the world that has the Golf Act does not talk about Croatia being more papal than the Pope but that Croatia actually wants to develop golf culture in one unique way that no one in the world has ever done so. I wonder how other countries in the world built golf courses without golf laws? The uniqueness of the Golf Act, i.e. its provisions, and especially the one on expropriation clearly confirms that the Croatian government actually wants to promote and protect the interests of large-scale capital, all under cover of compensation for the backlog in golf tourism compared to competing countries. Because how else do you interpret the provision in the law imposing on the authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the units of local and regional self-government that in the appropriate manner that the proposal provides, and in particular by planning the infrastructure, support the construction of a golf course. How else do you understand the legal provision that obliges the Republic of Croatia, the county, municipalities, cities and legal persons to sell land to the investor at a market price without carrying out a public tender? Therefore, a third of the land needed to form an undeveloped building particle for golf on which the construction of buildings is planned in accordance with the local permit or urban plan. Furthermore, how to explain differently the provision whereby land owners of agricultural and forest land can subtract up to 20% of the total land area needed for the golf course through the extradition procedure. Therefore, the law allows the seizure of land to private owners against their will and the acquisition of state land without a public tender. So much for the government's true determination to deal with corruption. Because does it actually have more ideal opportunities and ideal opportunities for corruption than a state property concession without a public competition? Unfortunately, there's no end to the sad talk of exorcism. In fact, this law will allow the investor to take possession of land even before the power of an expropriation solution if it proves that there are legitimate reasons for this, and in a corrupt country such as Croatia is really not difficult to find. So the law is all inconclusive and vague. First of all, it is not clear which land can and cannot be ruled out, thus creating an unlimited space for the expropriation of both processed agricultural land and forest. And these very agricultural areas and forests are not only protected by the Constitution but are the source of existence to many Croatian families. The golf course investors will be able to buy them out as cheap agricultural land, and then without compensation for refurbishing into the building land and earn more money on the sale of built apartments. This is a typical example of a violation of the constitutional principle of social justice because it enables riching of one to the harm of other citizens. Otherwise, expropriation measures apply only to the realization of extremely important projects of public interest, such as infrastructure projects, hospitals, defence facilities, education, etc. Therefore, golf courses do not meet the criteria of special interest projects because they are not in the function of meeting public needs, although they are used by a narrowly interested group of people, not to mention also that the social benefit of these facilities is not even roughly in the correlation with the resources involved. At the end of the confirmation that this is done to prominent investors is a legal provision that says procedures relating to the construction of a golf course will begin before the entry into force of this law, and which are not legally completed by the entry into force of this law, according to the provisions of the new law. Therefore, this provision also allows for the re-action of the law and the re-infringement of the right of ownership. And the urgent procedure imposed in the adoption of this law, as stated by counterpart Doric, confirms that it is a very specific capital, about well-known investors, who are making it impossible for the existing Golf Act to complete their golf courses. It's obviously stuck somewhere, so the government itself should say, in the light of this legislative proposal, to simplify and speed up the legal procedure. In this function of speeding up the procedure where a provision is also proposed under which minimum technical conditions for golf courses will be regulated by the Minister, not by the Government by a regulation as it should be under the current law. I stand out as it should have been because it was not, and this was also said by my colleague Doric, since the said regulation has not been passed so far, although the law has been in force for almost a year and a half. So, since 01 January 2009. So the government didn't bring the regulation for almost a year and a half, and now suddenly this law wants to be passed at speed five. All this confirms that the law we are talking about today is just another method of legalized robbery of Croatian natural resources, another manifestation of unscrupulous corruption and guessing. If we remember a recently proposed package for the recovery of the Croatian economy whose operation will fall on the back of the middle civil layer, and who knows which times to spare rich citizens, then it is clear that the Croatian government has submerged to the capital side and to the profit side. The golf law certainly is another confirmation of that. And I end up with the conclusion, as to the quality of the proposed changes and the addition of this law, I think they're actually one step back or one word, and I'm going to say that in golfing terminology, the promoter has reduced the number of holes in the land in golf courses, but has increased the number of holes in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52978	We have a report of an alteration of the alleged, distinguished colleague Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to look back at a finding that the esteemed representative said about selling the land that the city is working on. Otherwise, it is not a new instrument in politics when it comes to land within the framework of work in local self-government, when a building particle is formed somewhere in position and in the city and if a private investor or whatever it is called is missing up to 20% of the surface, then according to the special regulations of the Republic of Croatia, it is not going to go to a public tender but at a market price in accordance with the decision of the court witch, to round up the particle giving the opportunity to buy that land to... previously be made through urban plans and valorilised to end. The same situation and the purpose of the legislator was, in this case, that according to previously agreed plans from higher to lower order, with already purchased and solved by another amount of land in the final area of 30%, it could have been 25 that it would have been possible, exactly, in accordance with Article 11 of the particle on which the area is planned to be built by court assessment and market valorisation to sell land. Is there anything more normal than that finding?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52980	Thank you very much. A colleague of Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić is up to debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I object to the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Golf Courses for the same reasons as the existing basic law. The basic law of the proposed amendments and additions are not enforceable without breach of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing the right of ownership and determining exceptions. The basic law and the proposed amendments are not equally harmful without breach of Articles 1 and 2. The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article. There is also no provision of an execution law under which golf can be subject to special interest for the Republic of Croatia in particular within the meaning of Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It's a law of exorcism. Is it not absurd, in fact, that the law suggests that the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional self-government must, at the request of the investor, or the owner of the majority of the golf course land at the market price sell without public tendering up to 30% of the land area? A colleague has now explained this article 11 just before on the correction of an incorrect quote on a colleague, but which is why this law is then passed when it is so clear from before. The investor can also own up to 20% of the total golf course area, which says Article 9 which means that an investor who wants to build a golf course must only have half of it while the remaining 50% can get at a favourable price beyond the public tender and through the extradition procedure. If we have a serious investor then let him see what the market value is, that is, the market price should negotiate and negotiate and thus actually get to the necessary land. I think the only purpose of this law is actually to reroute the land into building villas and apartments. Of course, I am in favour of the fact that Croatia needs golf and, of course, it needs a tourist offer in terms of the extension of the season. However, I think it is enough that there is a law on spatial planning and construction, then the Law on Extortion, the Law on Extortion and that it is enough in fact to make golf courses that are really needed by Croatia that are needed by Croatian tourism. However, as such, I think that it does not help to develop golf, but we should really focus on encouraging development measures, and also that if we are talking about extending the offer in tourism, or extending the tourist season, then we should also think about those areas where there are already accommodation facilities to allow concessions in already existing facilities to be extended in such a way as to build golf courses and other purposes. I'd call this law on building apartment settlements. It was mentioned today on several occasions by the local community, which is how golf courts in the local community can normally be built. All of us who are in any of our duties know in what way this can be done, that there must be a strategy of spatial order, that it must be put into the plan of the county's spatial plan, then the GUP cities and the existing Law on Construction, the Law on Spatial Planning, or the Law on Execution. And that way we can if we will if we are willing to build golf courses in Croatia. However, we have a problem finding investors. Now there's a catch. And that's why we're passing this law, so I'm saying that this law on investors, that's about guessing investors, not the Golf Act. I'm aware that we should attract these investors, that it's not easy. But let's do a visuality study and see what's worth it to us and what's not. We are also aware that these are private commercial projects, that not urbanized land purchased that we are turning into urbanised at no extra cost. And also what was just questionable, and that's when we talked about the local community that needs to make preparations for the infrastructure, and I understand that. However, I remain unclear who is financing this infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52982	Thank you very much. We have two replicas reported. First, a colleague of Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52983	Well, here's what I wanted to do for my colleague, Shimac Bonacci. I'm a little surprised that this is how you discussed this law. I understand that you belong to the SDP club and that you object to law-making, but I don't understand since you're in office as deputy mayor, and you've accepted the continuation of the project as much as you can discuss to Dubrovnik this way. Because you know yourself that in that empty budget that you've been talking about for a long time, after me and HDZ, you don't want to bring about 210 million kunas of municipal contribution as calculated for this joint project of ours I hope golfes. Of course this law serves to encourage investors. He provides some security, not what you've been talking about corruption all day today, etc. It's a little hypocritical today from Caine to many of you who spoke here we're for golf, but we're against the Golf Act, because golf can be solved without law. So we brought him almost to an end without a law in Dubrovnik. And now a little something that I was just talking about, about that lady from the Hotel Visa, you can't move on. So it's a little bit more serious in nature. I will give you some examples of our cities of friends in Dubrovnik, from some cities in the Atacama desert where you have golf in the desert, where you play on the dunes and on the sand, where you have in our friendly town of Bad Homburg where they play on snow in Germany with red balls, this is not on the sea and on the hill with us. And you have in Monterey where I've visited five different golf courses models, so I'll tell you in a hurry. One is on Time Share, the other is owned by a hotel on tourist land which is proposed in us, the third is with villas and apartments of course, as it will probably be in us, and the fourth, the one on which there is no object other than one small club house, and that was just to explain to you what this is all about, which is why we need all of this together, on which was therefore golf course owned by Clint Eastwood in Carmel, California near Monterey, a friendly town of us. I believe you'll come to see it too. He doesn't have any facilities, he's got 27 holes of golf course, but what's it about? There are 150 members who pay an annual membership fee of $100,000. So something must be financed from that golf course. It was the essence of my replica to tell you that actually it was either one or another or a third model. We're afraid this Clint Eastwood guy won't play.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52984	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52985	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuica, I haven't visited all of our friendly cities and I haven't seen all these golf courses, but as a tourist I've seen a couple of golf courses. However, in my discussion, I think that I did not politicize but that I said very realistically what I could actually say, that without the Golf Law, the local community, if there is a will and if there is a way, it is safe to work on making golf courses. However, our main problem is investors, which I have repeated several times. I'm also aware that we can, we have to actually do some kind of privilege to these investors, but everything has its limits, and you said it yourself, you mentioned other ways, different ways and I did it so we can see in various ways that we have to actually get to these investors. Finally, I am for golf courses, but I'm not into the law like this on golf courses because this is the law on investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52986	Thank you. And the next call came from a colleague named Vlatko Podnar. Here you go, fellow Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52987	Thank you very much. My colleagues Bonačić, when you talk about the extradition fee, this applies to building land, but the forests and forest land do not fall into building land and then stays if 20% for the purposes of golf course, assuming that it is now 40 hectares if it is 9 holes, so 8 hectares can be excluded from the forest and forest land at a fee of 0.1 kuna or 10 limes for square meters of forest and forest land plus compensation for the established or unused wood rights and wood products and a little bit of the general useful function of the forest. Again at the expense of investors, not at the expense of the state or the owner. It's not just the state land problem.../The speaker turned off./... the forest and forest land, but it's also the problem of private forest land.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52988	Thank you. There's no need for an answer. Next is the debate, counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here are many opinions that contribute to the fact that this law does not contribute to the development of golf. Here's a few of them. He says that the law so far has not been brought to life and that changes are already being made, it says enough about the relationship to golf in Croatia. We think the new law is a step backwards, and it is known that there was no new investment under the old law. Nothing's going to change because all the holes in the old law are left, and some others are added that are even more questionable. The former law has brought more damage than it benefits everyone in golf, and it seems to me it will be with the changes as well. We have all received a letter from Green Action, GONG, Transparency and Green Istria where we are told and appealed to vote against bad amendments to bad and dangerous law and to initiate a procedure to abolish the Law on Golf Courses because it is a harmful and dangerous law, contrary to the public interest and enables another robbery of Croatia. Instead of learning from other people's mistakes, Croatia will learn from its own. The biggest concern, they say from these civil associations, is that they are not errors of ignorance because the situation is very clear. These are errors with intent, and this is the biggest problem of our law because it definitely shows that Croatia has not yet matured in the fight against corruption since this law represents by many examples of institutionalised corruption. What does that mean? This means that there is a law that suits individuals at the beginning, which is investors who have started certain investments that obviously need to read some debts. I ask our Prime Minister Kosor to take seriously all these remarks and parliamentary representatives and civil society because she will not be able to say that she is once again surprised when she warns both opposition and civil society and journalists about the corrupt nature of this law. What is particularly interesting is that this law has been denied by the government itself, so in December 2008, the Law on golf courses was passed by emergency procedure because the government interpreted it, quote: "The adoption of this law on it depends on the continuation of the construction of the golf course". I also quote: "The adoption of this law depends on the continuation of the completion of several start-up investments for which the consortium was founded, which have stopped and there is a danger of not being realised." It's been a year and a half since then and nothing's been done. Should someone be called to account for it? But suddenly even that changes, again probably at the moment of someone from the Constitutional Court where they are at the interpretation of this controversial law of ours. So once again, the truth is clouded. This law does not suit investment in golf. It favours individual investors who have already started some of their projects, which they cannot finish. And that's why it's a law that in the beginning institutionalizes corruption. So, let me cut it short. That's exactly why this law doesn't need to be changed. He just needs to be abolished. It is a legal act that not only does not benefit all citizens of this country as any law should be, but only benefits one small part of the investor in the golf course. This law definitely threatens and threatens the investor's unequal position in the principle of legal certainty. This law legalises political corruption, which is why we need to take special care, because we still haven't opened chapter 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52990	Thank you. We've got one report of a rectification. Comrade Mance, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52991	Well, I'd like to make it right, although perhaps Mr. Jovanovic will be angry because the last time he insulted me was to lie. But I'm still going to say that this is not a good way to talk golf in general, and I'd like to correct that assumption to whom it goes. Really, who's in favour of passing this law? On the one hand, you say there's no investment in golf, that this law doesn't contribute. And certainly they are gone because there was also a series of remarks and noises in the first law. So, who did it happen to? No one if no one's done it. It all started with two golf courses from Istria, and then everyone started that debate. But I have to say, there are three areas of construction of the golf course. Those who are in the coastal area where tourism is developed, and there are also us who are in that continental part and who would be very welcome to these investors. These investors we're talking about today I'd like to ask you to send them to our address. We have a spatial plan for the golf course. Here you are from the same county as me. The county gave the green light so that it could go and therefore let those investors come and build. And I have to tell you that the profession was from a level of Germany that sought only 5% of the construction area on a 90 ha golf course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52992	Thank you. My colleague Zeljko Turk is up to debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52993	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We heard a lot of exhaustive information today, or rather a very exhaustive debate about golf itself. It's interesting that with that big negative echo on this right side of the bench. All Croatian or most Croatian counties have put golf plans as a field of interest through their spatial plans. So it's definitely a fact that counties, cities, municipalities plan to develop golf in their premises further and that speaks enough for themselves. There has been no mention of another finding here so far, Mrs. Shuica was talking about the types of golf. She didn't mention another potentially possible one. So it's public golf. So, golf that has no private interest above it, which is built or works with public funds or donors who do not want any purpose for it. So there's public golf, there's also a facility in the country where he's invented. But it certainly is rare, especially in an economic situation where there is not enough funding for that kind of sport. On the one hand, golf is a sport, but golf is also tourism. And golf also works for companies and systems and individuals who do not have direct benefits, but benefit from it as a region, as a space where there are hotels, restaurants and other facilities that this type of sporting activity certainly contributes to the overall end, space or city being developed. Allow me a few more findings regarding another theme related to golf, which is a question and concerns about the environment. And we just said it in short lines in the debate that it was. It's interesting that out of 100 ha I mentioned it in my debate 50% of the surface is almost originally what it is, and when we talk about the whole surface, that part that's about 30 hectares, so for example, it's been cut, processed, and manure about two to four times a year, and it's just the greens and those that are for initial and final blows that are approximately treated three to five times. When we mention it in context and agricultural cultures as I have already said it then it is clear that in the context of the protection of the environment golf does not pose any potential danger if it is as normal as in any other activity done and guided in an appropriate manner. No one here has particularly apostrophe, and it is true that environmental studies are done by companies that get money for it. But it's also a fact that there are commissions at the level of the ministry that I dare say more than rigorously evaluate these same studies, and there are usually no steps that I would see through someone's fingers. Yes, I do, on the contrary. In the future space itself in Zapresic, which is located on the state agricultural land, I have come to know in a situation in which and how high-quality the habitats of birds and everything that makes up an integral part of the ecosystem, and when it comes to the space itself on golf courses. Also, when we talk about something called potential treatment from a disease one of my colleagues said in quality that actually right on the premises... which is intensively treated by the skin is in fact the best form of disease prevention and as such is an integral part of the treatment is precisely the quality of working on golf courses depends on how and how high quality the mechanism which is being done and processed is precisely this area related to playing golf. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There will certainly be another question which has been specifically politicized, which is the question of the number of holes and whether the golf course has 9 holes in the golf course. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. The golf course of 9 holes is a golf course, because once you get permission to play at the gym, and when you move towards playing golf, it is exactly the normal natural step away from playing golf and as such it is desirable and it was actually wrong for me that under the existing law until now he as such is not marked as a golf course space. There are a lot of situations and when we talk about planning the golf course itself, yes... The situation and purpose can be elite at 100, 150 hectares, it can also be public that can be pushed to 40, 50, 70 hectares, and absolutely its public function as such and it comes to... [[You don't understand.]] expression and as such is positively determined. [[You don't understand.]] And when we talk about this concept of public golf, someone correctly noticed that 30 years ago tennis was in sport, it's been 30 years, today the tennis sport of folk mass I dare say so, and also when we talk about golf and its elitism... And today when I'm talking about him as something that's just the thing and... [[You don't understand.]] The priority, the fact is that public golf has developed in Zapresic at our exercise site today is 150 golfers, 80 children train and do not pay any compensation because the city has just decided to develop and golf in the context of the promotion of sport development. [[You don't understand.]] And I could still talk here for a long time now, given that I have some experience related to this subject, but the indisputable fact is that we are in our current practice, and accordingly with... The law we had, in fact, made it impossible for the quality of golf development, and what I am personally saddened by is that it is the development of a potential investor, and this debate today actually makes it impossible for us to invest golf in Croatia, because it is the fact that when we talk about investment in golf that is private, it is as such looking for and what is every benefit in investment in private and that is profit, so through golf, there is also a certain profit, through the work of the golf course itself, that is definitely not so, and that is why it is necessary in some way to find a measure to safeguard both state INA and property, but also potential measures that will develop golf as a whole. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52994	Thank you very much. We have one reported replica, colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52995	My colleague, what is controversial about this is that units of local self-government provide a built municipal structure, so the investor does not need to pay a contribution to the municipal infrastructure. It's practically over. He doesn't pay for re-purpose from the agricultural forest to the golf course. So the equality of investors is marred, which is also very questionable, not very questionable, but absolutely from the position of the Constitution and constitutionality. Here's an example. Contrary to all this, whether young people want to build a home on their own agricultural land, that is, land that they don't have, but they inherited from their father, their mother, their grandfather, they will immediately have to pay 60 thousand kuna for a small house before they dig up, bury the first shovel. Or their alternative is to buy an apartment, a 40-metre-square-square apartment from some construction mobster for 80,000 euros. So this is the question, so how much you have no understanding for people, citizens to be their representatives, not investors' representatives, because a solid investor will find ways and means if he has, to buy out the land that few have, but there were those, why please them. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52996	Replication response, fellow Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52997	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ... But the distinguished Mrs. Marinovic speaks incorrectly. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] In my Zapresić the nemrši pass neither the church mouse nor the fly in flight without being accompanied by a municipal contribution to an object that will be made and golfed, and for the golf house, and for the hotel, and for the facility and no one can pass outside the law in the building, and when it comes to the solid objects that are built on the existing golf course. But it's true. When we talk about this total re-use of 100 or 50 hectares of agricultural land which does not serve commercial purposes and can only possibly sustain itself for the sake of the fact that in this way we potential investors of these fees can be potentiated and released in order to in fact in some way potential them to build golf courses in a narrow sense, but no building object that is built and built cannot be passed without calculating the municipal contribution and all those other water and construction charges. And when it comes to the protection of our citizens in the context of the colleague you said, you did not mention what with part of our citizens who precisely because of the situation that 90% of the land has been purchased and their agriculturally abandoned, unbuilt work and respect, that is to say, taking advantage of the fact that the owners are still a few percent of the land, and blackmailing potential investors with inappropriate prices of 100, 500 or 1,000 euros. So, absolutely any construction that is either related to hotel content, for apartments or for houses that are as buildings are subject to municipal contributions and other obligations arising from the Construction Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52998	Thank you. Mario Habek, the next participant in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u52999	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after a year and a half, the debate on the law that only Croatia has on the agenda is again on the agenda. At least we're the first thing in the world. We became the only country in the world that has a special law on golf courses. Although several requirements for the assessment of legality and constitutionality have been filed against this law, we move on. This law came into force on 1 January 2009, but a regulation that needed to regulate some mechanisms, its implementation was never adopted in spite of a 30-day legal provision, so that the Croatian Government itself violated the Law on Golf Courses because it did not serve a practical purpose. In a new version of the bill, units of local self-government are practically obliged to plan a complete infrastructure for a private commercial project, which will further poverty. It then allows local self-government units to sell land owned by golf investors without a public tender, which opens up a space for corruption. A minimum golf course size of 85 hectares has been abolished, thus creating an additional space for manipulation of this regulation because virtually every small larger land can be declared golf course and organised, while the standard golf course from 18 to 9 holes has been reduced, which is actually not a golf course. The area with 9 holes can not be represented as golf, can not represent a golf course, but a terrain, possibly a training ground, but perhaps it can but only in the Republic of Croatia. But most likely that so little so-called. A golf course with 9 holes will be a front for construction in areas where building infrastructure is otherwise not possible, e.g. on agricultural land, on forest land or protected coastal belt. In this way, it is possible to draw golf courses in spatial plans across a range of locations, i.e. new locations, and to allow for construction on agricultural and forest land. This could have significant consequences for the environment of the Republic of Croatia and contribute to the devastation of agricultural and forest land. Also from the bill's proposal, it is obvious that the investor will be allowed to buy land at the cost of agricultural land that automatically becomes a building land by planning to build a golf course, and the state-run unit of local self-government will finance all necessary infrastructures for this. As far as art is concerned. The total floor area intended for construction was 25% of the total area of the golf course. With these amendments, the legislator is used to express the density of construction which does not exist in the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Some undefined concepts are used, not those of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. In addition to unclear terms, there is no definition of how much the total floor area on which the building of catering tourist buildings intended for accommodation can be planned is already left to be defined in spatial planning documents. In the application of the law, this means that the area intended for construction can be up to 20% of the total area of land, i.e. golf courses. Then, erasing art. 9. It will allow the golf course to be able to own private land owners for the benefit of investors if the investors remain 20% or less than the total land area. In the future, it is possible to rule out the entire area needed for the golf course if some unit of local self-government foresees so in the spatial plan, even though it will be based on the Law on Privileges rather than the Law on Golf Courses. This law, unfortunately, will allow for even more construction of a variety of infrastructures on land where it is not usually possible, until the door to corruption is opened and that is bad. It just shows that this law has been a big mistake since the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53000	Thank you. And the following came forward for discussion by counterpart Angelko Mihalic. Here's my colleague Mihalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53001	Thank you very much. Well here there was a lot of things said today I'll try to be very brief. First of all, it was told whether we needed this law or not, so some of my colleagues have now declared that they would be for the construction of the golf course, but that they are not for the adoption of the law. You know, in Sweden, you don't need a law that defines every house has to have a building permit. It is simple, in Sweden it is known that it must have and when someone made out of these spaces in the Swedish House without a building permit then there was panic in Parliament. But here we have not, until 2 years ago, had no Law on the construction of golf courses and the result of this can be established today 3 and I don't think that these are entirely built playgrounds in Croatia. Today, it has been said that only one Austria has 150 golf courses and in the vicinity of Salzburg, so one city of some 200 thousand inhabitants has 18 golf courses. If Croatia wants to be a tourist destination, and we have set ourselves up and we have, then it is safe to work on investing in Croatia and building golf courses. What we're saying today turns out to be that tomorrow, we're already going to have investors piled up, and thank God we're not watching this debate, everyone in the Parliament, that tomorrow they're going to pile up investors that we're going to open maybe 15 or 20 golf courses tomorrow. Believe me, it's going to be very difficult, and all those who think that someone speculative capital can't wait to get into our house are seriously wrong. I'm also coming from a local self-government unit where big investments are currently taking place, and I know how long, how much effort it takes to get someone to invest something. Is it building a factory, is it building some kind of mall, let alone golf courses? At 80 hectares, 80 hectares as it is in nature for you, as it is not a Croatian destination for the construction of golf courses only in the coast. He spoke here today and Mr. Vice President and we in the continental part have put it into spatial plans, we want to have that offer along with this continental tourism. However, at 80 hectares in northwestern Croatia you have 400 or 500 owners. I think it's impossible to round up that land and then it comes if someone gets into that business and then we come up with the fact that at least 20 or 10 of them are never going to sell, which is going to stop there all together. And I know someone's gonna say it's private property, etc. However, this also happens when building infrastructure and everything else, but there is a law that will define such things. So this isn't about any abduction of the country. I think it's free to say abandoned, worthless land often even owners don't know where their land is, but when some of them show up to invest, some of the investors are immediately the eyes are big and then they usually fall into the water all together. So in nature it's quite something else than we've been able to hear here today. And the construction of infrastructure, where there is concern that it will have to be built by local self-government units, so look at one unit of local self-government, perhaps with 5, 6, 7 million kuna, it's impossible, but I know from my own experience when an investor comes, when a larger project is being done, and when an investor comes into a friendly area, it's very important for every investor, there are always solutions to how that necessary infrastructure is made. If you're not in Istria, if you don't send these investors to us, they'll get a very favourable land, they'll get not only land, but all the infrastructure they need to build something like that with us. And golf courses, to build accompanying facilities and everything. Because believe me, it brings jobs. Someone here today has been snivelingly saying that these are the jobs of the housekeeper, etc., etc. Northwest Croatia lives mainly from the textile industry. Do you know what the salaries are in the textile industry? Often, the net wage is not even 2,000 kuna, and yet people work, live, and any such thing investment would be very welcome to us. The law should be supported and I hope that the law will be passed on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53002	Thank you. We have one reply, colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53003	So you say a colleague very concerned that some owners don't even know where their land is. That's true, but what's that supposed to mean? That those who pixed other people's land know very well where other people's land is. It's a very interesting story, but it's consistent with our old story. While some were liberating the homeland, others were liberating someone’s private dwellings, one’s companies, and now they’re still trying to free their grandfathers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53004	Replication response. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53005	Well, I have to answer the line, so I didn't speak at all in that context. The fact is that many households don't process land, and however local self-government tries to force these people to put that land in order in any way, that's a big problem. However, when any buyer appears, believe me, often the value of that land is overpaid. And there's no talking about any kidnapping, at least I know that there's been a lot of real estate traffic going on in my community, it's never happened that someone went wrong. When some investment showed up, everyone made money, and so did those real estate owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53006	Thank you. We've exhausted all the applications for an individual hearing. Final secretary of state. Here's Zeljko Leonard, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53007	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I thank you I can tell you for a pleasant discussion. Part of the debate was criticism of the existing law not even amending but existing law. Some of the provisions that have not even been discussed and we felt that they are controversial are removed from the existing law and we hope that the amended law will change the climate and negative perception of the golf course and the public and encourage investors to invest in this kind of economy, because we believe that tourism is a very economy that is now well seen in this crisis. And in some ways export that we don't have to cross the border. We believe that these golf courses will really come to life, as the gentleman said, there will probably not be an invasion of investors because these are complex projects and there have been a lot of things on the side of the ecosystem and something that is going to be said to be organically polluted. I don't think so, because you've all seen that ordinary wartime production that far more pollutes that soil and a lot of land farmed in some squire abandoned if in this way one land would at least look nice and bring profit. So hopefully this law will change things about golf. We accept the amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction as a whole, and we accept the amendments to the Committee on Legislatives as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53008	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This will end the work of the Parliament today. We continue tomorrow at 9.30. 2nd item of the agenda Croatian Red Cross. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53009	We move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the vote on the debated and closed agenda points. Please engage to see if we have a voting quorum. Please, ladies and gentlemen, many have not turned on and I see them here, so if some don't have the keys and it's known that Friday is supposed to have them, then let's count ourselves if nothing else. It's number 84, so obviously we didn't all get involved. But if someone doesn't have the keys, then we will. Let's try to turn it on one more time. Look, it turned on 73, and 84 is numbered. Therefore, I apologize to everyone for the uplifting vote. We exist, and we didn't get involved. We're going to vote. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Golf Courses. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 535 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Committee on Tourism does not support the adoption of this law and proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that votes: "The Law on Golf Courses National No. 152/08 is being put out of force". Who, for this proposal, is the conclusion of the Tourism Committee, please raise your hand? Please count. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find 71 votes against, 21 for. Therefore, the proposal of the Tourism Committee was not accepted. We're continuing our decision on the amendments. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and by Agent Goran Beus Richembergh. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted amendments to the parliamentary committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments submitted by Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Mr. Zeljko Lenart, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53010	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53011	Amendment 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53012	Amendment 1 is not accepted. The reason is that we do not feel that there is a need in the law to prescribe a limit of at least 25 kilometers from existing facilities for the construction of a tourist building of unintentioned accommodations, because it is not regulated by law but by documents of spatial arrangement.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53013	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53014	This question is certainly not regulated by documents of spatial order, since the document of spatial arrangement does not determine the distance of each other anywhere and never. Therefore, I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53015	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 of the same agent to Article 3(2)?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53016	Amendment 2 is not accepted because the proposed provision is not contrary to the general rules governing spatial planning and construction, but rather sets the upper limit of restrictions on spatial planning documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53017	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53018	I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53019	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 to Article 7?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53020	The amendment is not accepted, given that neither the adoption nor the amendment to Article 2 of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53021	Please establish the voting quorum again. Please count. Please, can you turn yourself back on to see if we have a quorum? ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please, it's not forbidden to hide behind the pillars. (Laughter) It is not forbidden in this House. 59. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't decide because we don't have a quorum. 68 so numbered, we're short nine MPs, we'll wait a few minutes if we change our mind about the MPs who are out there for a few minutes. If not, unfortunately we'll have to interrupt the vote on this... Okay, here's the thing, it's proposed to break the amendment statement and this agenda point by going to the rest of the agenda points, so if the quorum is determined in the meantime, and we'll come back for that other point, if we don't vote on it. ... Thank you very much, Secretary of State. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] All right, go ahead. I beg... are you ringing? Ring the bell. I ask MPs and MPs to return to the assembly on speedy pace. Comrade Chehok, I think there's already a limit to the quorum The limit of the quorum is here. ... [[/Intruder: What?]] Please, we'll decide on the other points of the agenda. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Like I said, we're gonna take this point down for now. I call upon all MPs and MPs who are somewhere in the Parliament building to enter the assembly because we have postponed the decision on this first item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Golf Courses, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 535. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. We started the decision on this act at a session on 28 May 2010. On that occasion, we voted on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Tourism. The committee's proposal did not then receive the required number of votes. After that, because of the lack of quorum, the vote on this law was suspended. We continue to decide with the amendments. Please check the quorum. You're welcome to engage. You turned yourself on when the red dot should be red. Let's see. Please, did you all get involved? Furio? Did Furio get involved? Check the redness, please. We have exactly 77, so we have the quorum so it's numbered worse, and here by including. Please, we're moving on to the amendments... Please, please, we're moving on to a statement from now on, we've already started it at the last session, we're continuing to decide on the amendments. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Construction and Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted amendments to the parliamentary committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of the vote on amendments to the May 28th session, no amendments were adopted on 1st and 2nd amendments by representatives of Goran Richembergh. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the other amendments submitted by Agent Goran Beus Richembergh. This is Amendment 3 to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53023	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The amendment to Article 7 shall not be accepted. The amendment shall not be accepted in the light of the non-acceptance or amendment to the Article. 2nd draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53024	There is no Mr. Agent Goran Beus Richembergh, so we will vote on the amendment. Please, let's turn ourselves back on, please. Please listen to what I'm saying, and it'll be easier to finish the whole thing. Please engage again to check the quorum before deciding on the amendments. Please. So my people, when you turn red, then you turn on. Please. Please get involved, my people if we're not here then we're gone, but if there's any of us, get involved. Count it. 77, someone didn't get involved. Please, it's well numbered 77, please check if you're engaged. 77. We're going to vote on the amendments. 3rd Amendment of Goran Beus Richembergh. Quiet, please. I'm putting him to the vote, who is Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh for amendment 3. Who's in? He didn't make it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53025	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53026	It's unacceptable. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? He didn't make it. Amendment 5 to Article 11 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53027	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53028	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? The amendment was not accepted. and amendment to Article 13 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53029	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-19-0.u53030	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept, to Amendment 6 to Article 13? The amendment was not accepted. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Golf Courses, please include and vote. Score. I find that this law has been passed 76 votes in favour, one against and nothing abstentions. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue to work at the 18th session and move on to the agenda point 2. Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 534 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the sessions. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Mr Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
