ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51034	Good morning, everyone. We're starting today's session. Yesterday it was announced that we would unite points 5 and 6. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Then we'll work together. And that is - Final draft law amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 523 - Final draft law amending the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 524 Proposer of the Act of one and the other is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that these legal acts be discussed in an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, esteemed Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. We have two amendments to the law amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, as well as the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts. This law regulates special payments so that salaries, pensions and other receipts, on payments from crafts and free professions, on salaries from assets, on capital and on insurance. There is also a limited period of time for these two laws. The first Law on Special Tax on Receipts from the independent activities of the period of validity until the end of the 2nd month, while it is provided for the Law on Special Tax on Salary and Pensions to last until the end of 2010. This law took into account and protected the interests of the poorest and socially sensitive groups of companies that bear the most burden of the economy, so that by introducing this law, a large number of pay and pension taxpayers remained out of tax burden. So 550,000 employees as well as 800,000 and 70 pensioners were exempt from paying this tax. The question you need and what are these for? It is brought about to continue to protect the interest and care of the poorest socially sensitive groups of the company that weighs and bear the most, so the proposal to abolish the first rate of 2% is to tax more than 3 to 6 thousand kuna, and it is envisaged that the rate be abolished by a special law on salaries and other receipts would be abolished from 1. 7.a for the specific tax on independent activities and other receipts of 1. 9, because he was introduced two months later. These amendments to the law would also relieve a large number of those who are the hardest to bear this tax, so that 720 thousand employees and 190 thousand pensioners would not pay this special tax with these amendments. By reducing and abolishing this rate, around the end of the year, 480 million kuna would be charged less. What are we going to do about the emergency procedure? We're going because the bonds still have more time to prepare, so they can make it easier to account knowing that even when we passed that law because of the situation that was passed last minute, there were big problems with taxpayers. So, counting on an easier reckoning, it's supposed to be carried out by emergency procedure. There you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51036	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51037	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At first sight, the government brings the good news to the Croatian Parliament. It brings news that it will unload the poorest in our country's 480 million kunas this year. But it's just at first sight. If the government had come with information that the state's income is growing after consolidated grounds, that it came with information from good macroeconomic movements and the first positive effects of its measures and its economic policies, then this news would be good not only for those who have less income than six thousand kunas per month, but also for the whole country. But unfortunately, this is actually about buying public affection without real cover. In fact, this is about the government's recognition that last July before the Croatian Parliament came with proposals that only caused damage and that it is now in a position to give up such proposals and such policies. Because last July, when a hacker was introduced, when we introduced more excise duties on cell phones, when we took money for unemployment benefits, the government promised that it would regularly report to the Council on the effects of its anti-recession measures and that, in accordance with the positive effects, it would end one anti-recession measure at a time as she called it, and we were clearly and loudly speaking from the first day that it was not a set of anti-recession measures but, unfortunately, the opposite, that such measures would cause disturbances not only in fiscal stability but generally on the market, and especially in the consumption of citizens, and that is exactly what happened. All relevant entities, from macro-economicists to employers' representatives, union representatives and responsible politicians, warned that the introduction of additional duties, and the government does not like to call it a harachus, would not cause positive but negative effects. Because such measures are not synchronised with one general, well-structured, clearly targeted policy against recession. And today, the government is crying and crying, last night, Minister Calmeta, that whenever some measures are proposed that actually mean restrictions in public spending, then all those to whom hands and feet are concerned fight against such changes, that is, against such restrictions. Well, of course it will be, and what did the government expect? For years, a mired social pact that had no purpose for economic growth but for buying a vote could not have ended or ended, for few who would give up what was promised to him and what had been given to him for years. However, we would all give up something that whoever suggested disowning was first on its own and showed how effective it looks when the person who proposes has absolute insight into the situation and wants to set an example for all layers of society to fight the recession by reducing public spending. No single ministry in the past year and a half has set up a programme to really identify the surplus staff, take care of that technological surplus, improve the functionality and efficiency of its services and achieve certain savings. Prime Minister Kosor says that thanks to government policy only a billion-and-a-half kuna has been saved in the public sector. From what? Of course, the plans have been cut. Budgets were cut, but consumption was not cut compared to 2008. And secondly, which means a billion-and-a-half kuna in a situation where daily affairs show us these very few affairs, because what's so far in public is just a drop in the sea to damage themselves in individual affairs and up to 400 million kuna. Which means a billion-and-a-half savings where only one company in which the state has its own share of the damages is climbing to several hundred million for poor management. It doesn't mean anything. Meanwhile, the government has always promised to come out with a consistent package of anti-recession measures, which is, if you remember last month, also promised employers that as soon as the presidential elections in January, so as soon as conditions are created that unpopular measures will not affect the popularity of some politicians who competed in the presidential race, they are going to implement measures that will not be acceptable to all, but will long-term fiscal stability, cost cuts and economic swings. What's the date today? What month are we in? What have we seen in the last five months? One big nothing. We saw a demagogue attempt to get through the so-called. variants a, b and c of the Croatian economy are burdened with new loans and this has been declared top-notch by a great measure which will finally allow the money to enter the Croatian economy. What is the result of this policy? You shouldn't repeat what we heard the other day from Opatija. The downsizing of mandatory reserves will not continue, 10 billion kuna will not be realized this year, why? It is clear and loudly said, because so far-placed funds amounting to less than 3 billion kuna have not ended up where they were supposed to end up, and that means in that part of the real sector that is a producer, which is a processor, which generates a new value and saves jobs. But mostly they left, the funds mainly went to refinance debts and to the public sector. On such guarantees, the Central Bank will no longer serve that policy. And we need to be aware that the government has no power to tackle the most important issues and this year provide radical cuts. It is fully expected that a government based on party interests in the year before the elections will not go into any radical changes. But then it should be made clear and loud that this party is not at the heart of saving the Croatian economy but saving its political rating. If that's the state's treatment, the voters themselves will assess. But the fact that internal indifference in the meantime has increased to 28 billion kuna, of which the state generates a good part of that amount. The state is running like hell from the very mention of multilateral compensations because it owes a great deal, as they owe it, but it does not want to enter the process of beating those debts as it was made in 2001, or 2000 at 2001, when only that measure has been analized 1/3 of the total internal debt. The state is one of the biggest debtors. In these 28 billion kunas, it is actually the inability of the Croatian economy to deal with the fact that the state is not paying its commitments. 5 billion cash paid back by the state by index 1 to 3 that always works in internal liquidity when the state participates would generate 15 billion repayments of debts and the release of new capital for economic development. The state doesn't do that. She's offering companies extra credit. And not only that, then it's additionally in debt, and we've been told for months that every new 500 million-euro tranche actually means no new borrowing because it's about debt refinancing, but no one from the government is going to tell the truth that the interest difference is only, if you take that into account it's much more unfavourable, because the loans we took 3% today are refinanced with loans of 5 and a half, 6 or 7%. It's true, and someone has to pay for it. We have a situation that there is no good communication, even more so that in this crisis as it is, which requires absolutely open all communication channels between the central bank, the Ministry of Finance, but also economic advisers who serve the government, so in this situation we do not have open channels, but even more than one of the most important economic advisers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government does not have the strength or political will for any change. The governor of the central bank says the government is unable to implement the anti-recession programme and we will no longer participate in this by lowering the level of the general reserve. Isn't that enough to ask ourselves who runs the economy in the government and why the economy minister talks less and less at government meetings, where is he at all? If it wasn't for the media, they wouldn't even know he was in Bulgaria yesterday. When was the last time you saw the Minister of Economy? ... Whoever works has to inform this public what it does, how it works and how the cabinets work and how it communicates with the first man of the economy in the government. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In this situation, in April 2010, the Croatian public with such a government policy has no chance of improving the economic situation in 2010, and unfortunately because of the nature of the political processes it will not be possible to do so in 2011, because whoever comes into the position to lead Croatia next year in the next elections to come with the concrete most secure programme that will begin to realise at the same time, the first effects will be seen in 3 to 6 months. That's what the public needs to know. Look at how we treat those we claim to be the only ones who can get us out of the crisis. The small and medium economy this year will receive slightly more than 300 million kuna from the budget, out of which more than a hundred million kunas are going on a debt reprogramme, i.e. interest subsidisation. On the other hand, tourism. We're all talking about how the tourist season will save us, and then we come up with information that unfortunately this year we're going to the so-called. Last minute group, which means that we will achieve, one only in the 7th month, so there is no advance payment and another that we will have to sell our product at 15-20% cheaper prices than they are now advertised in all tourist catalogues. Whoever doesn't know what's last minute should go to the agency and see how they're sold, under what conditions last minute's programs. We rely on it. If the government isn't aware of what's going on and how it's happening, it's time to say we don't know it, we can't and we're leaving, and let the people decide who's going to lead this country. The Croatian People's Party does not support such a government policy, it believes that the government is unable to lead the Republic of Croatia and asks the government to bear its burden of responsibility publicly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51038	Thank you. And I would ask all the participants who will be discussing today first to stick to the subject. Please, without throwing it out of the bench, we're making arrangements at the beginning of what we're doing, to stick to the subject. Please, I'll take your word that you're talking about this subject at all if you don't stop acting that way. Don't do this to the distinguished MPs. You know you're sticking to the subject and being discussed in the context of that topic. So now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51039	Thank you very much. Well, counterpart Richembergh said a lot of inaccuracies, since he wasn't talking about the subject and the laws, he was talking about a party duty that he needed. But I have to say it's incorrect, he said first of all that this government wanted with this move, by abolishing this 2% tax to buy voter favor, which is completely incorrect. First of all, the government has shown that it is responsible and that it understands at which point these social categories of citizens are and how much it means to them, which is why you are against me, I don't know that this 2% tax is abolished and that makes it easier to survive, so I don't understand why you are against workers, against pensions of pensioners and independent activities that this 2% would mean a lot to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51040	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51041	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct Mr. Beus' incorrect claim that the introduction of a crisis tax was not an anti-recession measure. I would remind him of the time when this crisis tax was introduced, so that we were then exposed to the strongest intensity of the crisis and that we faced the danger of collapse of the country's financial system. Therefore, and the introduction of a crisis tax, and the reduction of state spending through the state budget and the measures taken by the Croatian National Bank to stabilise the banking system, so they were all anti-recession measures. They allowed us to preserve the country's macroeconomic stability, because otherwise I don't know what you're calling for, I guess Greece to do street work for you in opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51042	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Beus Richembergh, has said several incorrect allegations, and one of them is that no ministry has made savings. That's absolutely incorrect. And in the organisational part so... savings and I know a little better at the Ministry of Health, so I want to tell you that almost a billion kuna has been saved in the area alone, while ensuring high quality and availability of healthcare. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what would please you because with you it's all one big nothing. It would probably please you to say that your every move, as you said, is to be contacted by you so that you, your professional, economic qualifications, say that it's no good and that it's nothing big.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51044	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. First Mr. Beus Richembergh said that the government is crying and crying because as citizens they don't understand. It's a completely incorrect quote. The government neither complains nor cries. However, we have social rights and incentives that may be greater than in some EU countries, and no one wants to give it up so easily. Another incorrect allegation is that the government manages party interests in its policy and represents only party interests. On the contrary, the government manages the interests of the Croatian people and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in its economic policy and otherwise in its policy. And that's how you can see all the polls that talk about the government's popularity and the prime minister, which is on the rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51046	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll correct the inaccuracies that no savings have been made on the items of the ministry. He just said that exactly the public business sector has saved a billion and a half kuna. Savings are visible on the ministry items and not on the programme's burden, as you say, but on the actual cost savings on the ministry items. Well, in the end, savings are visible on the items of the Croatian Parliament. So it covers a large part of the public sector. Well, negotiations are currently under way with other users of the budget. You are talking about radical reforms, unfortunately some reforms will have to come and it will have to be felt by all public budget beneficiaries. Negotiations are ongoing and I believe they will be successful and completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51048	Thank you. We continue to discuss clubs, now it's the HDZ club, and it's going to be two distinguished MPs. First distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić, and then the distinguished representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51049	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Since the debate is united, I will refer to the draft Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts. The HDZ Representatives' Club discussed the draft Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts and supports and proposes its adoption by an urgent procedure. When considering this bill of amendment, we should briefly remind ourselves that in 7 months 2009, when we discussed this law here in the Assembly, the legislator explained that this law has a temporary character, that it has a limited duration and that it ceases to apply on 31 December 2010 and that this tax will no longer be paid afterwards. It is also said that this law is passed because of the prevailing impact of the global financial economic crisis whose negative impact has affected the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia and that, due to the reduced economic activity, the state budget will not normally be charged and public debt financing would be at stake, in particular, in the dynamics of payouts, pensions and social contributions. I think it is also necessary to say that, from the date of entry into force of this law, from 01 August 2009 to 17 March, from a special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts and a special income tax on benefits from independent activity and other receipts that a total of EUR 676 million is charged to EUR 208 million 29 kuna. It should also be pointed out that the law excluded more than a third of the persons employed and three-quarters of the pensioners, i.e. taxpayers with minimum income below 3 thousand kuna. We believe that in this way, interest and consideration were particularly protected and taken into account by the most sensitive group of societies. Thus, outside the obligation to pay a special tax under this law, 575 000 employees were left behind while the tax liability was determined for 1 million persons employed by 870,000 pensioners were not obliged to pay a special tax, covering 290,000 pensioners. But by then, when this law was passed, so in July of last year, the government said that the application of the law could be partially or completely abolished before that if conditions were to be met. Since it is now estimated that there are conditions for amending this law, it is proposed that the first rate of tax be abolished of 2% on salaries, pensions and other receipts that are greater than 3 000, and less than 6 thousand kuna, and this specifically means that all salaries, pensions and other receipts below 6 thousand kuna would be untaxable by this tax as of 01 July 2010. We at the HDZ Club fully support this draft amending the law because it will release the mandatory application of a special tax of an additional 720 thousand employees and 190 thousand pensioners, which will free around 450 million kuna by the end of the time this law is applied, by the end of this year. We believe that these funds will end up in additional consumption of citizens, thus encouraging the economy and protecting jobs. What is interesting, and this is what the representatives of the Croatian Banks Association also spoke about, it is interesting that in the midst of the crisis, there has been an increase in the savings of citizens, which is really good. However, it should be said that due to constant psychological pressures, including from this assembly, from the opposition, consumption has been reduced and we consider, in part, that we all have to raise consumer optimism together, we need to create a positive psychological atmosphere that will stimulate consumption, boost economic development, and that is the way out of the crisis. Our club also supports the proposal to pass this law by emergency procedure because we do not see any reason why its application would not begin on July 1st 2010. In addition, it is necessary 30 days after the adoption of a law on the harmonisation of the Special Tax Regulation and the technical adjustment of payers of salaries, pensions and other receipts and taxpayers. On the basis of the facts presented, the HDZ Representatives Club accepts the proposed amendment to the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts and its adoption by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51050	Thank you. It is now on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of Vesna Buterin. ... Take it easy, first when the whole club's finished, then you're on your way. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] It's all right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51051	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club is in favour of the Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts from Independent Activity and Other Receipts. As we know, the world has hit a financial crisis in late 2008, and in particular in early 2009, it began to spill over to the real sector. The global economic crisis has been manifested at negative growth rates across Europe and the world. Croatia, of course, also feels the consequences of the crisis, i.e. the decline in economic activity manifested by the decrease in economic growth, i.e. by the decline of the gross domestic product of 6.7% in the first quarter of 2009, 6.3% in the second quarter, 5.7% in the third quarter, and the preliminary assessment of gross domestic product developments for the fourth quarter of last year towards the State Statistics Office was minus 4.4%, resulting in a decline in overall economic activity in 2009 of minus 5.8% at the annual level. First of all, this decline in activity was manifested as a result of a decrease in consumption, but also as a decline in industrial production, construction, as well as trade in goods with abroad. This kind of movement mirror is in the collection of revenue from the state budget, which records the decline at the international level. For these reasons, both the expenditure and the revenue side of the budget were acted on in this time with the objectives of aligning public finances with real opportunities. To this end, as counterpart Majdenic stressed, she passed a law which applies by the end of 2010 a special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts, but including the suspension of pension harmonisation for 2010 in order to reduce the total expenditure of the auction budget. It is important to provide important information that out of the total of 2 million 670,000 salaries and pensions almost a million and a half thousand salaries and pensions are not being noted, 910,000 salaries and pensions are being taxed at 2%, and 345,000 are being taxed at 4%. Out of millions and 600 thousand salaries, 570,000 salaries are not taxed, 720,000 salaries are taxed at 2%, and 310,000 with a 4% rate. In pensions of millions and 70,000 pensions, 870,000 pensions are not taxed, 190,000 pensions are taxed at 2%, and 34,000 pensions are taxed at 4%. The Act on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts has been in force since 1 October 2009. This law covered all those other types of income which were not covered by the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts. Thus, this law covers benefits from rents, leases, independent activities, crafts, own shares, incomes from insurance and others. The rates of tax rates are identical to the tax rates prescribed by the Law on Special Taxation of Salaries, Pensions and Other Receipts, so that the tax rate of 2% is taxed on average from the monthly income exceeding 3 thousand kuna to the amount of 6 thousand kuna. At a tax rate of 4%, the total amount of the average monthly income is taxed above 6 thousand kuna. So the receipts below three thousand kuna are not taxed by these two laws. Although it has often been stressed, I think once again here it should be pointed out that about a million and a half thousand are protected or released from paying a special tax. Clearly, no new tax introduced is a popular measure, so it is also important to say that the reason for the adoption of these laws was to overcome difficulties under the influence of the global economic and financial crisis, whose negative effects were also reflected in the economic and economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. In such a situation, of course, the revenues of the state budget were significantly reduced and indeed something had to be done to improve such a situation. From the special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts, and from the special income tax on incomes from independent activity and other receipts from the date of their adoption and from 1 August 2009 to 17 March, a little more than a billion and 680 thousand kuna were collected. Of course, the estimated duration of these laws was 17 months until 31 December 2010 and 28 February 2011. However, even at the time these laws were passed, we hoped that before their expiry, conditions would be met for certain provisions to be abolished. For this very reason, today we are discussing amendments to these two laws, which are actually proposed to abolish the tax rate of 2% of the special income tax of more than 3 thousand kunas and less than or equal to 6 thousand kunas from 1 September 2010. Therefore, these proposed laws propose to abolish the lower rate of the special tax, and of course remain in force under the provisions under which the special tax is paid at 4% for the total income of more than 6 thousand kuna. Since 1 July of this year, therefore, 720 thousand employees and 190 thousand pensioners would be released from paying the special tax. The elimination of the 2% rate further protects the poorest and socially most sensitive group of societies that bear the burden of this economic crisis. After removing this lower tax rate, another 310 thousand employees and 34 thousand pensioners will pay a higher rate of 4% special tax. The introduction of a special tax was, of course, a difficult decision but helped stabilise public finances in the last year and allowed for the regular payment of pensions, salaries and other social charges. The aim of such a change of law is to further encourage consumption, which aims to boost economic development and protect jobs. And we're all hoping, of course, and we're looking forward to the fact that soon we're going to be able to talk about eliminating another, more special tax rates than 4%. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community gives full support to the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51052	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51053	Thank you. My colleague Majdenic incorrectly said that these taxes were protected by the most vulnerable, and I note that it was paid by those who had received up to 3,000 kuna. With three thousand kunas, you can't even settle 50% of the minimum cost of life, and that's indeed the cynicism of making these people rich. Secondly, counterpart Majdenic said consumption was reduced due to psychological pressure from this assembly. No, consumption was reduced because there were 20 thousand of our citizens lost their jobs, 65% of which came directly from the process of work, 83.7% is with work experience. And let me tell you, the harbinger in the Ottoman Empire gave the right to personal and property security. It led us to general uncertainty.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51054	Time. Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm surprised the gentleman doesn't know my last name, and I can do that, but Article 209 has been injured. In my debate, I kept saying that we think, that we believe, that we think. You cannot correct our claims and our opinions, what we consider. If we said that we believe this law was protected by the most sensitive groups of society, then that's what we think and you can't make it right for us. Therefore, take care of what is said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51056	Thank you. Look, in this assembly, a little order has to be made, in this assembly is the correction of the incorrect allegations and the violation of the Rules of Procedure very often abuses, so I have to say that you take care when you go with the breach of the Rules of Procedure to really be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, even though this correction I agree that it was necessary to do so. We have a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51057	Thank you very much. Well, I just want to correct Mrs Majdenic's incorrect claim, so thank you for saying in advance that I will make a good correction, I hope there will be no harm to the Rules of Procedure, which is that colleague Majdenic claimed that the citizens spent less on psychological pressure from this assembly. This is obviously one insinuation that will go on in the debates of HDZ colleagues today. I think it's a vile manipulation because we know very well that the consumption of citizens has been reduced because their net receipts have simply been reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51058	Your Honor, I must warn you. You can't tell a whole club of MPs he's up to it. Please. So take care of the way you express yourself. Let's move on with the corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51059	I am correcting the quote of my colleague Buterin, who said that the financial, economic crisis in early 2009 was also spilled into the primary sector in the Republic of Croatia. This is an incorrect allegation because the Government of the Republic of Croatia admitted the crisis in Croatia only in July 2009, and before that, the Government of the Republic of Croatia led by Prime Minister Sanader, who every time you clapped here, claimed that there was no crisis in Croatia, that there would be no crisis, that there would be only strikes and that the Government would have appropriate measures if it came to it. So, only in July 2009 did you admit that we were in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51060	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Buterin, who said in one of her last sentences that the introduction of a crisis tax in July 2009 was a difficult decision. So that quote is incorrect for two reasons. First, the decision was very easy for you because it was the easiest thing to come up with in the absence of other ideas about how to deal with the crisis, which is to grab into the citizens' pocket. So for the first reason it's an incorrect decision, an easy decision. And the second reason why the quote is incorrect is that it wasn't actually a difficult decision, but the wrong decision, and that's exactly what you're proving by today's bill. But I call on you to make this mistake of yours even more correct, so you end this second rate of 4% tax so you can make your efforts to make life easier for the citizens even more prominent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51062	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51063	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance. At the very beginning of this presentation, I would like to make it very clear that the SDP has something different from this proposed amendments to this law. So, of course, we stand up and support the elimination of this rate of 2% on wages, pensions, below or from 3 to 6 thousand kuna, but our position is clear. We've been pushing from the beginning and we've been against the introduction of this crisis tax, so at this point, of course, we're pushing for this decision to be extended by abolishing and other rates, so 4% on salaries and pensions of 6,000 kuna and beyond. And we need to make it clear that we know exactly what positions we're standing in. Why, ten months ago, we were against introducing this tax, just as we were against increasing VAT rates from 22% to 23%. One is the understanding of one difficult financial situation in which the state was at the moment, and the other is an assessment of the effects, macroeconomic effects that such a measure could cause. And by all accounts, we were right back then. all analyses, and the latest one was actually made public yesterday, show that the introduction of this tax has affected the further reduction of Croatia's GDP. I therefore recall the statement by HUB representatives, the Croatian Banking Association, which announced yesterday and estimated that around 0.8% of the additional GDP reduction was conditioned by the introduction of new taxes. As a macro-economicist, I can only confirm to you that any introduction of new taxes into the system additionally burdens the system and indeed the only effect on production and on GDP is the decline of GDP in this situation, and this has happened clearly in this case as well. Of course, I say with one understanding that in a short time, because it was obviously the only way to get some funding and to patch up certain gaps in the budget. However, what needs to be specifically warned and highlighted, and before July 2009, the crisis was already in progress, it has already caught fire and shown all its bad negative sides, and all the while we have advocated that the state is more determined to fight the recession, to fight the crisis, and thus first of all to sort out the situation in its own house. So that public spending is rationalised, that this public consumption is adapted to the general conditions in the country, and unfortunately that did not happen. You know very well in the last year of a total of 4 components of aggregate demand, consumption, two key down by more than 10%, that was just personal consumption and that was investment. These are the main drivers, of course, from GDP growth exports. However, the only category has been growing right now by public consumption by about 2%, and this gap clearly says that no appropriate measures have been taken in time to stabilise the macroeconomic system and allow for one relaxation, so one space in which a proactive economic policy could be managed. Unfortunately, I say under such conditions and the budget deficit we had was not proactive, was not a contribution to the fight against recession. You have a situation that just because of such trends in 2010 we came into a situation that almost 80% of the planned deficit goes exclusively to pay interest on public debt, it is a situation that is not good and we all have to agree there. Therefore, if there is a deficit then you know where the deficit is going. He must be developed, he must be proactive, he must be in this situation in anti-recession measures. Unfortunately, I'm saying it didn't happen. The first real measures took place this year, unfortunately we still don't see the results we expected and, if you remember, the SDP has very openly supported these measures. Of course always noticing that it had come too late, but for some of the better quality things I would say was never too late, but apparently that delay had conditioned somewhat worse results of these measures than we expected. Now you see in such a situation where there is no determination to take structural reforms more seriously, in particular public sector reform, we come into a certain situation of blockade, I will not say blockades but one skeptic and cautionary monetary authority that says we are not willing to continue to broadcast money, so we are not prepared to release liquidity into the system, if it goes into unproductive consumption. So again, alluding to the need for fiscal adjustment, to greater fiscal discipline, to greater fiscal responsibility in order to get the money released into the economy. And now let's not just be, if this debate wasn't just about the level of evaluation of the existing situation and everything we've had over the past year, I'd like to try to answer how to proceed. Special attention is given to the role of personal consumption, with which this tax is closely tied, and as one of the necessary generators of economic recovery and growth in this country. So we don't have any dilemmas here. Anti-recession policy must be focused on opening space for greater personal consumption and on greater investment. It's not easy to achieve, but crisis tax definitely doesn't contribute. It reduces public spending, it reduces the potential of personal consumption, it kind of dims, i.e. directly reduces the living standards of our people and in such a situation and which would be logical rather than our commitment to the immediate and complete abolition of the crisis tax. But we won't stop there. We suggest some more things, some measures that we think the government might take and improve the situation in that segment. They are, of course, again related to fiscal policy, respecting all restrictions on the foreign monetary policy. The first thing we stand for is moving the tax burden from work and income from working on some components that are not taxed at all in the system today and for which there is space, in particular we mean capital gains, dividends, extra property or luxury property and other items that have a zero tax rate today. No country in our neighborhood has such a radically divided tax system in which the wide layers of society are taxed and mostly those citizens who are weaker assets, while at the same time completely exempting the tax burdens of those who are beneficial. And it has to change in this country, and it's a space for fiscal policy to act. Here we say in the request very clearly and here and we propose to the Government to prepare certain measures in this direction and to offer the Croatian public, of course, to the Parliament. It's absurd at this point that the income tax wedge is on top of the salary for the highest salary of about 55 to 56 percent, and that for all of these other components you have a zero rate of taxation. Such a system in a nearer and further environment is not ours. There's no such difference and there's no difference. And the justice of this taxation system must be one additional contribution to the state of affairs in the fiscal system. In order for this tax discharge and the transfer of distribution, the redistribution of the tax burden is obvious that the state must also use some of its internal reserves. And these are the reforms we are pushing for, public sector reforms. I will not repeat, repeatedly mentioned public administration reform, reforming the system of local and regional self-government, improving and managing state property, restructuring and increasing the efficiency of public enterprises, reforming the system of State aid to inefficient state-owned enterprises, better targetling, thus better targeting support, social support that should primarily go to people who deserve it because they are in the worst position, etc. Therefore, there is serious business in front of the state. Unfortunately, we still don't have the outlines, we don't see the outlines of one whole public sector reform policy that would then create in the budget the tax discharge space we're talking about. And tax discharge, I have today made an emphasis exclusively on personal consumption because we are talking about a crisis tax that is linked to wages and personal spending, and of course we have a whole series of measures that we propose to discharging businesses. From reducing the contribution to the labour price by reducing parafiscal burdens, etc. We are prone to another proposal, I think the time has come to consider further increasing the space for personal consumption in another way. The distribution of salaries in Croatia today, according to the State Statistics Institute, has significantly moved to the right over the last 2 years. This clearly says that the time has come to think and possibly about increasing the personal deduction that additionally creates space for higher net wages and greater potential for personal consumption in this country. I think we should respect that and think about it actively. And now there's something else at the end that's very indicative. You see, in both last year and this year, in the first few months, we had an additional shock, which is very little in public, which puts us in an unfavourable position both of the companies and the population, it's an energy shock. Price rise of all energy. Both oil derivatives and gas and the expected now special rise in electricity prices. A very simple calculation shows that only this component and the price rise of this component have already eaten what we will now return to people by abolishing this tax rate. Here, take that one family has a car and that 500, 600 kn spends on fuel. Only in the last three months. The fuel price has increased 10%. That means their cost has increased by 60 kuna. 60 kuna is 2% on 3,000 kuna. So we're completely, just an increase in the price of oil derivatives ate an entire crisis tax of 2%. And we have to take care of it. Are we going to wait for the other components, raw materials, energy and others to eat these 4%? Or are we going to put those 4% right into the system and allow people to spend and thus encourage the production and growth of GDP? I think it's very indicative, it's very measurable, the data is clearly speaking and we have to respect it. And finally, we really think very honestly that Croatia, and everyone says that and everyone notices that, Croatia needs one unique, comprehensive, consistent reform programme and economic recovery. I'm sure the SDP club will also support it, and so far it has supported all those measures that have smelled of a quality shift in support of the economy in the fight against recession. If we also notice why unions are skeptical? Well, exactly because they still don't see the light in the tunnel. Last night I had a chance to listen to a union representative who literally said that. Let's see where this money we give up ends. If he's going to go into proactive measures we're here, we're part of a consensus. But if we don't see where the money's going, then we can't give up that money and that kind of money. Here, that's what I'm done with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51064	Thank you. We have one notice, which is that on April 15th, so today, at 14 o'clock in the hall "Stepan Radić" it is room 133, a session of the Environment Protection Committee will be held, so please note. We continue the debate by clubs, on behalf of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51065	Dear Vice President, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on Special Tax on Payments, Pensions and Other Receipts, which has been in force since 01 August 2009, provides for the payment of a special tax on salaries, pensions and other benefits, as well as the suspension and harmonisation of pensions under the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act to increase income and reduce total expenditure in the state budget at the time of the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia. The law has been passed because of the prevailing impact of the global financial and economic crisis whose negative impact has affected the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia in such a way that the revenues of the state budget are significantly reduced by the need for the normal financing of all public obligations including pension insurance, in particular in order not to distort and reduce the dynamics of payouts, pensions and other social contributions. The limited time-limit of the law is set for 17 months, from 01 August 2009 to 31 December 2010. Which means that it is ensured that a special tax as an extraordinary tax, which is the subject of that law, will not be paid after the law has expired. The law does not cover more than a third of the persons employed and three-quarters of pensioners, i.e. taxpayers with the lowest economic power, i.e. the lowest income, and is with income below 3 thousand kuna, so as not to feel an additional burden on the tax burden. In fact, there is an obligation to pay a special tax on salaries, pensions and other benefits of around 575 thousand persons employed while the tax liability is determined for 1 million employees. Also, about 870,000 pensioners are not required to pay special taxes on salaries and pensions and other benefits while covering about 290,000 pensioners. From the date of entry into force of this law, i.e. from 1 August 2009 to 17 March 2010, from a special tax on salaries and pensions and other receipts, and a special tax on independent activity and other receipts, more than a billion and 676 million kuna were charged. By this law, by 1 July 2010, the provisions on the application of the tax rate of 2% of the tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts of more than three thousand kuna and less than or equal to 6 thousand kuna in total during one month shall apply. The adoption and application of the proposed law estimates that the elimination of the tax rate of 2% of the tax on salaries, pensions and other tax benefits will exclude an additional 720 000 persons employed and 190 000 pensioners. We believe that these changes will contribute to making it easier for these categories of low-income employees and pensioners to bear the burden of the economic crisis. And if the budget of the Republic of Croatia finds 450 million kuna less, the HSS Club finds it more important to protect the standard of employees and pensioners and therefore support these bill proposals. The Act on Special Tax on Receipts from Independent Activity and Other Receipts was adopted because it was pointed to injustice, i.e. inequality before the laws of employees and employers. The funds collected by the application of this law were used for the same purpose as the funds collected by the application of the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts. But it is certain that many employers were forced to fire workers because of this obligation. By the profession, and from some professional magazines there were warnings that there are 100,000 people in Croatia who carry out some of the independent activities and are taxpayers of income tax. It's got information that these people are mostly making a lot of money. Finally, we are faced with a huge number of unemployed because these people who are estimated to be mostly making a very good living or who have had to fire at least one employee or who have stopped doing their own job and who have become unemployed themselves. It would be good if this law also began to apply as of July 1st, because in these two months, it might create conditions for hiring new workers or returning to work for those who lost their jobs. The decision to abolish 2% of the crisis tax was welcomed by trade union leaders and employers. Unions, as they welcome this decision, still express certain types of dissatisfaction, as there remains a 4% crisis tax rate, and show concern that some other rights acquired could be approached. The Croatian Employers' Association points out that the removal of the 2% crisis rate will have multiple positive effects, and that it is necessary to access 4% reduction and crisis tax rates as soon as possible. Economic experts suggest that the abolition of the crisis tax could also have a positive impact on the population's tendency to increase consumption. We support the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposals aimed at fostering economic development and protecting jobs. It is also logical that amendments to these laws have been made. The HSS representative club certainly supports the adoption of these laws by doing so more than the fact that the crisis tax is indeed an unpopular measure which has at some point achieved certain benefits in the state budget. We can therefore express hope and expect that the elimination of this tax rate will boost consumption and contribute to the optimism of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51066	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired until 10 minutes in 10.36, with a total of 30 individual reports reported and two other clubs. And now it's the honorary representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51067	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So as we've heard the law enters into force one. Seven this year, it means two and a half months. The law abolishes this harrassor, i.e. 2% on pensions, or salaries of 3 to 6 thousand kuna. Harac we see won't pay more 720 thousand employees and somewhere around 190 thousand pensioners. Of course, that's good, but this was certainly one of the most harmful laws I dare say this decade. On page 2. The Law on Special Tax on Receipts from Independent Activity, i.e. the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, is said to be "From the date of entry into force of the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, or from 1 August 2009 to 17 March 2010 from the special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts, and the special tax on self-employed activities a total of EUR 767 million has been charged." It is said, "It is not necessary for the implementation of this law to provide specific resources in the state budget, but its application will result in a reduction in revenue from the specific tax on salaries, pensions and other incomes of 450 million kuna." Why is it that gentlemen may have been one of the most harmful laws I dare say this decade? Because, or that law, among other things, has scared the citizens, because it has, in the right sense, stopped that consumption of private citizens, because those who have lost 2% in the private sector will not recover even after the law begins to apply. Who's gonna get that 2% back? Will he refuse them at all? Well, those who work in the public sector will receive, i.e. those who work in the state sector, who work in municipal enterprises, who work in urban companies or in the city administration. But everyone else I'm afraid everyone else will be happy to stay at work, so if you need not only this 2%, but another 2.3 or 5%. I fear that many today in this House do not understand it in the state, but it will simply be so. So, this law will pay back 2% of the people who receive salaries from 3 to 6 thousand kuna, and work in health care, the state administration in municipal enterprises, people who work on HRT, the Vesnik, the National Journal, but I'm afraid almost no worker working with a private employer will feel the effect of that law. Let's let the big companies go, but when it comes to this little one, I'm certainly not far from the truth. Long ago I was saying that somewhere around Easter, and I wish I wasn't right, we'd be at the bottom, I'm afraid it'll be somewhere next year at this time. In 2009, we lost 75 thousand jobs or to be even more precise, 75 thousand 511 or the number of employees with a million 525 thousand was reduced to a million 450 thousand. In any case, the catastrophic proportion of workers:pensioner 1:1,38 from the beginning of last year was reduced to 1:1,26/1,27 and hence should go. Of course the biggest capital is the workplace. This should be understood by all or should be understood by both us and those who run politics and those who are in opposition and the media and workers and unions and associations and that I do not list everything else. One word, there's a battle coming for naked survival. Here are two or three days ago, 12.4. of this year Mr. Rohatinski, governor of the Croatian National Bank, says that Croatia today is in the survival phase, that the country is living quote: "on appliances", that we have no reason for optimism, that the government has no power or motive to start changing and that we are in stagnation and the only consolation is that we are not yet Greece. Or what it's like when it comes to raising the unemployed, what he did amongst other things, this law, what it looked like in Croatia last year. Unemployment increased, Croatia's average 19.2%. In Istria, unemployment last year grew by 25.3%, in our neighbouring Primorje-Gorski County 26.2%, in the City of Zagreb 30.9% and that's all beyond the national average. In Krapina-Zagorje County 39.2%, 25.5% in Koprivnica-križevacka, 26.7% in Međimurje, Zagreb County last year grew 38.3%. You know where unemployment didn't grow, in underdeveloped counties. It was under 10% there. For example, one of Vukovar, Virovitski, Sibenik because there people work exclusively and only in the public sector. Individence has increased us gentlemen by 45% last year, so in one year it reached or reached 27.6%, etc., etc. And what do we have, what do we do? The government's actually waiting for the election. Which will be 2011, probably worse than 2010. What kind of season will be in 2010, probably good, but in a financial sense worse than in 2010. What do we do, nice buttocks, that a man says, and he stagnates everything and shoves his head into the sand. This law was a total failure. We literally killed the calf for steak, not to tell the ox, scared the people, stopped the consumption. The truth is, HDZ deputies said there was an increase in savings, okay, that's actually true and we can't deny it. However, it should be borne in mind 10% of Croatian citizens who save 90 percent of those savings, and 90% of others move around here with crumbs in the 10% amount of that saved, let's call it that, money. When we talk about how the state was financed, in 2006 from loans, securities, etc. The state has withdrawn 9.27 billion kuna. Last year 20.05 billion kuna, the 2010 plan is 28.53 billion kuna. To pay off the loans in 2006, we had to pay 11.34 billion kuna, last year 11.140 million kuna, this year the state will have to pay off 20 billion and 170 million kuna. God forbid Rohatinski doesn't defrost 5, 6, 10 billion kunas, for development we really won't have in this year that's ahead of us I'm afraid of anything. So what happens to us, in order to be able to service these loans, those 20.1 billion kunas, we're going to have to, and that's going to happen very quickly, introduce new taxes, and it's likely to be the elimination of a zero VAT rate on bread, milk, etc. If the governor doesn't fire that 6 or 10 billion promised money, I'm afraid we can pass like the Titanic who just today in 1912 out there in the Atlantic, so 98 years ago went down. What about the shipbuilding? If we don't increase consumption, if we don't withdraw our investments, everything goes to hell. The investment of foreigners in the country last year was 55% less than a year ago, etc., etc. That's why we either put our heads together in government and opposition and unions and NGOs and in the media, or we're underwritten. I'm afraid we can pass as Titanic. It's clear that it can't be against any investment in this country that's at work today and against hotels and power plants and roads and golfes, and I don't know what because either the capital here or we're going after that capital. Only we will no longer have jobs in Italy or in any Slovenia or in Germany or in America. Thus, in front of 1.7, some politicians have left power, with responsibility today, almost a year later, on some others. And one more thing, you have to understand that some things, trying to run the state police like they do in the Rakar case, aren't very promising. But all in all this law, better said these two laws that are before us at this moment what to say second, they are logical, they are late, they should never have appeared. But I'm afraid if we want to finance the state so soon we don't get killed by some new taxes, I'm afraid it's going to be the elimination of that zero VAT rate, and that's going to be affected by those who are the most vulnerable because the zero rate is on bread, on drugs, on baby milk supplies, etc. Unfortunately, the damage caused by this law, I'm afraid, will have to be corrected for years. Why? Because people are scared, people don't buy today, they don't spend, they don't build, they don't know how to trade, they don't sell, they don't think about hiring, they fire what I don't know that we lost 75 jobs last year. Okay, I agree, those who have savings, but I repeat 90% of Croatian citizens save up to 10%, and 10% of Croatian citizens, those who should invest have 90 and more percent saved mass, and if people could, if they weren't mortgaged, I'm afraid they would fire another few tens of thousands of citizens. To end, to say, once again put our heads together, let's do something if it's possible to do it again in time. Now we're listening to the thesis that was heard on my right that those who were eight months ago against these laws that introduced 2 and 4 percent, respectively. were against the state, and now those who criticise the introduction of the harrass, now should be against 700 and so many thousands of workers and nearly 200 thousand pensioners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're twisting the thesis, it's just not fair, and what SDP's representative said is literally true, all that firing effect of that 2% is long ago through the gas collection, tomorrow it's going to be with electricity, the day before yesterday it was with a TV subscription, etc. be simply eaten. The effect is actually gone, it's long since it's been eaten and I'm afraid or I guess many citizens in this country would rather have this 2 percentage hack, pay the state that 2% just so that it doesn't follow one chain of purchase whether it's gasoline, whether it's electricity, television subscription, transportation and whatever it is it's going to bring. So for the end, yes, and the IDS club will vote for normal this law, but I think it needs to be correct and say that this law has passed perhaps the most harmful, that it was one of the most harmful laws in this past decade.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51068	Thank you. First, another notice. I'm gonna have to start charging it. The 30th session of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be held today on 15 April at 14:00 in the Chamber of Representatives, the chairman of Dragica Zgrebec. And now we have one series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First honorary representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51069	Thank you very much. Well, after every debate of my colleague Caine, I think we should introduce a new agenda point here, and that is to correct the incorrect allegations of fellow Caine, because he says so much inaccuracy that it is difficult to correct during this entire session. First of all, the greatest inaccuracy is that this is one of the most harmful laws in history. Well, you know very well, colleague Cain, that thanks to the vast majority of these funds collected through this tax and by the introduction of additional savings, the government has at no time violated the dynamics of the reduction or payment of salaries, pensions and other social benefits. Normally, you'd be glad it happened, if it wasn't for the pension money, the pay, because then what you want would have come, and you're getting more nervous. And that's what we'd like by force to come to power, the sooner and the sooner the power and the more time goes by, you can't come, and that's the only problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51070	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Please do not respond to the correction of the incorrect allegations, but to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51071	So this article 209, that it seems Mr. Kunst that there is the greatest success of the government in 2009 to pay their salaries neatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51072	Excuse me, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Your Honor, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51073	Because it corrects me higher and more than anything I've ever talked about. I was talking about the harm of a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51074	You spoke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51075	Which one is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51076	Thank you. You had no right to do that because you were talking about it. Please. Don't people do that, it's not good. Let's move on. Dear representative Neda Klaric, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mr. Cain several times pointed out this very inaccuracies that Mr. Kunst corrected when he said this was one of the most harmful laws we've ever passed. The fact is that we have been in line with this law since 1 August 2009, further supplementing the alleged correction of Mr Kunst's allegations in fact to the fact that the 2010 budget has further protected the most sensitive, most vulnerable groups of our citizens in such a way that it additionally sets out for pensions of 5 hundred 82 million kuna, for the birth kuna of 110 million kuna, for children's extras 15 million kuna, care for defenders of 21 million kuna and compensation for the unemployed from slightly less than 35 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51078	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51079	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A correction to the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, who claimed that this was the most harmful law of the decade. We have to repeat, and you keep saying that this law was necessary, that it was important for the stabilisation of state finances at that time, that it provided along with other measures of macroeconomic stability, that it allowed even the most severe crises to pay salaries, that they could pay pensions, that we could share salaries with teachers, that we could share salaries with doctors. And what is saddening is that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have just shown greater sensitivity and greater understanding of the situation because they have realized that under such an intensity of the crisis it is better to accept a lower salary than to lose their jobs. So citizens have shown greater understanding than you in the opposition and then you realize this most harmful law of the decade, which is common demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51080	Thank you. And now we have the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is incorrect to assume that 10% of Croatian citizens have 90% of new savings. It's never been published anywhere, nor is it official. So that's incorrect first data. Secondly, it is incorrect for the state to be run by the police by a state. That's what you said. The police have their legal powers and she works in accordance with the law no matter what you think. And the state is run in a democratic way, and you know it very well. You don't have to talk like that. And thirdly, as far as you really belong to the absurd theater, the fact that you finally said it would be good for this law to remain in force and to continue to pay that 2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51082	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51083	And not to collect, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51084	No throwing away, Your Honor. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51085	Thank you. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Caine who said the government was just waiting for the election. So I'm going to say that at this point, the government is currently providing favourable credit for entrepreneurs, that it is preparing itself with a full pair of tourist seasons, that a whole series of competitions are under way for entrepreneurs in the Ministry of Economy, that negotiations with the EU are being completed, that the privatisation of the shipyard is under way, etc. The government is not waiting for the elections, but is preparing quality for the elections this way. And also colleague Cain said we scared people. You can say that on your behalf because you are just announcing a new VAT rate, new taxes, new cancellations, the collapse of the tourist season, you are scaring people, not all of us here together. And eventually as a summary of everything he said everything goes to hell. Someone else will decide who goes to hell, and I think you're on your way to finish there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51086	Thank you. Now it is time to correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51087	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, I'll confirm to you what your colleagues have said, and you've said it several times. You said, I quote, "This law was a total failure." A colleague of Cain's would have been a total failure if it hadn't been for that law. You know why? Because we couldn't provide pensions or salaries to the public sector, and we have to say that they're teachers, doctors, cops, military. There wouldn't be enough money at the end of 2009. The implementation of this law provided for the money and paid for it. I know it bothers you, but the fact that the law was welcomed by the Croatian public is not as much as the Croatian public. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51088	Thank you. Please don't throw it away. Don't throw it away. Let's move on with the corrections of incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Caine who said, "This law has scared people." Although my colleagues and colleagues have already partially corrected this inaccuracies, it is simply not exactly a colleague of Cain because the fear of people, i.e. citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in this Assembly, is constantly carrying out opposition. And the incorrect assumption is yours and that this is "the most harmful law of the past decade", and I quote and think I'm correct in quoting your quote. The colleagues corrected it, this certainly wasn't a harmful law, and I think and I suggest, it wouldn't be a waste of the law to bring it in to ban the fear of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the way that you all here on the left hand side of the assembly are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51090	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain incorrectly states that people were actually afraid of these laws, which is not true. People were scared, as I called it, of a syndrome that seems to have infected the opposition, only the pour spreads blackness only when it's in danger, and the opposition does it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51092	Thank you. It is now up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51093	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government, the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. I didn't report for correction of incorrect allegations, and the replicas and I can't do the Rules of Procedure, but here I hear that this law was necessary, that it was necessary to maintain jobs, preserve jobs in the public sector, education, health care, police, etc. So I wonder if today is already on the agenda of this House of High House law or the bill of law under which it is abolished, to say, in a people's language, have there stopped any reasons why this crisis law with that tax or crisis tax, harrassor, whatever anyone wants or likes to say, has been passed? Did they cease to exist the reasons why this locket was brought, voted here in the Parliament, by the parliamentary majority? Well, they didn't, and we know they didn't. Then why is it abolished? And why so since 01/07? Just since 01.07? Why with today or since 01.05, since it's April 15th. We can't put that law out in the People's Newspaper. So, a crisis tax or a harbinger. What's 01.07. to make it 01.07.? What is it in 2011, so a year and a half to pay off those lagging incentives for peasants? Everything on hold, everything on the run and so on. So, on the run, we'll give the peasants 2011 those 205 million due and promised and signed incentives. What exactly measures the economic, economic, financial situation in the country? Let's take any factor objective, unemployment rate. Mr. Cain is very good at it, I would no longer speak and elaborate, so we know that unemployment is on the rise. GDP, gross social product down. And he told me well, a drop in purchasing power, a very clear drop in consumption, a drop in investment, a drop in foreign investment in the Croatian state by over 50% compared to 2009. These are objective indicators, objective state parameters, financial conditions, economic conditions in this environment where Greece has gone bankrupt. So then a folk proverb: "Long as Greece" might soon change this last word, "Long as Croatia" Although it is very, very common and settled in the people this saying "Long as Greece". That debt that comes to this year for 20 billion and 100 million kuna, someone here has already spoken and I wonder how in the situation that I was talking about and I said these objective indicators, to repay that debt in the first place. So, there's no reason, there's no reason why they say that it was necessary to bring him in, vote, now all of a sudden stop there's these reasons. It's a great situation, and we can stop with the harachus. Let's not. And when this Crisis Tax Act was adopted, the HDSSB had amendments that were not accepted. And they were facing only that socially sensitive side, where we said it wasn't the same thing to take someone 60 kunas who had two children or who lived alone. This was not accepted because it was too complicated for the state to count who had children, who had no children, etc. who has a large family, who lives as a single man, etc. So it's not accepted. There's a 4% wage left, and there's 23% of which nobody's talking about right now as if it's something normal from 22 to 23, so there's a rumor that it might be increased to 25%. But it's just rumors, so don't make me wrong, even though it's written in the press. This government, which came up to a year and less, clearly with that former prime minister, claimed that it would only nick us or as they say in Slavonia strike a little after the Croatian crisis, that there would be no serious consequences it really deeply, deeply submerged Croatia. And why did she sink Croatia? So here in one debate a month ago, it was said that in the last 8 years, some legal entities, I mean, first of all, banks, insurance companies, and more, were 222 billion kunas or 30 billion euros. What is this state in which the citizens of their savings benefit from 222 billion kuna, and we do not know where that profit is, and that the state has fallen to what it has fallen to, at the level of approximately Greece or pre-Greek syndrome? Where's the money? Couldn't it have been as someone said on this left-hand side of a certain tax policy and taxed that profit and at least 10% of those 222 billion to merge into the state budget, and then they wouldn't be in the deficit, or they'd be in some minimum deficit. And we could settle public sector needs as someone immediately said teachers, teachers, getting political doctors, political points cheap on this part of our citizens, who you mean didn't deserve that pay. They don't teach our children, they don't treat people what you want to say, and they don't deserve pay because there's no money in the budget. The other day, I made a list of the audits even though we adopted it here in the 2008 Pensions Assembly and saw that no pensions were paid to 105 million kunas in 2008. Some under the age of 10 receive a pension and are already 2m underground, or as the people have said, already 2m without a geometer. Well, the money I don't want to say there is and you can see this waste all over the place. But this country has no concept, this government has no concept. It's not the same concept as strategy. The strategy is already something to be implemented. But the concept of economic concept, financial concept, concepts however you want, reform. So if you have a concept of development then you can also make a reform, if you can't make a reform or public sector, Mr. Kunst. I've had good cancer and phoned an ordinary citizen, a publicist, to say in the southern part of Croatia. So he says like this, clearly metaphorically speaking. "Swipes a liter and saves on matches. There's nothing this government promises, and that's what keeps it. Work slowly and therefore work unquality." Very conveniently speaking, very conveniently this moment and here's the Harach Act that was passed before even retrograded six months ago, now we have it on benches again and we're discussing it because we have and we have 6, 7 clubs and 30 MPs, and we spent 2 days before almost as much as I remember in the debate on this same problem. And that's where we're gonna kick it again, so we're gonna spend a lot of time on the wrong move that's been made. Because if he wasn't wrong, he wouldn't have come to the bench as a correction. Energy, someone mentioned energy. Fuels have increased in the last 2 months 10%. Is that right, Cain? But you must, Mr. Cain, that INA for the first time has ended a year with a loss of 376 million kuna. INA has paid back the government's debt on behalf of the tax obligations and the rest of the billion-and-a-half kuna. Croatia's citizens will pay nicely in the price of fuel, by increasing the price of fuel that has no objective, realistic basis for increasing because the price of oil on the world market is stable, as well as on the Mediterranean. It's obviously not stable with us, and it's not stable, it's stable, it just needs to settle losses, and it needs to settle what's paid to the state at the end of the year and at the beginning of this year, worth a billion-and-a-half kuna. All citizens through the price of fuel from citizens' pockets will be charged. And now, in the end, I am not at all in doubt whether this bill is passed or not, given the social status of our citizens, clearly that the great majority will benefit, so however large this amount will be, so that we as a HDSB club will vote in favour of this bill. But it is time for us to reconsider a little bit, I would not say to raise our heads because obviously we cannot gather heads and work very seriously on the concept of Croatia's development, the implementation of serious radical reforms, especially in the public sector, and finally on the strategy, the concept of getting out of this crisis by developing and investing in the energy sector, first of all because we are lagging behind the most, and can be invested. Investment is, as far as I know, in some other directions doesn't bring development and profit. And finally, I agree with finally working on a change in tax policy and in terms of taxing profits, high profits and dividends that are of high value, rather than bringing a hack this past or some possibly future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51094	Thank you. I'm asking again to stick to the subject in the debate. I understand the need for people to say more and tolerate it, but it will be very difficult to tolerate that it is so broadly covered by these two laws of topics and things that have nothing to do with those two laws. Now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51095	Well, a colleague of Grubisic's is actually very difficult to correct, his incorrect allegations because he doesn't actually have any exact allegations. But he said something, says the government has no strategy and no concept. Well, you see, colleague Grubisic, it's these laws that you tried to discuss that just now that the government has secured salaries, pensions for workers, pensioners, etc. Well, then if you were a little bit more interested, you'd come up with one material that was brought by the government in early 2009 with a whole set of measures and laws just to delay this crisis, but you don't know it, but here you are talking, we talked a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51096	Thank you. Your Honor, no benching. Now it is time to correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Grubisic, who said six months ago, a law was passed on a harrassor. It's simply not true because neither the People's Newspaper nor the review of the laws passed, there's no written record of the law being passed. Otherwise, we could if we wanted to respect this in the end was also a violation of the Rules of Procedure because a colleague, not a few times but over several times, misquoted the name of the law he was talking about, and it could have been a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, I'm really going to have to agree with a colleague from the Labour Party who deals or shows concern for the use of Croatian language, and that we do not allow here in the Assembly the wrong title of the law that this House of the Highs is bringing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51098	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51099	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The MP says, of course, it's incorrect that it's the wrong law because if it wasn't wrong, it wouldn't have come to the bench. This is an incorrect colleague precisely because we all know that last year when we passed that law that he had until 31 December 2010 and the government had clearly determined and stated, the moment the conditions were obtained for the possible application of certain provisions that could be abolished had now come the moment when it was estimated that it could go from 1.7 to 2%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51100	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect quote, Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51101	Well, here's the quote that's previously been made by my colleague, but we'll figure it out one more time. So it was not a wrong move, as counterpart Grubisic said, who left the assembly because he is aware that he has said a lot of inaccuracies, because it is clear that the law is valid by the end of this year, and if it is possible that certain parts will be abolished before that, as we do today. Therefore, there were conditions for this law to be amended and that it could be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51102	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. I think it is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, but I would ask that still MPs and MPs read the name and last name so that it can be read. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51103	All right, in Croatia, letters are in force and written, they're not just big ones. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The removal of the rate of crisis tax of 2% on receiving from 3 to 6 thousand kuna is postponed until 1 July. As we've heard here now, the opening explanation for this delay of a month and a half to prepare the citizens, to adapt, so what is it? For these 100, 200, 300, 400 kunas, if they didn't rush into supermarkets, into shopping chains, buy something, and they wouldn't have gotten into it. Right? How else do you even interpret this delay that has been introduced here for no rational reason? Because the hack came in suddenly, there was no adjustment. He came right away, and now here's the suspension still has a certain delay. However, what should be said immediately at the outset is that both the rate of crisis tax should be abolished and 4% and the receipt of more than 6 thousand kunas, so Croatia needs to be abolished by haraks and a fairer tax policy, i.e. it needs more fairer taxes in order to ensure a fundamental constitutional value, which is distribution social justice. However, we are light years away from this proclaimed constitutional principle. The revenues of the state budget from the hackers of 2 and 4% per month were about 205 million kuna. But immediately, the question arises here what the government is doing and what the government is doing. He's going to solve it, and he sees all his power, and that's why he'd want more citizens to admire it. Says here's a colleague of Rocksandic's citizens hailed the introduction of the harrassors. I don't know where that bowing was, Mrs. Roxandic, I didn't see it. Namely, what's this about? Things are very simple, transparent, but we better say Croatian transparent. In fact, this isn't the move of one rational, one meaningful policy, this is the expression of a frightened order, gentlemen, you're scared, you're afraid of early elections. That's the only reason. This is what all the businessmen told you, this is what all the advisors who Mrs. Kosor gathered in the government told you, that the harvesting, that the introduction of the harachus brought one great... investor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in all, it is now evident that the introduction of harachas has caused more damage than benefits. And then we wondered if this famous government drug would kill patients, but you didn't listen. The government is unequally ineffective as it is expensive, but it does not only serve the government to be useless, but here it turns out that it wanted to be harmful. The government has lost 600, or the state of Croatia lost 600 million kuna because of the harrases. In fact, it has picked up 1.2 billion kuna with this tax harrass, which corresponds to about 2 thousand flats of 60 square meters as determined by independent trade unions, but at the same time the state lost 600 million kuna because of the loss of 50,000 jobs, 150 million kuna was paid less income tax. We've already approached 320 thousand unemployed. Thus, an additional cost was created precisely because of these lost jobs of 450 million kuna for unemployment workers who had lost their jobs. If you'd listened not only to the opposition but also to those people who gathered themselves together, if you'd listened to the citizens, it wouldn't have happened, but in vain we're talking, like the wind, it's like the wind going through an empty pumpkin, and it just can't be like that anymore because the damage is enormous. Namely everything is always justified if something is made of a crisis. Now you say the crisis is over and... So is this a magic word of crisis where the world is coming out of it, where during the crisis prices were falling there, and what is with us, if we appreciate it if they fall, it's insignificant, but all of this has now shown the analysis of the union basket, the calculation of the union basket that the prices of food products have accumulated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How's that? The crisis and prices are growing with us. So obviously something is the original Croatian product here. In fact, citizens see what is causing and who is causing the crisis in the Republic of Croatia. In January, it increased, the union cart prices increased by 0.68%. It currently stands at 6 thousand 430 kuna, and therefore the trade unions have calculated that all 83.7 cost of life can be covered. So despite the promises, Ms. Prime Minister's appeal that the trade chains don't collect prices is an unusual way of ruling the appeals and the people's people's bereavements, and so they pray. Therefore, it is, thus showing itself not only, it was clear that they would not listen, but it is essentially the government they are. Instead of creating fundamental values, solidarity, community, this authority has established and allowed for the tyranny of financial capital which has further caused the advanced monetaryisation of human relations. And that's something devastating, and that's what we've got going on today. Therefore, the prime minister often wonders, and here I would like to cut something but no one will cut it. Is the policy of a single government just to be cut, is that the meaning of politics? Then who are the tailors of Croatian doom. At the end of the day, if we're at the cutting, then who created the false defenders. Who hired numerous and overnumbered companies owned by the state. So please be nice. So, I think there's a lot of false hopes and empty promises, that we need to really establish, that there's anything we can do at all to make the right values, solidarity, community and social justice through every law, not to pour to the rich, but to fill the glass anyway. Of course it's not your job anymore, it's SDP's business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51104	Thank you. Four corrections, four replicas. First Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the colleague incorrectly states that this tax has been taken from people 100, 200, 400 kuna. So with this tax, people paid 60 to 120 kuna, which is a very transparent allegation. Furthermore, the second incorrect quote is not a harrass but a crisis tax. I repeat, I understand the Turks have ruled these areas for hundreds of years, left many offspring, and no one forbids you to speak the language of your fathers, but in the Croatian Parliament they would say Croatian Labourists should speak Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51106	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So also, my colleague Anticevic, I did not say that the citizens welcomed the introduction of the harrass. I know what the word "huge" means, maybe unlike you, and I don't use it in the Croatian Parliament or in the public. You imposed that word, and in no way did I say it. If I mentioned a crisis tax then I said it was a tax on wages, pensions and other receipts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51108	Mr. Representative Damir Huška, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Davor Hushka. I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Anticevic when she said that the introduction of a special tax lost 50,000 jobs. That's not true. We all know very well, and you too, colleagues of Antičević, that jobs are being closed around the world, that people around Europe are losing their jobs, as well as in Croatia. And in richer, more developed economies than Croatia and in economies that have not introduced the special tax as introduced in Croatia at 24% and that the real reasons for losing jobs in the global economic crisis. Here's what you've just done with your exposure correcting what I thought when Mr. Greek said on behalf of the club that we're going to have a different SDP dialogue one smarter, wiser, better-quality dialogue, but here's your exposure just confirms the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51110	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51111	counterpart Anticevic said the government in this country cut everything. So I'm going to remind my colleague that the government has implemented selective savings and has not unilaterally intervened in any regulation governing social rights or in any collective contract that has governed material rights. So that's completely incorrect. And as far as this tax is concerned, I don't think you need to be re-interpreted because it's completely clear to you, but it's a matter of media performance at this point because it's being broadcast by television for the public. If these were the exact means, if I didn't repeat it to you, and ask the workers, the pensioners if it wasn't for this 2% tax, the question was, would the pensioners get a pension, would the workers get a salary?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51112	Replications. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51113	Replica, yes. Yes, it turns out to be a man of cynicism, that because of this law, people even cut their veins with great pleasure. But if it wasn't for the law, I'd actually want to de-commit with the thesis that's being heard here, like the state wouldn't pay the wages, it wouldn't pay the pensions. But Mr. Kunst, the rest of the HDZ gentlemen, so what's today 2010. Croatia in a better situation than the one we were in 2009? ... Well, we're in a worse situation. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We have a VAT 23%, 3 billion kuna more in the budget, which I mean bigger VAT, but we have 75 thousand fewer jobs, so much more social, now the pensions that the state needs to pay off. Less contributions, or these charges. Last year, the state returned 11 billion kuna, this year it has to pay 20.9 billion kuna more. The loss at the store this year is 7.8% higher than last year. Last year, GDP fell 5.8% this year will fall at least 0.3%, Rohatinski said. Tourism in 2009 had a billion euros less than in 2008, this year it will have even less than 2009. Gas prices are higher. Okay, it's more excise, but it's less driving. Fifteen thousand new defenders this year. Interests are the same this year, if not bigger than last year. And now somebody tell me in this country that 2010 lives better than it did in 2009 and that the odds are better today than they were yesterday. And speaking of salaries, the state can somehow pay off, but it's far harder to pay off that little craftsman, the little businessman, the little craftsman, the little merchant, and they're in real trouble. The state can still manage here somehow, but don't sell us the thesis that we're in a far better situation today than we were last year. We didn't! We're all on worse times.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51114	Replication response, Madam Representative. ... How could you not? [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] I saw that it was, so you pulled the plate again. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51115	In your debate, colleagues, Ingrid, you well reminded the ruling majority's representatives that citizens welcomed the introduction of this tax. However, it was also said that it was actually a kind of solidarity tax, that the introduction of this tax saved the Mirovinski insurance and that thanks to this tax in Croatia, imagine, there were still salaries and pensions paid because that tax was not there. The peace insurance is not saved by this tax because this is the income of the state budget, not the Mirovinski Insurance, and the Government has saved the Peace Insurance by freezing pension growth not by this tax. Second, they get angry all the time when you call this tax a harachum. And because of those who have not yet remembered the name of the new parliamentary party Croatian Labour Party, Croatian Labour Party does not call this a harachm but a pure Croatian haezarin, as a credit to the authority that introduced the tax. And when another person repeats that, thanks to this tax, they regularly pay salaries and pensions for what other message to the people? Shut up, be quiet because thanks to us you're still getting pensions and salaries! ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51116	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51117	Well, fellow Anticevic-Marinović, you were talking here about not knowing why the crisis tax is being abolished right now. I think the answer is actually what this is trying to do here, primarily Mrs. Kosor, to show again generous and socially sensitive by abolishing this crisis tax before the order. On the other hand, however, citizens will be burdened with two times as many other charges. Like an increase in the price of gasoline, an increase in electricity prices, an increase in gas prices. So this is all one fog where people get back what they've earned and what's their right, but on the other hand, Mrs. Kosor will put on a much bigger charge and take it 2 times or 3 times more out of their pockets than she's been taking a crisis tax. On the other hand, it really is a blow to the common sense that this crisis tax and the collection of money in the budget that they actually saved the payout of salaries and pensions. If you look at the annual cost of wages and pensions are somewhere over 60 billion kuna. What is collected by a crisis tax is only a billion and 600 million kuna. Well, gentlemen, dear, don't underestimate Croatian citizens. If something is in such proportions and with such a difference, it really cannot be said that it saved pensions and wages. And in the end, I would just like to say that one responsible government cannot ask social partners or citizens to give up something themselves. The responsible authority must make moves, and apparently Mrs. Jadranka Kosor does not have the strength to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51118	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51119	That colleague, responsible authority, but there's always someone else responsible. This authority is responsible for everything, but responsible for nothing. It's her motto. So, while this power and with this bill of law lead the battle how better to look. It's her main fight, not the fight to improve the citizens. How to show something better, how to better figure it out in public. So, as the government leads the battle for a better look, so far the citizens lead the battle for a better life and responsibility nowhere. You're talking about these amounts that would be provided, or how the ruling spoke, so it wasn't for wages, so it wasn't for pensions. So who's to blame? So do you think you're going to settle your wages and this from the crows? Well, that's a crazy answer. And after all, how much did it add up? In five days' wages and pensions. What are you going to do tomorrow, what are you going to do the day after tomorrow? You're afraid in fact, my colleague, that's clear to all of us, afraid of temporary choices. Let's go save you saved Dade.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51120	And Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51121	Thank you. A colleague of Anticevic mentioned a hack, so several colleagues got excited about it. I recommend they go online on Google to the Harras Association and they'll see that they get special taxes. That's interesting. That it implies that it is no longer a matter of opposition but of a common culture. So, as far as he was concerned, I've already mentioned in the Ottoman Empire the bully gave him the right to personal and property security. He's led us to general uncertainty. Well, it's part of a policy that tried to save what's being saved that doesn't, because it's a guilty policy that's generally led to 320 thousand unemployed. And you know the structure of the unemployed by age? 32.5% of unemployed are under 30 years, 41.6% are 30 to 49, 25.9% are 50 and over. A large part of our fellow citizens found themselves in social isolation kicked out of the world of work. It's all part of this government's policy. Today to say that this move was successful, that he was saving those who were threatened, because only those who had paid as much as 3,000 kunas had to pay this tax, really sounds like extreme cynicism and is offensive to an average intelligent man. So at least let us be so worthy that we do not insult those who have been thrown not by our own fault upon their knees.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51122	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51123	Umberto Eco is a long time ago when, it can be called a rose and a different name but it smells. So when some death can give you a name I don't know. The effect will always be the same. Is that a special tax, is that a crisis tax? The fact is, you don't take care of the consequences, you see the causes. Because your arguments are worse than your own moves. So again, how to spin, how to bluff, would you like to be a harrakes, and you wouldn't want to call yourself that, that is, what counterpart Roksandić says if people welcomed you for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51124	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51125	And the introduction of a crisis tax and now its partial abolition of evidence is merely for the wandering, unmistakable and incompetence of this government. It's actually a tax on incompetence. You do what the medieval Inquisition did. This tax is a Spanish boot. First you put that Spanish boot on a man as a means of torture until he admits you're a good government, and then at one point you take off that boot and ask him to be thrilled that you've freed him from trouble. You boast how many people have been spared this torture of yours, this grumbling that this crisis tax has introduced. As a reason for the introduction of a crisis tax, you state the global crisis. So can you tell me what other country in the world is increasing taxes or introducing a crisis tax like this to fight the crisis? So others cut contributions, cut taxes to boost consumption. You're the only original, the only one in the whole world who could think of nothing else but impose on the citizens. You know when he tries to defend himself indefensible, then we get a statement from counterpart Roksandic, as the public welcomed the crisis tax. I remember that general enthusiasm well. This was done in the squares by the citizens with joy, irritation, flag and state and HDZ, the people sang, mass support meetings were held in support of the crisis tax. And in HDZ, even an increased consumption of the well was observed. So the citizens enthusiastically said counterpart Roksandic responded to the introduction of a crisis tax. And with her statement, counterpart Roksandic, but I suppose the entire HDZ she represents because it is part of, enters serious competition to be declared a person of the year together with his statement, which will certainly be declared a declaration of the year. That's how he defends himself indefensibly. What are the effects of this harachus, for the citizens have shown their enthusiasm by calling it a harachus. One billion and 600 million kuna more in the budget. You say if it wasn't for that, it wouldn't be for pay. Well, of course it wouldn't be for wages, so of course one incompetent government can't even secure payouts. Maybe it would be for wages if it wasn't so much stolen and embezzled from Brodosplit to HEP, from trucks to highways. It's so stolen, whoever did it, those who wrote a letter to Barba Luka to hire them so they could do damages. Well, if it wasn't for that much stolen, you wouldn't have to. And the salaries and pensions could probably be paid, though, by a normal, capable government. What are the effects of this crisis tax, how many jobs have been opened since this crisis tax was introduced. Well, neither. How many jobs did you save from shutting down? None of them. Fifty thousand unemployed more since the crisis tax was introduced. Unemployment is growing absolutely at the same rate. What that bully did, that crisis tax, he only further reduced the poor standard of citizens you've brought him to in the last six years. Personal consumption has been reduced, but fear has also been produced among citizens because what a normal citizen now thinks about such a government. Fighting for power she said there were no new taxes, and then when she came to power, when she showed all her incompetence then she increased the VAT and introduced the hack. So what can such a citizen be afraid of and wonder what else can I expect from these people? They lied to me, they cheated on me, they promised me one thing and they're doing the opposite. I'll get more taxes, more taxes. Well, of course I won't spend it, so of course I'll save as much as I can. People are afraid, they're afraid to spend, they're afraid of the future. It's a psychological effect that caused this tax. How you're fighting a crisis situation here was one way. The other way is that Minister Shuker travels around the world, he's not here today and he owes us. Every seven, every 14 days, he gets in charge again and then every time he holds a press conference and says, "It's not like people are crazy." It's like every time I replicate, I tell someone, but this isn't a replica. What would people think of me? What can I possibly think of as a man who acts like that? You owe the country an obvious, billions of euros and then comes and says no, no, be careful that's not your new job. It's at the level of my colleague, Roksandić. That statement is right on this level, about the great enthusiasm of the citizens you've burdened with harassing. You know, and Governor Rohatinski, who has helped the government so far, the man has worked really hard, used all his knowledge, all his ability to help this government, and he has lost his patience and raised his hands to you, and he said the other day he won't give the Croatian National Bank any more money to that government because it's not going to help further ruin this country because you're ruining it ruthlessly. He tells you the other day Rohatinski is not encouraging housing what will help the country, and this government is doing exactly that. When you tell her, when her waist tells her what she can't do, she does exactly that. When the profession told her don't introduce new taxes, you'll make things worse, the government introduces new taxes. It's like you're doing it on purpose. It doesn't look like just one incompetence to me anymore, it looks like one malignancy. How to torture people, make them feel even worse than they do now, not listen to the profession and why they don't listen to the profession in the end. So the advisors the prime minister took tell her that's not good. You know, after all this, I think the time has come for Prime Minister Kosor to keep her promise, and her promise has been made to Sanader here and me. And I think the time has come for you all to follow the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51126	Eight replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51127	Comrade Stazić, you have noticed in the reasoning of the law the self-thanks of the promoter, who will not have to pay for the HDZ-arina from now on. I've really given myself a hard time so I've tried to figure out how many citizens and why they won't have to pay now. Eighty-seven thousand pensioners have never said they shouldn't have paid, and now a new 190 thousand won't pay this tax. This means that a million and 60 thousand pensioners receive less than 6 grand a month. A million and 60 thousand pensioners. But they did not say that it remains in force for the freezing of pensions, that pensions are not harmonised so that those pensioners who have not so far and will not pay this tax remain damaged for missing pension harmonisation. We're going after the workers. 575 thousand workers, boasting, we didn't tax. Why? Because they had salaries of less than 3,000 kunas. Now that he's got another $720, he won't pay. Why? Because they've got less than 6 grand. A million and 290 thousand employees receive less than 6 grand a month and here we make such a good move, now you won't pay taxes because you receive less than 6 grand. It is the border of wealth in Croatia obviously. A four-member family basketball, March 6,600, so at least the 6600 untaxed base was not raised. The average hour the worker receives in Croatia in March is at 29.30 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51128	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51129	On whose behalf should we thank this...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51130	In the name of the Rules of Procedure, which is...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51131	Well, it's not the Rules of Procedure's fault for a captain like this. Only if I can say more
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51132	No, don't blame me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51133	64% of workers receive wages less than average.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51134	On behalf of the party of work and progress, moderate progress within the framework of the law. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51135	Well, fellow Stazic, you were talking about how the HDZ government couldn't think of anything but imposing on citizens. Unfortunately, it is so, they were not even able to accept, if not our laws, then at least as their proposals and give here in the procedure so a series of measures that we have proposed, which could help Croatian businessmen, today we would certainly have some less unemployed than we have now. But I must also say that this policy of the Croatian government, primarily the Government of Jadranka Kosor on some portals, is characterized as a crime of premeditation, because it is indeed a crime, according to its own citizens and its own state, when you see that the problems are huge, that the problems of many from day to day, that more and more people are out of work every day, more and more companies are failing and going bankrupt, and that you are doing nothing just to preserve your good image. I think that one responsible government must and at the cost of falling out of power tomorrow make some moves that the state and its citizens will finally start pulling out of the crisis. And finally, as it has been done here for the last two months, with measures that the government has taken when the CNB fired certain financial resources that should have been directed primarily to Croatian businessmen, we learned from a number of businessmen who said they couldn't get credit when they reported, because they were told that they had paid their taxes neatly, that they didn't owe anything to the state and that they couldn't get credits, which means that these money had gone into the hands of the state again, to the hands of Minister Shucker, who actually filled the budget for salaries and pensions, and not through the crisis tax, but the businessmen had lost their credit and no money.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51136	And Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51137	Well, I wouldn't agree with my colleague, Stazic, who clearly said that no one in Europe in this crisis has taxed its taxpayers in this time of crisis and I think that's where he was wrong. Almost all countries in Europe have been actively engaged in the crisis. First of all, state budgets gave money and businesses and banks and saved the system, gave it away. That's not what our country did. Our government didn't do that. Our government, vice versa, raised money to save the budget. That's not how the crises work out. But what's most important and what makes us different is the social Democrats from the others who are currently in power, who are taxed for lack of income. Here you can see the Croatian government, the ruling coalition has burdened the workers and pensioners with tax. So the ones who are the most vulnerable and the ones who get the least. And imagine the wonders, the old capitalist countries in Europe a la Austria, and la Germany also taxed the bankers, banks, their incomes, and imagine the UK just a little bit introduced and the tax additionally on dividends, so they introduced taxes, but they took the rich, those who have but did not touch their workers and pensioners, this is the difference between social democracy and the ruling coalition, which is the difference between the European parliamentary countries and the Croatian parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51138	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51139	Thank you. You spoke of the general enthusiasm in Croatia when these tax taxes were introduced which the people call in their ignorance, but the enthusiasm was not only in Croatia, it seems to have been around the world, and the result is that foreign capital entered 55% less last year in Croatia than in the previous year. So those abroad were so thrilled that they invested 1.8 billion euros in Croatia and 2008. 4.1 billion euros. It is likely that this enthusiasm will be further affected by yesterday's data presented at the crafts forum that the disastrous numbers of liquidity, so the unpaid and the obligations of legal and natural persons at the end of February came up with 27.6 billion kuna. You see, this is the consequence of a single policy in Croatia, or else we go back to that hack again, he was in the Ottoman Empire and was proof of the loyalty of the Sultan. It seems that our owners have abolished the pendulum to find out what form of loyalty exists to the government and among Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51140	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51141	Well, my colleague Jurovic isn't the only stupid thing that's been said about this law. See what it says here in the explanation, it will start to apply 1.7, and the reason for the delay, why not now? Why not May 1st? The reason for the delay is for the citizens to prepare themselves. Get ready for what? To keep them 100 kunas more. And when the law was introduced, it was introduced immediately. So they weren't supposed to prepare to lose 100 kuna or 120 kuna. But now they have to prepare for two months what they're going to do with those 100 kunas that are going to be left with more. So these are all the very nebulis that are being said about this law, in defense in an attempt to defend the defense, in an attempt to defend something that is absolutely indefensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51142	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51143	Dear fellow Stazic, one of the groups that welcomed the introduction of so-called "Stazic" with great enthusiasm. The anti-recession measures, including the reduction of unemployment benefits, were this army of 320 thousand unemployed. Some of them went out to the streets thrilled that they probably took the wrong banners, so it says "Government" down there, not "Government," but I guess that's because they got the wrong door at the warehouse. If you remember last year, the government abolished among other things and a good part of the unemployment benefits by saying that 45 million kuna saved in 2009 and 2010 will be used to subsidise the fifth working day. I have a document, signed by Mrs. Kosor, saying that until now the total grace and love of the state has been used by 27 workers with a total of 47 thousand 325 kuna. Pity and shame. Not only did they deceive us in July last year, but they won't take that money back where it belongs. And that's why one of the most popular people in our country is Minister of Finance Shucker, who they usually say was his house far away. And at the end of the harrakes and God, you are hateful, to heaven puffed and bold.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51144	Oh, how poetic! Dear Vice-President of the House, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51145	Thank you very much. Through this exhibition and these replicas, I think it's said more or less everything that's important to tell the citizens, but I'm going to look back at something that you mentioned to my colleague Stazic. You said there was a fear of a future with citizens. Not only, unfortunately, fear of the future but there is also fear of repression. Therefore, the voices that confirm that this measure as an anti-recession or pro-developmental measure is completely missed outside this assembly where only one can speak without fear of getting a pendreka might be very quiet. It is constantly said that work in Croatia is expensive and that is why we have economic problems. Gross pays big, and net pays less and less. Stir in the mouth of politicians from the government, and there is no coercion. It's just that there's a whole new thing going on and on and on about who now? Not to those who have too many, some who remain to live but are taken from those who work and barely have their minimum needs. You're saying these arguments are funny. I can't be any different because this measure has simply been missed since the beginning. She's another one of those cute stories, and that's why it takes these two, three months to keep talking about how that's how the government thinks about citizens and gives them back something. He's actually giving them back the crumbs from what she took from them. It does no good to economic development, to reduce the negative effects of recession, but it has one effect. It's filling the government's register so the government can still waste money on unnecessary and unnecessary things.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51146	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51147	The fellow Stazic started a little bit and then went in the other direction in the view that the government knew nothing more than to introduce a crisis tax, but then you fixed up when you said that the government really knew. There's been a disposition for 10 years of strategy, a solution that ad lemons reject. They came from the profession, coming from the prime minister's advisor. And obviously this isn't about any ignorance. Is this about malignancy? I wouldn't say that if she didn't love her citizens. This is simply about the government's goals being completely disparant, they are completely different to the public's goals. The government, unfortunately, has only an irresponsible government, only one goal, to remain in power. To the government responsible, this would not be a pleasant position. In times like this, being in power is not pleasant, and they so passionately and deeply want to reject every single one of them's over-supply proposal that comes from people who in this country know what solutions are and just the opposite of all these solutions are solely working on how to keep the emperor's clothes from being removed and not to get naked until the end. It's a measure of the problem we have with this law-making that damages and then retreats as we have a chance to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51148	And Mr. Representative Joseph Leco, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51149	Thank you very much. A fellow Stazić not to you, but to Croatian citizens he should say three things directly. The governor of the CNB directly and seriously warned the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and told the Government "I will not agree with your policy, nor will I help it in this form." Why? Because he estimated that the government's economic policy is only a purpose to fill the budget, not to develop Croatian society, to worry about employment and the standard of Croatian citizens. The second thing he said was that it wasn't just the HDZ government policy headed by Jadranka Kosor, it was politics before that. So, headed by Eve Sanader. And thirdly, it is important to tell citizens that these social situations of responsible authorities and responsible government leave citizens to decide in democratic elections. That's very important to say because there's been no change in direction for 5 or 6 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51150	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51151	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. It seems to me that not only does the government show contempt for this, but the entire state is on it at this hour, or at least yesterday. So there are no MPs and he doesn't want to hear what other colleagues have to say or think. I agree with colleagues who said that this government move was a brilliant move for her because while other governments in the EU were mostly breaking their heads, engaging resources, experts, the professional public, the general public, the financial public how to find the methods and ways to get out of the crisis our government came up with overnight how to get citizens' hands in the pocket and took some money from them. And yet today it is said that representatives of the ruling majority that the people were looking forward to it. Well, every time the government puts their hand in the citizens' pocket, they probably call out. But in our opposition, they seem to be more sketchy or sketchy than they are calling out for what the government is doing. What are the results, the effects of this tax called in the legal terms of a special income tax, and the people in Croatian understand it much better and more, it is called a harachus? When the raider was introduced to Croatia, a million 524 thousand 360 citizens of Croatia were employed. Today, in Croatia, a million 436 thousand 640 citizens or 87 thousand 720 Croatian citizens work less. That's the effect of the crowbar. When the hack was introduced somewhere around 5,000 people worked, and they didn't receive any pay. Today, more than 70,000 people work, and they don't get paid. It is almost certain that even those who are unemployed today, or who have lost their jobs, and these are more than 90 thousand and those who work and do not receive wages, do not pay for a hack or whatever we call it. For he who doesn't work doesn't receive any wages, nor does he pay a harbinger. He who works and doesn't receive a salary is absolutely certain that the employer doesn't pay for a hack before he pays his salary. When he was introduced, there were 248 thousand 586 people at the Employment Service looking for a job. Today there are 317 thousand 625 or so last month or 69 thousand 39 citizens of Croatia have been more registered at the Employment Service in this period since the harrass was introduced. It's the main effect of the hack. They say here colleagues have come to pay public sector wages due to the harbingers. We forget that, in parallel with the introduction of harrases, the pay cut in the public sector by 10%, the salaries were reduced to nurses, doctors, teachers, teachers, cops, customs officers, and then it wasn't collected, because there were no 10% that could be paid, we have to give up something. And immediately the second day Shuker left for those 90% not to pick up the hack, but to release the vault records. And the vault records were issued at an interest rate of 8% and gave a discount of 8%, which is far more than what people gave up at that time because there was allegedly no pay money. Who earned it? Well, the banks. The banks earned more than 10% when they borrowed money from the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia than we asked citizens to give up because here's the money. Not only did the hack help stabilise state finances, it was much more helpful in the vault records. But the vault records are much more expensive than anything the government does, which means we're profiting banks, and that profit banks don't stay in Croatia, they go somewhere outside Croatia. And why is it that now, in fact, the locket is being abolished? If we have 90,000 less people who work, if we have 70,000 more people at the Employment Service, if 70,000 people work and don't get paid. So who's filling the budget? How come now all of a sudden the money in the budget so we can shut down the hack? Well, in the meantime, the government has come up with much more efficient models to take the people's money. Because if a man doesn't work, he doesn't pay for a hack, and that money does. Well, then we'll raise some prices. So the price of gas at the time of the harbinger's introduction was kuna and 27 limes for cubicity. Today, both employees and unemployed and those who work and receive salaries and those who work and do not receive the same cubic of the same Croatian gas pay kuna and 70 lipa, or with an average consumption of how much the average family in Croatia spends 215 kunas more today is paid for gas than it was paid before being introduced. And out of those 215 kunas is 50 kunas is just VAT. So here we'll forgive you these 60 kunas, how generous of the government, because you don't pay anyway, because you don't get paid or what at the Employment Office, but we'll take that VAT very effectively. Because if you don't pay for the gas, the distributors will come and shut down your gas, so they won't have any gas. If your employer keeps you in a slave-ownership relationship and you work and don't get paid, the IRS won't do anything, they won't even block the company, let alone make sure the workers get paid because they work and don't pay. It is quite certain what fellow Stazic has a dilemma, so it is not necessary to prepare the citizens until 1. 7. The government needs to be prepared by 1. Seven, because there's still gonna be some small hole left, not by paying the little crowbar. So we'll do it and that's almost up to 1. 7. have also increased gas prices for citizens and increased electricity prices for citizens. And only with an increase in prices and VAT on this increase in prices in the state budget will there be much more money than it is left to the hacks. But then the government will be sure that everyone will pay and there will be no risk of someone losing their jobs, so there will be no income and there will be no risk if the employer does not pay that he will still have to pay for electricity and gas during that period in which he will spend it. Did someone wonder in the government what the effect of this drastic increase in gas 1. 4. for the economy. How many Croatian citizens will lose their jobs because of this, and it is quite certain that it is not an anti-recession measure, but an anti-industry measure in Croatia. That those who produce will be brought into such a difficult situation that they will close jobs. Some foreign investors who have investments here are thinking about disassembling machines, moving to markets, where MOL miraculously distributes gas. And, behold, the Russian gas in Hungary is 40% cheaper than the Croatian gas in Croatia. And Russian gas is also 40% cheaper in Hungary than Russian gas in Croatia, which the same MOL supplies here in Croatia. That's why MOL doesn't care whether something is produced in Croatia or not. But we can't care. The government can't be anyway and the government can't react to price hikes because it's satisfied because with the price rises VAT and the safe VAT is being collected. We have to ask ourselves how many people are gonna be out of a job by the end of this year? We have to ask ourselves what are these measures that will take Croatia out of the crisis? Unfortunately, no measure has been taken in time. And this harrassing comes too late and comes at a time when the government has come up with a lot more ways to make money more efficient for the people out of their thin wallets anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51152	Thank you. Two corrections and four replicas. First Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51153	Thank you very much. A colleague Mršić here said a number of inaccuracies but I will only try, given the time, at least one, two. First of all, since the SDP is always back on the rail, it returns to the Ottoman Empire and then we will quote if it cannot manage well enough on the computer: "The harach is a personal tax, chieftain in the Ottoman Empire. He was charged with every male non-Muslim head as a kind of ransom from slavery." So let's see what that has to do with what you're always talking about, it has nothing to do with anything. Secondly, it is incorrect that all material rights are reduced. So let me remind you of the fact that in the last five years the level of social rights has been increased several times, pensions by 50%, minimum wage was at one point 60%, salary average by 40%. Give it a try if you can use it, so you can calculate it, you don't have to deceive the public because this is your session that was the last heartwarming. I don't know where you were in 2000 and 2003 when the first thing you did was 30% cut your salary to civil servants and tenants. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51154	Okay. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. All right, all right, buddy Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51155	Well, here's counterpart Mršić says that the measures the government has taken have been anti-recessional and that employers do not pay salaries, which is definitely not true. We know that the price of gas is not real either now and that it will still collect, we listen to experts, Mr. Šunjic and the others, and it is well known. But it's also true that workers couldn't all choose an employer as the top of the SDP. They chose, say, Daimler, from whom they received a few 4.7m euros, divided it and thus destroyed a domestic factory and forced workers onto the road. Find a phone number from Maria Bistrica and you'll hear it there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51156	Replications. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51157	My colleague Mršić, in a series of accurate data you provided, I would have added another latest piece of information to the Croatian National Bank that at the end of January this year, the responsibility of the citizens amounted to 123 billion kuna. Because some also boast that there has been an increase in savings at the same time, and I highly doubt that these 123 billion kuna duties are also the same citizens who have increased their savings. Because if a million and 60 thousand pensioners and a million and a million and 290 thousand employees and 320 thousand unemployed, totalling 2 million 670 thousand, monthly incomes from 0 to 6000 kuna, I repeat from 0 to 6000 kuna, then surely those 2 million 670 thousand citizens did not contribute to the increase in savings but to the increase in debt. You can check that with bank data on the state of the citizens' minus in current accounts. The state continues to collect taxes or charge tight interest when it is not paid. Communal companies continue to regularly charge claims and account for tight interest rates, as well as service providers to which the state has provided monopoly. Let us then pass one law by emergency procedure and to delay the obligations of citizens for 90 days without calculating the tight interest, to give them a break and to prepare for this grace as of July 1st, the abolition of this tax. I think that would actually be a very good move, 90 days of citizens' break to these obligations as a measure of the social solidarity of the state and monopolies with those who receive below 6,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51158	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51159	Thank you. You mentioned a conflict between work and capital. I would say that in Croatia, there is a figuratively speaking one difficult match between labour and capital, with the capital being 10-0, and the judge being on the capital side. That's our government. So the only thing that works is that they're permanent victims and that's the only place they can count. You mentioned the unemployed, so we have a part of the unemployed who would just enter the world of work, who can't find a job and those who have been kicked out of the world of work, are 60.1%. Those who have lost their jobs, who have worked this way, are your structure. Trade at a small 20.6%, processing industry 17.7%, construction 16.5%. They're the ones who got kicked out of work, you see where they came from. From the retail trade, the processing industry, the construction industry, it's the most from there. This tells you what is happening in Croatian society and based on this structure you can come to some very important conclusions about what kind of policy is being conducted in this society. Unfortunately, my County of Split-Dalmatia County is ahead of the absolute number, so by the number of unemployment in February, that number was 60 thousand, which is 12.5% of all unemployed in Croatia. It's a tragedy, such a policy is simply a policy of collapse that doesn't really lead us anywhere. And as far as Maria Bistrica is concerned, there's an SDP in power, that's for those who mentioned it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51160	Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mršić, a very good debate, you have explained nicely to us all who are the real intentions of this government. I actually wanted to say something similar to what my colleague Lesar said. Here's what I'd like to read is a sentence from the explanation of this law, it says: the law particularly protects the interest and takes care of the poorest and socially sensitive group of society that weighs the most heavily on the economic crisis. The law excludes more than a third of the persons employed and 3/4 of the pensioners, means 1/3 of the persons employed and 3/4 of the pensioners have so little salaries and so many miserable pensions that are insufficient and insufficient that they are not even good enough to cover them. They're so ugly and ugly and small that the tax goes to them and it's a disaster. This is proof that this government actually has no strategy or vision and does not know how to cope in these difficult moments and then introduces a hack that is nothing more than an experiment on people, on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. No simulations, no clear assessment, no clear results decide overnight to introduce a hack and then when they see the results are missing, they remove it. So they experiment on the citizens as they come to terms with them, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not experimental rabbits and do not deserve such treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51162	And Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51163	You're worrying me, you know, so many times you've used that Turkish hack that it's just amazing, and you're probably among those who don't just do it on the words of a hack but use even other Turkisms, and that's inadmissible. Ask your colleague Markovanovic, he knows it best. Because what kind of man you must have said in your life about some metals being called copper and steel, so you're probably saying there are some colors, I don't know if it's another Croatian word. Then you probably thought of someone as a fool, so maybe it occurred to you that you had two kidneys, so maybe even in your life you were beating with a hammer, and you got up there on the first floor, you were wearing a bag, you had even boots at home safely and your socks were on your feet. Well, that's scary and scary. How long are you going to be so obnoxious? Is this perhaps because the Republic of Turkey is implementing a great anti-recession programme and is one of the few countries that records production growth? You're probably jealous of Turkey and now you'd like to bring in some of their... Is it also the custom for us to become so successful? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think that's right after all, Mr. Snotty.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51164	Probably no one was thinking of haivan. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a colleague and colleagues from the HDZ Club who get angry when it comes to a burglar, they talk about a crisis tax. You are also saying that it is a tax of solidarity, and in fact if we read the name of the law, we are talking about a special tax on wages, pensions, benefits from independent work. But when we say it's a special tax, it's associated with excises, something else. In fact, it's income tax, it just didn't increase the rates we're paying, but it added, like local self-government can add a cut. But it's not even a crisis tax, because for whom he's a crisis. It is a crisis for the state budget because the state budget is in crisis and with such additional revenues the revenue side is increasing. I'm sure it's not, because if it was solid, then they wouldn't pay that solidarity tax as you say. Those who don't even have enough to cover the receipts to cover the minimum cost of life. If the trade unions have calculated that it is just over six thousand and 400 kuna, then below that level should not be taxed, especially by such a special solidarity tax. But let's let it go now, if we estimated that we were in a crisis in the middle of last year and finally admitted it and that's good, then we should have taken some other measures, and if we had already responded and intervened in the tax system then what the results of such interventions should be assessed. When you have a drop in production, when you have a drop in employment, when you have a rise in unemployment, when you have traffic and consumption, and you need to consider that in the structure of the social gross social product in Croatia there is a significant share of consumption and that is general and individual, then it was necessary to intervene in the tax system. So don't introduce such a tax tax on wages, increase the base of therefore a larger coverage and start taxing those incomes that are now not taxed, which actually have those who are more economically powerful, more powerful, that would also be in line with our Constitution. It should also release some of the commitments paid by the economy to give me a breath in a year that is difficult for business, so those who invest, who invest, and through investment or retain jobs or create new jobs should be stimulated. In other words, it may have been necessary to intervene in profit tax, so that it is not, that the profit tax in that year is not paid by those who invest or retain profits, do not pay the dividend. A portion of the 245 so-called “reduced ” was to be cut or abolished. non-taxable payments paid by the economy. This would then be something that would bring dynamics into the economy, which would increase economic growth and then indirectly increase employment and not only keep employment, but also increase revenues in the budget. When I said that a significant share of GDP is currently being spent, we have, in fact, reduced consumption, decreased purchasing power by reducing our production and, indirectly, reduced the social gross product. Yesterday we heard from Mr. Bohacek's Finance Committee that they calculated that this tax alone affected the GDP decline by 0.8%. What else was going on? Who put up with the burden of the crisis? Most employees. They cut salaries and especially in the real sector. First, their salaries were reduced, and then they went on unpaid vacations, and eventually they got fired. The burden was also borne by employers, because they kept a long level of employment while they could, so they worked on supplies, so they sent people to unpaid annual, paid and unpaid vacations, and then at the end of the day when they couldn't stand quits. That it's exactly saying January of this year when 18 thousand people were out of a job. So another thousand 200 in February, so the question of what's going to happen in the third month, lately our Employment Service hasn't been as up-to-date in publishing data as it used to be. So now that we see, in fact, all of us who were against the introduction of a tax like this, and also the government that sees that it has no effect on the introduction of such obligations, it would be fair to say that the decision was not good and should be abolished as soon as possible. It seems to me that in the last year, one of the European states introduced such a special tax, and after two months, it abolished it because it saw that it was actually doing more harm than good. It was also said here that the ridiculous argument was that the introduction of the rate, i.e. the special tax and the increase in the rate by one index and the point of VAT, actually saved the salaries and pensions paid out of the budget. That's really funny because if we go look, here's to not saying I'm speaking in my head, this is calculated by the analysis service of the Chamber of Commerce, it's been published, and so far no one has denied, that the average salary, among other things, is not only because it has been reduced to the volume of economic growth or economics but also because of the crisis tax, is on average reduced by 198 kuna. The 198 kuna per average employee last year is 300 million kuna less per month. They, for these 300 million kunas, were not paid monthly taxes or contributions, all of which were missing in the state budget. We've increased the rate by one VAT index point, and that's 9.5%. So many people could buy less. So this effect of a billion and 600 million and plus those, that percentage that brought the VAT rate actually, if we put it in real frames because most people would spend it through VAT, through pay, through tax contributions, it would go back to the state budget. And perhaps what was most important when this decision was made and this law did not reflect the consequences. Even now there's really no reason to say the situation is better and we're going to end it. Because when we brought it in, we had a drastic decline in GDP, we had a decline in production, we had a drop in employment, we had a huge indifference, we had a large number of unemployed. What do we have today? Same thing, GDP decline, consumption decline, living standards drop, employment decline. In two months. Almost 20,000 new unemployed. So neither was it logical to introduce it, and that is why it is wise to actually eliminate the whole specific tax on salaries, pensions and incomes from independent work. That in the next phase immediately, there is today a government meeting, perhaps at the next session, that the government proposes to also return the VAT rate to 22%, but also to consider and propose to introduce inter-steps for some other services and products. Especially after such a drastic collection of energy from other European countries. They've introduced a rate of even 5%, I think, given that we have 10% in between to make it realistic. These would then contribute to reducing the crisis and actually increasing the standard of living of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51166	Thank you. 3 corrections, 3 replicas. First correction, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51167	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Zgrebec who said HDZ uses different names for this tax. We don't use different names. Exactly the different names come from the SDP ranks. For us, there is only one name for this tax, which is a special tax introduced according to different categories of citizens, respecting the social situation, respecting the economic status of citizens. It's a special tax that's being imposed on certain deadlines, and here's these legal changes, and we're shortening that deadline. It is a special tax that has not been filled and filled with the state budget as you say in your amendments. It's about a billion and a half kuna. It is the revenues that were necessary and necessary at the time of the adoption of this tax on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51168	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51169	Well, my colleague Zgrebec said it's not true that this special tax saved salaries and pensions. That's incorrect. So I believe that this colleague Zgrebec knows that at the moment when unfortunately the budget couldn't be filled so well that it would settle all public finances, all public needs. That just from the union lines came a proposal to introduce a tax like this because they were aware they wouldn't get paid, that the pensioners wouldn't get pensions. So these unions were much more aware than the opposition who criticized it. And that's perfectly clear to you, this is just a public conversation. And this is the intervention part, the tax, and that's why it has a certain duration. And what the government did, so it's done it before, so why do you think it's bad? In fact, we should be commending, not criticizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51170	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am correcting the incorrect allegations, namely the representative said that it was not logical to pass this Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, which is really not true. At that time, in July of last year, it was important to bring that tax in order to stabilise public finances, i.e. they could finance both salaries and pensions and social benefits. That's true, but it doesn't make sense and it didn't make sense that in July when we talked about this tax that you were so pessimistic about everything that affected the reduction of consumption. If you spoke differently, I believe there would be no decline in consumption. And what I've already said today, which is the fact that in this time of crisis, the savings of citizens have grown. Therefore, but because of your pessimism, I am convinced and certain that there was a drop in consumption. Therefore, take care when you talk here in the Parliament about the situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51172	Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51173	Thank you. The objective state, not the psychological state of society, is bad and it's not about that. You can be psychologically hard now go buy a kilo of chocolate, but you don't have money, you won't be given it. But now I'm psychologically in the mood to get it, and do you have any money? I don't! So we have to be aware of the current situation. The biggest problem of this country is that we're on a boat that leaks into 50 holes and we catch the slightest holes, so we keep trying to shut it down, and we don't see which one's the biggest. The biggest hole is the global policy of this government that doesn't see that only opening new jobs can save this country, not make-up and piling to make it look as beautiful as we lose jobs. Unfortunately, at the annual unemployment level has covered all age groups, but it is alarming data for each government, for every mature government it is that, for example, in Croatia, here is a group of 25-35 years old in a year unemployment in that age group has increased by 61.7% Now I wonder what to do. Do you here talk about how psychological conditions are such that they see themselves as people who don't have a circle or don't have a job or start working on it to change it? So it seems to me like we're falling into a difficult one to say the opposite and we're walking around in this world, just getting lost in the fog, like the entire government is hallucinating. Well, he thinks their hallucinations are what other people see. And other people see that they can't go on like this. How do you move on? I'm sure you'll go like this. As far as taxes are concerned, Slavko Linic is right, taxes should be hit by those who have, not by those who do not have enough to survive anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51174	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51175	Well, I agree with you colleagues that there are no psychological reasons for a man to spend or not to spend when he's gone. And when you have incomes such that you can't meet 50% of the minimum needs and you have two children, and one of the parents doesn't work, and the other is the prospect that they'll be out of work soon, then he can't save or spend, he can't be in debt. Those in charge and bought an apartment now give it to them for sale because they can't pay their dues properly. There's no such thing as optimism, and there's no such message from Parliament, government, politics, anyone that you can make him spend if he doesn't have one. And we must finally say that our people live in poverty and that poverty will not come out quickly. But the way the government treats the state of the country is I really don't know what a man would say. It's shocking for you that we don't have an over-the-counter proposal that we would discuss here and that we would accept both employees and employers and politicians and all the layers of society. Because you can say it's gonna be even harder, we're gonna have to cut our wages. But tell people tomorrow they'll be, in two years, in five years. But like this. You speak for wages and pensions, and that will come to an end. Minister Schuker will no longer be in charge, so there won't be a salary or a pension. Then what are we gonna tell these people?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51176	Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51177	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Zgrebec, you mentioned that this tax was a crisis for the budget. Sure. The tax was imposed because the state of the budget was in crisis for sure. However, what was an actual crisis was in full swing when the tax was introduced. And what has the government done until then to reduce the costs and that of previous Sanader and this of President Kosor? Nothing seemed to happen. The production was already down. The same question arises as to what the government has done until then to keep this production and to address the problem of the decline in production. And at the end of the day, what's going on? It happens that the money in the budget has been reduced to the deficit. And instead of having anti-recession measures, politics brings and introduces a tax like this that needs to be saved by the deficit crisis. However, there is nothing to be done to increase consumption, nor to restrict the public sector. And that's why today we find that such taxes should not have been introduced and that both taxes should be abolished as well. This is what the SDP represents and why it believes that these taxes should not have been introduced. I'm only afraid that soon we'll have a crisis in the budget, but then I don't know what measures the government will take and who they'll be taking again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51178	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51179	You're telling your colleagues that with this hack, she caused more damage than good. And that's one undeniable fact. But it's not just with the harachus. Every time HDZ takes steps to improve citizens' lives, we are unfortunately closer to breaking and entering. And he's taking some measures that basically provide crumbs and at the same time all the taps are open where our money leaks. I'll just point out here yesterday we discussed the proposal of the Marine Fisheries Act where it leaves us annually because the government has not introduced ZERP, the Italians are giving us 350m euros per year in fish value. So, the government is looking for here, and we've seen it since the HDZ Club, so we don't clap the authorities. So, not only do I repeat to the government what is not useful but it is harmful. But that's not enough, it's more like we admire them. The crisis is always some other never them. And what exactly is the crisis? The crisis is unfortunately HDZ, a government that is drunk on its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51180	Replication response, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51181	So the government's function as an executive body of a single state is not just to fill the budget, it's not just redistribution through the budget of a part of the social product. And when we come to a lack of income, here we introduce a special salary tax, pensions practically income for those who work, for the incomes of those who work or who work, and now they're retired. However, if we also reduce the role of the Ministry of Finance only to filling the budget and redistributing the social product, then it should be said that it might be more effective to control it from a gray economy to tax evasion. There was a day published that only one routine control established, I say routinely and these are regular controls, determined 2 billion and 400 million kunas of unpaid liabilities. A few months ago, it was announced that the budget, i.e. to demand about 11 billion kunas of various public administrations. You know when it comes to the situation that the company owes 20, 30 million kuna, and we've come to over billions of kuna when it comes to the INA in which the state has a significant stake and share of ownership, then the question is asked, so let's say it doesn't charge or react in time, while at the same time to those who have 3,000 and one kuna of income is taxed on them additionally with 2% of taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51182	State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. All the time we've been discussing the justice of introduction and crisis tax and VAT hikes. The atmosphere that we had at the beginning of the year means that the bankruptcy of state finances, the state budget is difficult to introduce any new tax or increase the rate of tax at a time which, but the justification of that, I must say that the implementation of the state budget for last year is hard to introduce with 99.4%, that expenditure is 99.7%, that the deficit is still planned. It means that one stability and justification for the introduction of this tax, although I must say that a decision is difficult to impose a new tax or an increase in taxes, means one justification has proved good and means a good decision has been made after all. One answer to the esteemed representative Zgrebec. These 2 billion and 400 million, it's not one action, but it's the results of the supervision of the tax administration, which is a billion 900 and all of them over the year, means that it's still being stepped up to determine these irregularities, and I think it's getting smaller after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51184	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm quite sure you won't mind me saying that at the beginning of my debate I'll join in supporting...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51186	You don't need to be sure in advance ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51187	I know that you, Mr. Vice President, are one tolerated person and that you will certainly not mind what I will at first support the mayors of the Hvar municipalities and the mayor of Antu Sanader who asked to return the abolished ferry line to the island of Hvar, and now I will continue the debate. So we heard from this other side of the assembly today a rather interesting thesis, which is that consumption has fallen because we've been psychologically acting on citizens so that they spend less. Even now we at Brač are known as thrifty, but it doesn't matter that much now. That intonation is quite similar to that of one politician from the beginning of 2000 who said that citizens live better, but that they don't know it yet. And you know when it begins to use such an argument in the experience of the coalition government, then you usually lose the election. ... Mrs. Solic, may I continue? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: You can.]] So there's another philosophy that we've recently heard in one of the prime minister's statements, and she's about to say that this country needs reforms, but that no one wants to give up because when it comes to them, they don't want to give up. Now, from that sentence you get to make a lot of conclusions. First, the way of rule, so it turns out that the whole state becomes a voluntary society where people, certain groups, give up, unless they give up that it's theirs. It is the Government who must, of course, decide with the support of Parliament, or its ruling majority, which things are more important in this country and when there is no money where to single out more, where to single out less. That's why the government gets pluses or gets minuses, and it's obvious that the philosophy that the government should only get pluses prevailed on not wanting to blame anyone. And I must admit, in that sense, I understand the Prime Minister's sentence in Brodosplit when she said that the course does not determine the wind, but sails. It is not true, it determines the steering wheel, and there is obviously no steering wheel nor good steering wheel. Now, why doesn't anyone give up? In order for people to give up something that belongs to them at this point, they need to see a goal, why, what it leads to. Which is why we'd give up something, probably to make everyone in the country feel better tomorrow. If people from unions or other groups don't see it and don't want to give up, it's obvious they don't see that goal. Now it's not that they don't see it, but it seems to me that even the government doesn't see in which direction it should go and what the goal is. So we introduced crisis taxes in the 7th month when both economists and economic experts, but others who understand what is going to happen, who have studied what other countries have done, said that the trap of consumption will, in fact, cause the opposite effect, then it was heard that it was not true. Now you can also see by this government reaction after a certain number of months to withdraw that law, so that first part, although you should withdraw, of course, this second part of the crisis tax. It is evident that those who said that they were right and that it was not a psychological war so that people spend less so that less would fill the budget. People usually spend less when they have less. But in public, however, this crisis tax is not well received, it is quite clear. I avoid using the term harrassor in this exhibit, avoiding using it to avoid being accused of using Turkishism... He's a bully. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Kunst has informed us several times today what it means, it has wikipedia, it has a few more meanings. ... But that locket also provided personal security, that locket in the medieval Ottoman Empire, and this crisis that some called as I said they called it did not provide security, and that's an important difference. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So he was even worse than that tax, that's what I was gonna say. And so, colleagues and colleagues, as we have naturally had different names, which is, of course, allowed in the political struggle in the public, it wasn't some offensive word for a hack, I think that the best name for this crisis tax would be a crisis defeat because the government lost the battle with the crisis, and their ideas to just take the citizens, put their hand in the pocket has shown that there are no other ideas and therefore the citizens obviously don't live better, but they know and they don't live better than the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51188	... four replicas, but two more while I, while one colleague here spoke to me, picked up the tiles, and we did not register, so I ask the honest finder of these tiles to report which are other than those which, who have raised the tiles, which were registered by representatives of Borzan, Vidović, Šolić, Bodakoš, there were two others. [[Specially enabled.]] Well, you see that's honesty. Then there was, yes, and there was someone else. He wasn't? My colleague Antičević, weren't you an accident? Who's Kerum? What? Okay, Mr. Representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51189	Well, you've warned your colleague Bauk of a newspaper here that we heard today, except for this joy that the people showed according to this tax as he called it, which is that because of pessimism, citizens couldn't buy or spend it. So you see these 87 thousand 720 people who work less in Croatia today than they did when the tax was introduced, they could go to the store empty wallet but they're full of optimism and ask for bread and milk and come probably to the cash register and say we don't have any money because we're out of work because of the crisis tax, but we've got a lot of optimism, so give us that basket for free so we can go home and feed the kids. So instead of having these unemployed, these 87,000, 60,000 people who work and don't receive pay, they have no reason for pessimism, because according to the HDZ recipe in stores today can be bought with optimism. Cash, checks, cards and optimism.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51190	Replication response, Mr. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51191	Mr. Mršić, they say, well informed that the pessimists are actually well informed of the optimists, and I think that our citizens are well informed and that this is why they are pessimistic, but of course they have ways to become optimistic, and that will show in the elections whenever they are held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51192	Mrs. Representative Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51193	Well, here's my colleague Bauk, you mentioned that you do not want to use the word hacks, she is also quite annoying to colleagues from HDZ, and in fact it would probably be more appropriate, the most appropriate term would be hazezarina, because the tax crisis tax could be useful, or not this crisis tax, but every tax could be useful if it is invested in the right things, bring it in the right way and at the right time, but how this was all done in a way that made things worse in Croatia I don't see a really better expression than a haezarina as an ugly expression of memories of what HDZ did with this tax to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51194	We need to be a little bit more correct and not insult our colleagues. You cannot and cannot, you have no right to insult neither the Croatian Democratic Community nor any political party. It is an offensive way of speaking and should be avoided. Comrade Bauk, here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51195	I can, sir, here I would correct one incorrection, and that's what I think then I should add HSS-arina, HSS-arina, SDS-arina, and now I don't know that I don't insult minorities, that it would be too long, because it's too bad that only HDZ gets credit for that move, they have those coalition partners who, along with them, are responsible for that, so let me add and not be incorrect to the other parties of the coalition partners, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51196	Obviously this didn't work out for you. Hardly, but. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51197	I'm surprised by my colleague Bauk, so I'm going to say the thesis I was going to use in the debate, to elaborate it a little bit, I think that's clear. The HDZ does not withdraw this law because it has seen its error, because it has been persuaded by experts, scientists, etc. what they calculated. That's not the reason. It is crucial for colleagues and colleagues and citizens, it is crucial that in the next 2 months the HDZ government introduces a abolishing of the regression and Christmas goddess is equal to 600 million kunas and a reduction of so-called. Privilege pensions are about 7 billion kunas in which disabled, defense pensions are participated by 5 and a half billion, 15% lower, it's a billion and something kuna. A billion and 600 kuna will be replaced by a new burden on the citizens of this country and it is all a secret. Let's connect this story to what's called. The register of Croatian defenders, with this arson... With that story that's opened, things will be clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is not about any recognition of error, this is about creating a presumption of new accusations for the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51198	Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's listening to this morning's debate on my right, and I've come to the conclusion that the SDP has been trying to solidify itself today, and it's showing and acting out with those who today the truth is more difficult to live in this recession time. But, gentlemen of the SDP, let me remind you, this is falling into your water. If you wanted to be honest, then you in the city of Zagreb today, and in Zagreb lives a third of the Croatian people, in this recession time you would reduce or take down a 18% cut, I will only remind you that the town of Pakrac, which was destroyed in the Homeland War, has a 0% cut, and you SDP gentlemen in the city of Zagreb 18%. What would you call it? I'm not going to use the word you used for 2% of this tax to be introduced. Gentlemen of the SDP, you've been spreading pessimism all morning and telling the truth. You want to hide all the good measures that the Government has done for the Croatian people in this difficult situation. You want just one thing, you want power. And you showed your authority and your intentions towards the Croatian people from 2000 to 2003 when you really created an orphanage in Croatia, you humiliated many who created this Croatia. But you're trying to do it today. It's the same thing to bring unrest into that population, but it's not going to work. Don't think you'll bring in the tax, and that's what you're trying to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51200	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51201	But we will, you're trying, but we'll do it on your communiqué to introduce a tax. So you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51202	All right, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51203	Mr. Vice President, it would take me a little more time to answer everything. So first of all, as far as these cuts are concerned, here's where the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government told me that this year seven cities in which the HDZ in power introduced a cut, so transfer that communiqué to them freely. And you will not come to power in the City of Zagreb for the next 5 election cycles so don't try so hard anymore. If you have something to say to the City Administration, you have a local board of city districts called Bezovica, so get out of there and maybe one day you can make it. And by throwing it out of the bench in Zagreb, you won't win the election, which is very likely for you. And as for this whole thing you said that we're solidarity with those who live badly, that's true. It's the foundation of social democracy, you don't have to teach us social democracy. And you said something else, here's why I haven't been able to remember everything, but I don't doubt that your citizens received it quite well and that's why you raised your party's ratings with this step and I want you to continue further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51204	Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51205	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Bauk, he's in a hurry to the truth God doesn't know where, but the question of his or her ruling statement is not being spent because we in the SDP are talking about the crisis to sow pessimism etc., I think it's still, Mr. Bauk, one of the replacement themes. Surely, just as it is said today by the ruling ones, it was good and cheerful when the crisis tax was introduced, and also today it is also said that it is good when it is abolished. But in the meantime, a lot of heavy stuff was going on, so let's say 10 thousand trades were closed, 1152 stores. The question is, what are the reasons for this? Is this pessimism either a fall in purchasing power or the loss of people's desire to buy what is said not to be spent? Also, the question of money, or increased savings, is certainly because people are afraid of the crisis, or do not know what awaits them, and especially what new tax can occur. That's why I think we should acknowledge by the ruling mistake with the crisis tax, bring new actions, actions that the opposition offers, and I think that in these discussions there have already been a lot of them, especially from our club representative, and also take concrete steps to save the economy and improve the lives of citizens. Because only under these conditions will we be able to continue to exist anyone in power, but people expect something concrete to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51206	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51207	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as far as admitting a mistake is concerned, I'm quite certain, so this was a mistake, even though we can't agree on it. And the people say that they learn from mistakes, they learn from other people's mistakes, and they learn from others on their own, but they confess to error. You know when? It will be confessed just as all the mistakes of Eve Sanader are now being admitted. So once it is, when the conditions are created as it is said that something can be done then these mistakes will be admitted, and by the time you ask them who the Prime Minister was before Jadranka Kosor half of them would not be remembered, and half of them would talk bad except for four, five, so we're not going to get into that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51208	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51209	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, here's a chance we've had all morning to listen to one of SDP's plays, we could call it a Mexican soap, whatever you want, about the big concern for the social categories of this society. And it would all be convincing that this very structure that she discussed here today did not have the opportunity to be in power and show that they were socially sensitive to their time. You know, those 2 billion kunas that this government has now had to pay to civil servants and tenants precisely because you did not respect their material rights but made a decision, and later it was seen that you swore to the IMF and the World Bank that you would not respect them, and thus simply damaged this power that I had to compensate for by the basis of the litigation of that money. If it were that 2 billion, maybe this government wouldn't have to introduce this crisis tax. Maybe those two billion would be enough for her. But now that this government is abolishing that special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts, then there you are again rebelling. You're against it again, but why are you against it? Well, that's exactly why you're against it because this government is ending it. You'd be in favor of having even more of an intrusion because then you'd be showing that it's an even worse situation. That this power is no good that you should come to power as soon as possible. So you're simply twisting the weights as you fit at some point. But the fact is that this government, first of all, has proved to be responsible. And the responsibility has shown that what she said is that this is a tax that has a temporary character. She even abolished it six months ago. That means that by the legal deadline, 4% of what you were talking about today will be abolished. I expect it might be sooner. But the fact is that exactly 720 thousand employees and 190,000 pensioners you've been talking about here today will not have to pay that tax on July 1st, and so much will be their pensions and salaries. That's a fact. So since 1 July of this year, a special tax will not be paid by a million 295 thousand employees, it will not pay a million 60 thousand pensioners. If we turned that into some percentages then we would see that it's 90% of the employees and 90% of the pensioners won't have to pay any more taxes, as far as these two laws we're talking about today. But that doesn't interest you, and it doesn't matter. A special salary tax will be paid by those you were just saying today that they should be taken. So those who have higher incomes than 6 grand like you said that a union basket shows that it's one minimum survival even though you know well that depending on what union does that union basket, because unfortunately not even during your term, one rule is defined how this union basket is calculated, but each central one calculates itself, so there are different amounts, depending on who calculates. However, to remind ourselves of this Law on Special Taxation of Salaries, Pensions and Other Receipts, which was certainly intended to ease and which actually succeeded, to mitigate the reduction of planned revenues in the state budget. And I'll remind you that exactly and by the union, a proposal has come to introduce that tax to allow payment. So funding all those public needs from the budget to make it possible to pay and pay and pension people because they knew that unfortunately this tidal wave of global recession that started in the world and Europe also spilled into Croatia. And it was not possible to avoid these negative economic flows from the global financial markets, but only had to resort to such intervention measures. You also know how much money is collected. That over a billion and 676 million were collected on the basis of this tax, and that these funds were of great importance not to disrupt the dynamics of payouts, pensions, etc. all those public budget fees. I will also remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has carried out selective savings with full social sensitivity. It has not unilaterally intervened in any regulation governing social rights, and it has not abolished any material rights governed by a collective contract. In contrast, I'll remind you that you care very much about these poor workers and pensioners, that you unilaterally cut wages and abolished and disobeyed collective contracts, changed laws, reduced rights, etc. I'll remind you of the time you were in power. Then you didn't have this much social sensitivity to those categories. And later, as we heard, and we didn't know you were committed to the World Bank so you wouldn't respect the social and material rights of workers and pensioners. I believe we'll survive this year's recession leech, because you know me, and most of you sitting here, remember that we've survived many periodical economic and social turbulence and even in the earlier state, as well as in this one. And that it was never easy for us and it wasn't always easy. But if it were the same in any such situation as the on-call catastrophes who have always predicted the breakdowns, bankruptcy, the collapse of the state, I don't know what they're trying to do, somehow, to apologize to that category they're holding so that they can best support them in the election. And you'd like to normally get to power as soon as possible. But unfortunately, none of it. Because I think this story of yours is transparent citizens, I'd say even birds on the branch. So this fake concern about these social rights doesn't work anymore. I'd believe you if you weren't in power and you didn't have a chance to do what you're saying today. Then you'd be pretty convincing to me. And when you had the chance, then you did everything the opposite of that. And most of all, you've damaged workers at that time in their rights as regards legal rights, as regards material rights regarding pensions, etc. So I believe that we will survive this period of this difficult social problem too. But you don't need for nothing, you spread panic, you sow fear because there's no reason or need. You're going to have to wait for the election, and I think that citizens have read you well what your basic meaning and goal is to care so much for their social and other rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51210	Thank you. A few replicas. First Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a debate from distinguished counterpart Kunst, and I've been encouraged to recall events that took place in the Croatian public after the introduction of this tax. In fact, a large part of the Croatian public led by a clear opposition tried to lead the SDP, he tried to point out the unconstitutional adoption of the law. Even then, the President of the Republic has applied for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law. I must say that after a full debate involving almost all relevant institutions in Croatia, the Constitutional Court decided that this law was constitutionally established on the one hand, and it is very important that the objective set by the Government by the adoption of this law was primarily legitimate. So I'm going to give a few important allegations from that Constitutional Court decision that I think are very detailedly guessing at the essence of the law itself and its justification. In the first row, "The Constitutional Court has assessed that the law has a legitimate objective, which is to preserve the stability of the financial system under the conditions of the economic crisis and by acting on the revenue side of the state budget in a short time without which state measures would fail to carry out the Constitution of the established task". The second key allegation of the Constitutional Court states that the introduction of a special tax represents one of a number of measures of the economic policy of the Croatian government, which the government has taken to overcome the current economic crisis, and this repeatedly reduces salaries to officials and directors of public enterprises, reducing preferential pensions, a number of austerity measures at all levels, increasing VAT rates, etc. Furthermore, "The Constitutional Court has assessed that the law is in line with the constitutional principle of equality and justice and the principle to which everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with their economic opportunities, which is particularly relevant to emergency situations such as the one in which this law has been adopted" I therefore support what the Government has proposed because it was said in the very law that the law will be limited and within that time period the Government will make a decision to abolish this lower tax rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51212	Replication response, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51213	Well, you well noticed that this government passed it legitimately, that it did not adopt this law unilaterally, that none of the social or material rights had been abolished unilaterally, which was exactly what the SDP government had done at the time when they were taking care of workers and pensioners, so they immediately cut their salaries, so they did not immediately respect the collective contract. Later normally, this government was supposed to cash in two billion kunas because workers sued and won disputes. So it was a one-sided concern to reduce the rights of workers and pensioners so that they transferred workers who were in bankruptcy to the second tax class so that those poor people who had lost their jobs couldn't be the first to charge, but rather, if they were and when, which was never usually the case. So it was about this great concern of today's here heartwarming statements about these workers' rights so that it was a false idea that they should have for those people who forgot the power from 2000 to 2003 when they proved what she thought of workers and pensioners in a way that cut their rights pretty much. The question is what would they do now if they were in that position. The question was that this tax would be, it might be even worse, but now they're in a position to just criticise because unfortunately they've already proven their results.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51214	Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51215	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you just reminded us of these recent times of Croatian past when this country led SDP with its coalition partners. Obviously, it is not forgotten by the Croatian people, Croatian citizens or pensioners or teachers, school workers, health workers, police, the Croatian military, all those who have experienced these revolutionary changes precisely on their salaries, on their pensions coming SDP to power, and I do not believe that they will almost forget this very recent past and these events that have been, that Croatian citizens will bear these minimum tax burdens through special taxes here, which we are talking about today, and one we are ending to help the Croatian state overcome this not simply economic situation in Croatia, Europe, in the world. It will be much easier to forget and overcome this very event than the one from the time of the SDP from the beginning of 2000. Finally, I will also remind myself of what we experienced in local self-government units during that period in areas of special state concern where this concern was to be highlighted towards cities and municipalities by war-torn areas. You know how we've experienced aid and concern since then, the SDP government? In a way that the return of taxes to citizens went not as before today and after those years of government from the state budget, but from the items of cities and municipalities. Cities and municipalities have been returning taxes from their budgets to citizens. It happened two and three months later that city and municipal budgets are in complete blockade. Here is one indicator of how the SDP government particularly cared for both citizens and local self-government units in its time. It didn't happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51216	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's Mr. Kunst, my colleague Kunst actually encouraged me to confirm in one part of my replica that his right thinking and the conditions for which the law was passed, and all morning we hear and the opposition acts like it doesn't know it's a law that has its own temporary duration, which means until December 31st this year. Just as we must stress that the economic downturn has put new challenges ahead of public finances, and the public finances' duty is actually to redistribute, allocation and stabilise, with the government very well managed by changed conditions. Thus, the current situation can also be overcome and conditions for recovery and growth at least possibly social costs that actually understand and respect the most sensitive groups. We also heard through Mr Bačić's replica, and it is not a waste, and we stress that the total expenditures of the 2010 State budget are higher by 904 million kuna compared to the 2009 plan, as should be said that budget spending in 2010 has been reduced by a billion and 400 million compared to 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51218	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Kunst, you rightly reminded us of the time when the SDP ruled the state and abolished social rights, brought workers and all those employed in public services to a situation that was not durable, which later resulted in numerous court returns that later when HDZ came to power had to pay out of the state budget the HDZ government. Let me remind you, for education over a billion kunas, a billion kunas and 200 million kunas to school employees. You can wave your finger, but these are facts, you can't run from it. The second thing, you made it clear what your strategy would have been a year ago when the crisis started in Croatia, when your main strategist economic colleague Linic said that in public services, which means in hospitals, schools, customs, police, etc., there are 50,000 extra employees. That's what you said. You said you'd throw 50,000 people into the streets. These were your messages to solve the crisis in Croatia. Today's number of unemployed who have grown to 320 thousand which no one has disputed is the result of the crisis, but the economic crisis that has included Croatia as well. In your day there were 390,000 unemployed, 390, and the smallest, there were 420. Without a crisis, without any crisis, you had 390,000 unemployed. So what are we talking about? The second thing, the government was very sensitive because now that this first tax has been abolished, I would say out of 2%, only 380 thousand citizens will be covered by this 4% tax. So these are those who have received more than 6,000 kunas, so only 380 thousand of those who have received more than 6,000 kunas. So, it was quite a thought on this social part, and of course this measure of the government gave results because it was able to cover the part that was related to the payment of pensions, to the payment of salaries. So she introduced one measure that gave additional security to all employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51220	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51221	Thank you very much. Comrade Matušić, right, you're absolutely right, so you know when they cut salaries. So let's just say here's one detail that I just remembered, when the customs officers were on strike, I had a chance to lead the strike, and then the Minister of Finance sent the district, then the Minister of Finance sent the district to all the customs offices in Croatia because there was a lot of pressure from Slovenia because the trucks couldn't do the strike, open the borders let everyone in, then we intervened with the then Prime Ministers and the Prime Ministers of the State, so wait so you can't open the border, so that would be out of your mind, you know what you can do then let the Minister of Finance then pulled that circle that I still have, I'm saving for a memory, etc. So the general panic was when the workers rebelled, and now they're raising the workers to rebellion. How simple. Because you see how little it takes, and then you turn it all negatively, and while you were in power, it was a terrible panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51222	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for reminding us of 2003. I was a teacher and headmistress, and there was a lot of debt left among the educational staff unpaid, and there were 390,000 unemployed. You told your colleague Kunst that this special tax was instigated by the union itself, some union representatives, and all the time the opposition colleagues wanted to deliberately distort my words here when I wanted to point out that our citizens are aware of the situation in which this country is and they do not want to politicise this situation. They expect all of us to find a solution. One of the solutions was the introduction of a special tax, as it is now feeling right now that part of that tax should be abolished, and that will eliminate 90% of our citizens, so only 10 percent of those who have, who can pay that tax, will pay taxes there as of July 1st. And that's why I said that our citizens, ultimately, those who want this country well, understood the situation of introducing a crisis tax. Those were my words at correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51224	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51225	Well, my colleagues Ivanka, they didn't get you wrong, they got you right, but that was their game for the public, so all morning long there's been this one play to try to make a public appearance, they're big soul-care workers, pensioners, and these other guys, you see the son of a bitch who thinks you're looking forward to getting their taxes up. So the only thing I think is that we're supported by fellow Stazic, he keeps his finger like this all the time, so he's probably working, and the cast is still, I've made a little joke, and I believe he supports us and as far as the normal elimination of these 2% crisis taxes is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51226	Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51227	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Kunst, on the trail of your debate, but also previous discussions today, we could hear that the transparent ones who today propose the abolition of the Special Tax Act, which was introduced due to the prevailing financial and economic crisis with a limited duration. Well, I think it's before transparent that those who today are adept at caring for poor workers, and we know when they were in power that they introduced a law on work that had so many dissuaded these workers, turned them almost into slaves with no rights, downloaded many, many other rights that you are very well aware of and you know and remember these times, and I think they are so transparent that the workers will see through and never bring them to lead this country again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51228	Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51229	Thank you very much... Don't shut me down, we're almost there, so we're gonna take a break. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Here I agree with you, colleague Kunst, when you said in your debate that the SDP has been doing a show here in the assembly all morning, only you forgot to say they're very bad actors, but you're very bad at directing gentlemen from the SDP. That's how I'll confirm it. You see in the city of Zagreb now, at this time, when the recession is hard to live for, the SDP buys for 14 million car park and it drives the first class, I don't know maybe it will come to Brezovic because there are terrains there because the holes to the knees and spend the money of the citizens of Zagreb on their luxury, and wouldn't you remember to help the people in the city of Zagreb and to reduce the cut of 18% and at least 5%. However, you continue to act, but I think the people of Croatia will understand you and have already understood you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51230	And Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the fact that a colleague of mine mentioned a normal tax crisis, we can also call him a special and crisis tax and that tax our residents with a lot of understanding understood, as the Germans understood the introduction of a crisis tax and many others in Europe because the state is an employer, the state has to fulfil obligations towards health care, according to education, to the military and police, so to all and this government does. And that's why on the other hand we hear so many words against because they didn't do it. That's a fact. Now, you could have noticed a lot of times at the end there's an early election here, but before that, we have to do a blackout. Why the blackout? So people don't recognize that you're offered the same team that was from 2000 to 2003 who lived remarkablely unlike the people who received millions of euros, I believe not only for... but I believe that one day and I think the company... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's called the one who got them the lean trains, because they'll probably have a confession someday, and then we'll hear who lived well in this country, who lived badly, who can talk today on behalf of the poor, and he's blacked out millions and millions of euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51232	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51233	Well, colleague Markovanovic, I support you in everything, and I think I'm on the right track for my colleague Stazic to support us the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51234	And the last replica, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Kunst, in your debate, you said in fact that when these laws were passed, it was already said that they were of a temporary nature even though I would like to remind here today that we were actually already and then from the ranks of the SDP we could hear that once the tax is actually not going to be abolished. The fact is that the law, which is, of course, incorrect, today we see from the proposal of these laws that we are discussing, is the fact that these laws were passed under difficult conditions when they were to be stabilised, or when the priority was to stabilise public finances. Of course, it has been announced that the tax will be abolished when the conditions are met. Here, I'd say it shows the government's responsible behaviour on whose initiative it is today and debates the abolition of the lower rate of special tax. However, throughout the debate, so from the SDP club, we can see today that even this does not match the SDP, and what I would actually say at this point that they have only proved that this is another one of their most extraordinary policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51236	Thank you. I interrupt the debate, continue at 3pm with the debate of Ms. Tanja Vrbat, hoping that, as numerous HDZ deputies have shown the expectation that MP Nenad Stazic will support them. I hope that fellow Stazic you will fulfill the trust you have been given.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51237	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we continue our afternoon session work. It is now on the basis of the application for discussion of the distinguished colleague Tanja Vrbat. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This sounds amazing under the Statistical Probability Act, but I was also the first speaker yesterday after the afternoon break. Thank you. I welcome all present colleagues and fellow representatives and representatives of the government. Today, here is also the afternoon term for the immediate, partial abolition of these two laws that we are discussing unitedly on the abolition of a partial special wage tax, pensions from independent activity and other receipts. In other words, I'd call it a little crowbar. This has to be done urgently today in order to be abolished on July 1st. Sounds like a joke. These two laws were passed in the middle of last year as an anti-recession measure because the economic crisis did not fill the government's cash register with the expected dynamics. Of course, we can't be against abolishing this imposition today, even if it's partial, because from the very beginning, we've been fierce opponents of the imposition of these harmful measures. I guess half of the government's laws should be in force as long as the circumstances for which they were passed. Although we have already had a broad consensus with the adoption of these measures in opposition to the profession and citizens that these laws and the introduction of crisis taxes are one of the biggest mistakes for the Croatian economy that will not bring any good. But that's what I wanted to convince the government, and now that she's convinced herself in part and in my court, she's politically abolishing these harmful provisions. For no reason, the expert public warned that the introduction of these taxes would only briefly obtain a certain flow of funds into the state budget, and that it would then cause even bigger budget gaps, as it would significantly reduce VAT revenues due to overall pessimism and increasing consumer restraint. The lower rate of crisis tax is now being abolished and citizens have the right to know what motives and concrete laws are for this. If it is abolished because the measure was not good, then why so many months were taken directly from citizens' pockets, better said from the mouth of citizens. Is today's budget getting better? Is the crisis as close to the end as the Prime Minister wants to convince us? But unfortunately for her and our overall grief as the experts and the governor of the bank himself, Mr. Rohatinski tells us, that is not so, the crisis is not the end, and these people have proved to be much better prognosticators of our economic situation and acquaintances of our economic situation than the government itself. As I have already pointed out at the outset, it is very interesting to me how these laws are now passed by an emergency procedure but with a months-long delay in the moment of their entry into force, or their application. It has been applied since 1 July, which coincides with the right beginning and tourist season, which I find quite interesting. The revenues from tourism will likely compensate for the lack of tax revenues for the elimination of this small harrassor. Let's remind ourselves that these laws have been passed ad hoc overnight, and their partial suspension is now announced in advance for months, I guess that citizens are given enough time to prepare for some kind of positive shock from this government or it's just a matter of choosing a political moment on the recommendation of some spin doctor in Fascism victims' market. Perhaps it wants to achieve a positive effect so that citizens think that something has been abolished immediately today and that they start spending more immediately. Here's what I doubt it's going to happen because it's about small amounts. And we'll just see what will be the concrete effects. The Croatian government headed by Mrs Kosor acts as a medieval inquisition used by torture. Put the citizens in pain and then gradually give in or tighten as needed. So when there's no money, it's a little tight and when it finds some other income, it's a little off. In a normal and civilised world, responsible policies and responsible behaviouralists of the highest executive functions prior to the adoption of the law are well considered. They analyze and simulate the effects of the law. Experts' proposals are respected especially when laws are passed that directly affect the standard of all citizens. Unlike this, as the predecessor of our prime minister himself said, "Banana to the state" laws are passed ad hoc and recklessly, and that is because there is no consistent and thoughtful economic policy. Let's remember some other examples there were a lot of them, I'll say two here. Let us remember the introduction so that the abolition of one part of the Law on Trade or the Law on Expensive Expenses, which, by the way, ruined many small builders of ships, etc. There have been so many examples of what we are witnessing in this assembly. These crisis tax laws also had negative effects because net wages were reduced, citizens' purchasing power decreased and consumption itself was reduced, and so probably the effect of an unprotected VAT on unrealised consumption was far greater than the financial overflow of funds at the expense of the crisis tax, and not to mention the overall growth of pessimism that does not contribute to economic development, let alone employment. Well, I know so much about macroeconomics that I'm a political scientist and I've only had two or three economics in my life. These are some basics that are clear to everyone. I just want to say that today's suspension of these taxes in my court is very hypocritical of two aspects. The government has today, and today some colleagues who support the ruling coalition have said this is a tax of solidarity. As much as this tax is solidarity, it was evaluated by our citizens with 30,000 lawsuits before the Constitutional Court. However, another thing that is most hypocritical in my court in this whole story, which is when this little hack is abolished is forced much more income into the state budget as my colleagues have said before, so I will not further explain it in detail. By doing so, it will move more towards VAT by being solid to all citizens without distinction, rising into the sky or already rising into the sky the price of gas, oil, gasoline, other energy, so that VAT will be tanked in the national register, of course again from citizens' pockets directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51239	It is next for the debate, distinguished colleague Biljana Borzana. She's not losing her right to argue. A colleague of Milanka Opačić. She's gone, and she's losing her right to argue. I'm a colleague of Davor Huška's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a little bit. Although much is said today about amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, as well as the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, I will repeat those most important facts stemming from these legal amendments, which is why I, as well as members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, will support the adoption of both legislative proposals. Already in the original legislative proposal, the most vulnerable groups of citizens were protected because the special tax of 2% did not apply either to salaries or pensions or other receipts below 3,000 kuna per month, covering almost a million and a half taxpayers or about 550,000 workers and 870,000 pensioners. These legal proposals, which we are discussing today, will free 720,000 workers and 19,000 pensioners. About 300 thousand employees and about 34 thousand pensioners with an income of more than 6000 kuna per month will continue to pay a special tax at 4%, with a deadline of 31.12 this year. It follows that these tax burdens are tailored to the economic strength of citizens. One of the reasons for supporting this law is that it reduces the time limit of application of the legal norms that change from 31.12 to 1.7 this year, so the citizens of the special tax burden are relieved earlier. Regardless of the forecast from the opposition order for last year's adoption of the law, the law will last until the deadline, if not permanently. Finally, support for these legal changes as well as the basic law of last year and because of the positive opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia following the strong pressure of the SDP through constitutional lawsuits with only one and this political goal of creating an extremely negative psychological effect among the citizens of our country. Unfortunately, the SDP is still working on this plan as visible from today's debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51241	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have one replica reported. Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51242	Look, buddy, you're saying that the SDP was against the adoption of this law solely because of the creation of a negative psychological effect on the citizens of Croatia. I don't know how you don't understand, I really don't understand you. The tax that you pulled out of the citizens' pockets was taxed, and now that you've removed it, you have no excuse at all why you brought it in, why you brought it in at all. What did you do with that money? We haven't heard any arguments here. And look, you just can't be trusted, that's what this is about. You, when you fought for power in the election campaign, said you were against introducing any taxes. You've increased the VAT, and you've introduced this hack. Hebrang said if I lose the presidential election, I'm out of politics. Here he goes in politics. Ivanka Roksandić said this morning, here I read from the phonogram: "I know it bothers you, but the fact that the law was welcomed by the Croatian public." And after that, five calls and says she said something else. It's like she hasn't been filmed by cameras, like there's no phonogram, like it wasn't today. Okay, I may still understand when you cheat the public against pre-election promises because it's been three years, but you dare to cheat on him from three months ago as Hebrang, but also from a few hours ago as a Roxandic. And now you're surprised that people don't trust you. So how will they trust you, so who will trust you with any of this and your arguments that you give in defense of that law?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51243	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't say that the SDP was against the passing of this law just to create a bad psychological effect. You've counted a whole series of other reasons, but the fact is that after the law was passed, you've created the most bad psychological effect among our citizens and you're doing it today. These allegations you speak of fellow MPs will likely be an opportunity for them to manifest themselves. And about who cheated on the Croatian public, so citizens often have a chance to make a statement, they also said two and a half years ago, who they trusted, who they gave a voice to, who's running this country today, and who cheated on the Croatian public six and a half years ago, or in that term in 2000-2003. Here next year they will have the opportunity to give their opinion again, and they are the best judgment on who is cheating on the Croatian public and they have been estimating it very well lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51245	Thank you. Further to the debate, an esteemed colleague, Nada Cavlović Smiljanec, applied. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The introduction of haracs to salaries, pensions and benefits from other activities is one of the most harmful measures of the Government of Croatia and we have heard very much about it today from my colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. It appeared to be an anti-recession measure, and the application of the tax showed that it was a pro-recession measure. Harac reduced consumption, a new blow to the country's already poorer average standard, and that was not enough, and the VAT rate had to be increased, so it now stands at 23%, which resulted in a fall in personal consumption and a decline in trade and processing industry, etc. During 2009, 75 thousand workers were jobless, and only in the 3rd month of this year, about 1000 workers were also jobless. The guarantee fund for helping the economy is just a drop in the sea, which the government has done to get to the point from which recovery can be initiated. And today we could hear who's getting loans from that fund, again, not the ones who should. It is necessary to change fiscal policy because this is the burden of the crisis on those who are the poorest, on workers and pensioners, and the proof of it is this harrass, while on the other hand those Croatian citizens who are the richest on their assets, on capital gains, do not pay taxes at all on dividends. Their tax rate is 0%. So we come up with an absurd situation that income from wages, pensions and independent activities is taxed at an average rate of about 50%, and the richest pay nothing. It is essential that a fair redistribution of the tax burden, taxes should be paid according to the economic strength of every citizen, that is, for us, the constitutional category. The government of the Republic of Croatia should finally launch serious reforms and change economic policy. For years, we have increased consumption, not invested in sustainable development, or creating new values, and we have only funded consumption by borrowing. This is what the government is doing today and every new loan is shown as a great success of this government. The government is proud of it, which is amazing. The lack of active government policy has caused an increase in unemployment, and it is no longer possible to ignore the fact that we are uncompetitive, that we have high taxes and parafiscal burdens, and a high level of indifference, so that the outstanding obligations of legal and natural persons at the end of February amounted to more than 27.6 billion kuna, which is more than in the first month of this year and 8.6 billion kuna, respectively, than in February 2008. By defeating data, which is being taken by the government, except for the guarantee fund, we see nothing. Unsettled liabilities in the second month were 60 and over 65,000 persons employed by about 67,000 workers. What does that mean? That means those jobs are compromised. It's only a matter of time before some of those employees are out of jobs, and over the last year, as I said over 70,000 workers are out of their jobs. A reform and economic recovery programme needs to be implemented urgently. It's our necessity. First of all, I am thinking about reforming public administration, regional and regional self-government and administrations, restructuring of public enterprises that are mostly owned by the state, which receive huge funds from the state budget, where managers who do not receive high wages for nothing, while at the same time revealing corruption affairs in these companies. The Prime Minister says no one will give up anything. Well, that's not the answer. The government is responsible for leading this country, it is designing economic and economic policy. That the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made the necessary reforms in these 6 years of leading the Croatian state, that it has led a proactive policy, rather than acting subsequently, should not be debated here in the Harak Parliament today. Had it not been for various affairs, corruption in public procurement, robbery of Croatian property, the harrassor should not have been introduced either. It is therefore necessary to eliminate the rate immediately not only 2% but also 4%, because of this tax as I said no one had any benefit, the employers did not have a reduced labour price, because the tax is paid on net wages, the citizen further impoverished the tax, while at the same time causing a major decline in standards and personal consumption of citizens. In the end, the question arises what is this... In fact, from the introduction of harrassants to today, if the number of unemployed has increased, if 70 thousand workers are working today and are not getting paid, if indifference is increasing from month to month, so how is it that this hack is now being abolished? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what my colleagues were talking about. The reason is next. The increase in energy prices, above all gas, electricity also means higher VAT, means higher revenues to the state budget from value added tax. So there's the government... Showed as generous and abolished now a 2% hacker, while at the same time taking citizens out of their pockets far more because citizens will pay far bigger directors and it will cost them far more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And also the abolition of material rights, government officials and tenants, as well as public service employees, which is a matter of the day when it will be done, this government intends, what this government intends to do is show itself only the hypocrisy of this government about how socially sensitive it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51247	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51248	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the distinguished MP said that the government, that it introduced a special tax mostly to the most sensitive ones, and that the rich don't pay, which is really not true, because this Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts has freed all those who are truly socially endangered, so up to 3,000, and now proposes that up to 6 grand be untaxed. But it should also be said what the honourable representative will not say, which is that the law stipulates that taxes on salaries, pensions and other receipts of residents are paid on benefits paid to natural and legal persons on the basis of dividends and profit shares. I'm sorry, then that applies to those who are better paid, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51249	Thank you. Next, a colleague named Romana Jerkovic applied for the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the moment the crisis tax was introduced, we knew it was a measure that was meant to try to save the state budget,... be against that measure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The arguments against these measures coming from this side of the assembly were two key. The first is that such a measure will not achieve any positive result because the problems with filling the state budget are actually the result of the deep structural problems of the overall economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Another key reason was that we felt, were sure that additional non-selective burdens of the crisis were unfairly and unfairly transferred to those social layers that were the only real victims of recession, which are citizens, those are families who, with some average 5 thousand kunas, had to survive with daily fear for their own workplace, hoarding along with these unpaid bills, raising new food loans for their children, and all without a single bar of light at the end of the tunnel. The Prime Minister doesn't say anything about that light anymore. We are now facing a decision to abolish a crisis tax, and I would say before a decision that is not in itself, that is, to end a decision that has nothing in it but politics. When it was brought in it was politics, and today, when we end it, politics remains. What makes me think that's the case? Because it is abolished for the reason that the assessment by rulings has become too much of a burden for the government, that it weakens its position, that it weakens its popularity and has become aware that it has turned, by ruling it has become aware that this measure has turned a significant mood to the public, especially lately. We resented it as an opposition that by criticising the crisis tax, we showed a lack of responsibility for the current situation in society. On the contrary, however. Time has shown that we were quite right. In developed democracy, the responsibility of the ruling elite is based on 2 key principles. The first principle is that the right to manage social affairs must be subordinated to the interests of society as a whole, not to political parties or political parties currently in power. Another principle is that each ruling elite must be held accountable for its actions or inaction in a specific social situation. And just on the example of the crisis tax, it is clear that both these key principles have been violated. The ruling coalition's responsibility for the current situation is unquestionable. First of all, because all the measures it takes take take on the principle of the political party's interest rather than the interests of society as a whole. It seems to me that we agree on the need and necessity of consensus to overcome the crisis. But what's absurd, I think, if I'm wrong, correct me, is that we've never actually reached a consensus in the last two years on the assessment of the situation. About the situation we're in. And all the key parameters and economic trends indicated that things weren't going well, and I guess we had to agree on that a long time ago. And whether we're going to use terms of crisis, disaster, recession, the situation is serious about it we should have agreed on a long, long time ago. It seems to me that the consensus on overcoming the crisis couldn't and couldn't happen if we could never reach a consensus on how it really is. And we hear everything with a delay and a delay. I've heard for the first time today, ever since the crisis tax was passed, that it was actually meant to save the disaster of the state budget. That's what a colleague who sits in your ranks said. I wouldn't, so like my colleague Stazic just said, there's a phonogram, so we can listen to who said something. The arguments that arise when the depth of the crisis is reduced then it seems to me that fiscal character arguments are paid in principle, the salaries are not late, but if indeed the solution to all our problems is related to the greater or less resourcefulness of the finance minister then perhaps we have no problems. We must admit that, if anything else, the minister is resourceful in borrowing and in patching holes. To be clear, I don't think it's easy to be a finance minister today. Unfortunately, in the system as we've set up, it's never been easy. What is the problem is that this rhetoric in Croatian society continues to support the logic by which everyone, but everyone, can expect their acquired rights and continue that public spending can remain at the level it has been, and that the problems will somehow be solved on their own. So, a spiral of government debt and an increase in unemployment and indifference, etc., as if something was happening to someone else rather than to us. The reform of public administration and the preparation of projects for EU structural funds and reforms of the territorial-political structure of the Republic of Croatia and privatisation and the reorganisation of public enterprises and the activation of state assets are being delayed for another time. And the Croatian public rightfully asks, and for what time? Is it possible that we who sit here in the Parliament and those who decide Croatia's fate have absolutely nothing to say about it? Gentlemen, no one thinks there's a magic wand, no one has one. No one has a magic wand for the problems we face as a society, as a state. We don't have it in the SDP either, but we know how much it takes for Croatian society to get out of the crisis and what's most important is that everything that needs to go started yesterday. Not today, not tomorrow, not yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51251	Thank you very much. We first have a report of an alteration of the quote. Dear colleague Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the distinguished representative, Jerkovic, said that the crisis in Croatia is the result of deep structural changes, which is really not true. The crisis in Croatia is the result of the overrun of the global economic financial crisis in Croatia, to the Croatian economy because if it were true that you are saying that the crisis in Croatia alone is the result of deep structural problems then you should ask how is this also a crisis in other countries? There is a crisis in the United States, Germany, all European countries. So, Mrs. Jerkovic, then you're the only one who knows how to solve these structural problems. So the whole world doesn't know. The whole world is fighting this crisis, looking for the best solutions, but there are problems in all countries around the world. Therefore, do not say that the crisis is only in Croatia but everywhere else. And we need to use all our potentials to get out of this crisis as soon as possible. And what I said earlier this afternoon was optimism, and we talked about optimism yesterday at the Committee on Finance and Budget where the representatives of the HUP and other trade unions and the Chamber of crafts were all aware that through optimism we can get this country out of the crisis. Real optimism. I'll tell you something else. Speaking in this negative way, I have to tell you that this is not good, because as we speak about our country, we are still listening, and this is all affecting the financial capital that our Croatia really needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51253	Thank you, colleague. We have three reported replicas. My colleague Luke Denon first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51254	Dear colleagues, in your discussion, you mentioned that here is a vivid picture of even our debate at the Assembly today, which is absurd. We have also led in this assembly to absurd assessment of how we live in the Republic of Croatia. So some continue to convince us that in that Republic everything is honey and milk and that everything is good and they don't hear, of course, experts who are justifiably saying that this law was a bad law and that it shouldn't have been passed. Of course, it's annoying what the opposition also thinks, and it also confirms it. Well, then here's a lively argument that we've got an absurd law. Because when we introduced such a law, when we passed it, we saw in reason that the law was passed because of the prevailing influence of the global financial and economic crisis. So you'd think when we're changing that law now that we're somewhere out of that crisis, but somewhere, we're left with a big hack who doesn't confirm that we're getting out of the crisis. But you can see now that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making it a great protector. Because for more than half a year, it says here in an explanation why we are now abolishing this harrass, due to further protection of interest and care for the poorest and socially sensitive group of society. For further concern. So the time we had that law we didn't care about the poorest. And that confirms absurdity in this explanation of the adoption of this law. So something you can't because it's very difficult. I don't know why it's so hard to admit that one bad law has been passed and that law has caused negative consequences. It will be interesting, of course, to listen to the argument when the government rejects the law or amendment to the law, when we will probably ask the SDP club to abolish the 4% hack that has not yet recognized that we are coming out of the crisis, so it remains. It will be interesting to hear what argument it will be and how it will then be equal in the case of constitutional judges before the law and in solidarity then bear the burden of the crisis. An interesting debate awaits us only now. Obviously, if anything else to do with this advocacy of a group of citizens, it has already begun to think about the choices that will probably be before we all expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51255	Thank you, colleague Denona. Reply to the replica of colleague Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51256	Thank you very much. I don't think there's a better expression you've used, and that's absurd. Watch out for the citizens constantly serving some unreal optimism that collapses like a map tower. What optimism we are talking about when there are more houses, land dwellings due to public auctions. Up until 6 months ago, 555 real estate was auctioned, and last Friday the number grew to 736. The army of unemployed 317 thousand 625, so that's almost 55 thousand more than it did last year. Inequity reached a level almost from '99. A year, over. So we have the worst statistics in five years. It's not because I want it, it's not because the SDP club wants it. This is the result of a missed economic policy in the last six years. And that's reality. And that's not optimistic, that's the problem. That's what I agree with you about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51257	Thank you. A prominent colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, also applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51258	You're telling your colleagues that this policy comes down to patching holes. And that's true. But it's already one worn-out policy, like worn-out fabric. Because as soon as they patch up one hole like a worn-out fabric, another hole appears and there is no repair. This fabric worn out like this exhausted policy will change and should be changed in early elections. Instead of the government offering solutions, it is abundantly justified. She spent the entire term on excuses and not on offering a solution. And then there's different spins, delusions, lies. And of all the incompetent governments, the worst is a lying government. A government that is a government that is in constant conflict with facts and truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51259	The answer to my colleague's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51260	Thank you very much. My colleagues mention holes, leaks everywhere, rags and the situation is bad, but you can still see it's not for everyone. In this society in this country, it's not bad or catastrophic for everyone. And I'll tell you who he's not for and who this country has a special treatment for. It's the banks. Here you can see in real two months this year that they're doing better than last year. They made 10% more than last year. How could they not if the state allowed them to have interest rates? Look, it didn't go over in Serbia. It did not pass in Italy, but in Croatia it did. There is a link between the financial and real sectors in normal economies. But here in this country, there's another very powerful bond, and that's between the state and the banks. We know who's back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51261	And the third application by counterpart Sonja Simunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jerkovic you say today you have finally heard the truth for the first time, and that is that the hack was introduced to actually fill a hole in the state budget. I'm also glad that we heard this for the first time today and so it's been charged with this harass of about a billion and 700 million kuna from citizens. At the same time, we have another piece of information that says that corruption and crime have been taken from the state budget by about 12 billion kuna. So, crime in state-owned enterprises, state-owned companies where they work and who are led by the people that this government has set up with its coalition partners, they've taken their criminal behavior out of the state budget of 12 billion kuna, which is a sum that every hole in the state budget can settle very nicely. And at the same time, they take from the citizens every day to patch up the same hole. How hypocritical, how sick, how incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51263	Thank you. As far as this data is concerned, about 12 billion is a good thing to deliver it to Bajic because you say you do. Do we have a reply to the replica? We don't. If we don't, then there's a further debate. Dear colleague Davorko Vidovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51264	Here is an agreement from my colleague, Jerkovic, I would say a good introduction and what I would like to say a few words about, and what seems important, more important to me than to find out and that we all agree on it together and support this bill. We'll back him up, we won't mind, but we certainly won't mind the elimination of the palitative solutions that were made last year, here we heard exclusively in the intention to patch up large budget gaps. When I say in the wars, then it's quite certain that they'll have to approach the removal of the harrassors and the wages, this 4% on salaries and pensions of more than 6,000 kunas. But also another detail that is being released, that finally one large group of people, which are our pensioners, are the only ones who know for certain that their pensions are not going to grow in this year, and that, according to my deep court, an unconstitutional decision is going to be banned by the Law on the implementation of the state budget or by one law of the lower order, the harmonisation of pensions with salaries and the cost of life, that they will also be abolished. When it is done, it would be good to do so now, but much more important issues are those which are now the principles of counterpart Jerkovic. You know, as I believe, and many responsible representatives, regardless of the side of the hall they sit in, I ask often times whether we are obliged to open up the citizens' perspective and hope and space for real optimism or whether we are obliged to sow what is here is referred to as a black pessimistic view of further development of things, etc. It's simply not about choosing whether we're going to be optimistic or be pessimistic. It is not a matter of choice, this is about whether we are as a state and as a society and as able to generate, to create ideas about which it is possible to create a general, social, national consensus that has no doubt about necessity if it wants to emerge from such deep problems as Croatian society, state, our economy as a whole. No country that has faced serious problems in the past, and our problems are very deep, they're not just financial, they're not just economic, they're problems that are far deeper, I would say, I would enter all the social life pores, morals and social capital and optimism. These issues in these countries that have faced this, I recall the current problem of the economy and economic and social development of Ireland, so Finland, which is today, was the prime minister there two days ago, one of the most prosperous countries in Europe and the world. These problems could be addressed thanks to a serious social consensus on issues that are of general national importance. I think that Croatia, by absorbing the 20th century, by achieving one of the greatest or most important goals that we had as a society and as a people, the creation and defence of a national state, in the 21st century, in fact for 10 years or I have to say something less, 6 or 7, we find ourselves in a situation that we don't really know where we're going. We don't know where we're going, what kind of society we want to be and live in, what we want to kill our children. The reason for this is not a lack of mind, is not lacking even in the goodwill of a large part of the people, is not in the lack of a profession that can answer any individual question. He's hiding, the problem's hiding somewhere else. Believe that the very dissatisfaction that goes towards the authorities and the opposition and the political and political subfrastructure as a whole without a foundation and that is well recognised by the citizens. I call on you, and I call on ministers in the Croatian Government, I regret that there are none here, none of the government members, to open an official website of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where one of the most qualitative strategic documents I have ever read, and for the past few months I have been very intensively studying these strategic documents, visions, etc. It is a document published by the government called the 2006-2013 Strategic Framework for Development. This strategic framework is a good basis and a basis with a very modern and clear way of counting visions, goals, values, principles around which it is not difficult to establish consensus. This is the material that has been sent to Europe and which i publicly praise us for, it is the material that was made in the cabinet of the Government of Ivo Sanader, which is tragic, which is none of these principles, none of these principles are incorporated in any way into the concrete political decisions and laws that we in this country are making. It's a cynical and tragic situation and a result that's just amazing, as if it's just the opposite of everything that's in that document as the value around which you're supposed to find, exactly the opposite of all of this is happening. None of these principles apply. So that, if I could say that we can spread optimism, optimism could be expanded if we had a government that is responsible and credible and consistent in realising and achieving what is declared to be some kind of goal. What I'm talking about, this document that I'm talking about, it's not even mentioned, it's not even spoken of. No one in Croatia is talking about the development of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, no one is talking about social cohesion, no one is talking about any important aspect of the development of the modern European societies, but exactly the opposite of the entire philosophy of this government is being brought down exclusively to the adoption of a fully-insulated unnetted ad hoc measure that repairs the image and tries to maintain and maintain power at all costs, so as long as it lasts, and the price should be as it pleases. Faced with the situation that we have public spending, that we have expenditures that far exceed income, the government could, in theoretical, formal logical terms, define itself only by two principles, or reduce those expenditures to the level to which its incomes are or increase revenues. It may be true and a third approach which would mean reducing the costs as many as possible, but to make sure that this cost reduction goes to increase the entry or revenue side of the budget and to ensure that the red lightbulb is already running. So once again, when we want to establish a social consensus, we have to have a credible government. This government I'm afraid of the way it is, the way it worked, it doesn't have that credibility anymore. And this isn't any political call. Citizens should be given a re-elected choice of those who can eventually secure this consensus without which we cannot get out of the crisis. If HDZ gets back to us, let them be the ones who will be the feathers and who will come up with this programme that will be able to create a national consensus. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that this is certainly not possible in this situation and every day without a choice means a waste of time for the country and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51265	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, colleague Neda Klaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a fellow MP incorrectly claiming that peacemakers this year won't grow. Mr. Vidovic, you know very well that there are no delays in pension payments, just as you know that acquired rights to pensioners are not touched. The level of pensions that has been made since the start of the pension reform is constantly monitored. Financial consolidation is also expected, i.e. systematic improvement in the material status of future beneficiaries of pensions, which have been accounted for in respect of salaries from the entire working life since 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51267	Thank you. A further debate follows, and a distinguished colleague, Dragutin Lesar, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. By following the debate today and reading the argument given by the government under this law, I managed to convince myself, with the help of the ruling coalition's representatives, that 2 million 670,000 citizens of this country of 1.7 will not officially be named by a special tax, because their monthly income is from 0 to 6 thousand kuna. Obviously, the 6000 limit is set as the limit above which those who receive the amount are rich, so we tax them with a special tax to get Croatia out of the crisis. In particular, it worries that in this figure of 2 million 670 thousand, as many as a million 290 thousand employees who earn their salary and total income under those 6 thousand, with the fact that I have to repeat that the cost of a four-member family on a basket was the need in March this year of 6 thousand 600 kuna. Perhaps for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this particular information could have been the threshold of the new proposal for taxation, but apparently monitoring the cost of living and the movement of prices of services and goods on the market was not an argument, nor were the elements in the preparation of this law. It has been announced, in fact, decided on an increase in gas prices, for a long time announced and delayed, and announced again, and now it will obviously be an increase in electricity prices and part of other utility services. At the same time since this tax was introduced, and the government is very angry if it is called a harachum, so we really have to call it haezarina, public enterprises, so not all state-owned enterprises, but public-owned companies only paid 94 million kuna for sponsoring sports clubs. That money was supposed to end up in the state budget if they didn't need it, the government could pull it if it wanted to, but 94 million is obviously the amount the government didn't need. So it might be good to hear today, I'm sorry there is no minister, but perhaps the Secretary of State can answer me two very important questions. For a long time, we have been talking about 245 paratax duties on employers. I didn't believe it, but today I did get a register of those, a list of these paratax obligations by employers. So does the government want to accept a proposal to release all these paratax obligations by a special law like this special law in the next 90 days? I think it would be this three-month break in the release of liabilities that are not most of the revenues of the state budget but what we call part of the state administration, but most of all something that just follows the state. Secondly, the data on the 123 billion kuna debt of citizens in the context of the dismissal of an increasing number of workers and the mercilessness of banks which, according to credit obligations, charge no more of the guarantees, because neither the guarantees have any more wages than by selling these people's houses. Of course, I'm going to get an answer that the relationship between the users and the lender is not a government matter, but I remind you that the crisis and the beginning of the crisis in the United States was on the real estate market and that it was also on the stock market. And in Croatia, the crisis, under quotes of "real crisis", when the apartments and houses of the workers who have been fired can cause a social crisis. Not because someone would call on her, not because someone wants her, but because people just can't anymore. The government could, if it wanted to, intervene with the last law and at the obligations of citizens to the providers of municipal services, operators, energy suppliers and if nothing else were to end or release citizens from the obligations of these tight interest rates. Without amending the law, it is not possible because no one under current regulations can release interest. But the government could propose such a law. Let's say, until the crisis is over, there is no accounting of tight interest on the tax debts of entrepreneurs or on the obligations of citizens outside the state, the parastate, local, regional self-government and municipal services. I don't know about the amount of interest collected, you probably at the Ministry of Finance know that, so it would be interesting to see how many hundreds of millions in that way you could leave to the citizens. There are a number of other options, but proposing such moves is not smart in the Croatian Parliament because they are always or forgotten, so it is said you did not propose, or ignore. But I'm going to end this debate with my appeal to Mr. Secretary of State to check or send his people from the IRS to check whether exactly what I said the other day on the Anti-Corruption National Council that in a part of the state's 100 % state-owned company after the government's decision on the restriction of management salaries, which is said to be not to pay more than x thousand kuna, that decision is played in a way that the payments are accounted for by management contracts, that the amount is paid for by contributions to pension, health and all others, to pay the amount of the government's decision, and the difference remains as a debt of the firm under the management contract. I'm not playing inspector or spy. You at the Ministry of Finance can do that check in two and three hours. I'm not aiming, and I'm not saying it's done in a company where Minister Schuker is the chairman of the Supervisory Board, as he thought the other day, no. Check these allegations, check whether the management of public enterprises is playing the government's decision, among other things, in such a way. Because if that's true and you find that, then two messages. When the second time the government makes a decision, then it is written that it must not be accounted for and paid or the government's decision should have said all the manager's contract annexes and the pay cut to 16 thousand or 17 as much as it is. But that's a moral question now. The issue of management behaviour that corresponds to the Government, not the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51269	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary, Secretary of State, here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's just a quick answer. If calculated, contributions must be paid. So it's the same as paying the salary. But we'll also check if you have any examples of any company, but we'll check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51271	I'll whisper that in your ear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51272	All right, then you two whisper a little later, and the line came from a distinguished colleague named Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51273	Comrade Lesar, I agree with you that you have most likely accurately calculated these 2 million 670 that a thousand up or down, dear God however, the people who will be based on this bill of law, I will shorten the story of freed haracha. About, or it'll be easier to breathe. But it's astounding, at least to me, or to absurdity, that's why we do it when we introduce such a law and now we delete it. Therefore, if it is well written and I am well-read and well understood for the sake of further protection of interest and care for the poorest and socially sensitive group of companies that bear the most the burden of the economic crisis as well as for the additional incentive of consumption which seeks to boost the economic development of the Republic of Croatia and to protect jobs by this proposed law, the provision of 2% is put out of force. That's the argument. But look, if we wanted the government if she wanted that social economic crisis and encouraged economic development and job protection, then what did she do on August 1, 2008, when we passed that law of 2%? So we didn't purposely want to encourage economic development and protect jobs. I don't think it makes any sense. It's absurd. But if that's how these 2% will now encourage how the government thinks and economic development and protect jobs. Then why don't we cancel the 4%? But as it's so important and if it's so quick to do it, why don't we do it tomorrow by emergency procedure, but if anything else is at least from one of the next, not from one. Seven, why are we waiting? Here's what it says about the absurdity of such decisions, about the indifferences that make this government make to make decisions just like that, because it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51274	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51275	A colleague of Denon exactly what you're quoting right now, I'll do it again. So "The reasons for the adoption of this law are that the socially endangered and the poorest don't pay", and these are 2 million 670,000. But something else if you've noticed what's missing from the law's reasoning. The charge of the tax revenue budget is so large that this tax no longer needs to be. I expected such a sentence in an explanation. So, the government didn't even look at the revenue side of the budget either in this part or in the other half of last year, so let's say I could understand that from some other sources, budget revenue has so much increased or in line with the plan, so now this tax is no longer needed. It's the other way around. The charge of the budget is weaker than planned and expected weaker, and this is interpreted as a social measure. Let us then accept the fact that social measures and future measures must cover 2 million 670,000 citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51276	Thank you. Next up for discussion, distinguished colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The crisis tax essentially didn't get the financial effect. He did raise money, but the effect was contrary to him. It was a harmful pressure on such small wages. In fact, spending decreased, budget revenue decreased, budget revenue dropped was much higher than the collection of salaries by this crisis tax. The government's work and times of crisis should not be cut, but rather, the introduction of a solution to exit from the crisis should start new processes rather than cutting, because in this way only the weak economy has been burdened and the exhausted citizens are exhausted anyway. I think it is clear that during the past period that has been marked by major corruption and resignations, the government has actually not worked in an overall programme with concrete measures to overcome the crisis. Unfortunately, the message was to wait for the situation to just improve, because the crisis is outside, and there is any measure, any of our economic policies unfortunately have no impact. The pattern of overcoming crisis economic and social issues was, in fact, some kind of palitative action with of course new responsibilities and further sales. All of this has contributed to today’s situation. Today, we heard from colleagues that all the analyses showed that the additional decline in GDP is 0.8% and that the new tax always leads to a decline in GDP. Likewise, when the crisis was introduced, we had actually been in the past, and we were on this side of the SDP, in fact, in our actions, and we advocated that the state would go into solving and combating the crisis. It is mentioned today and the deficit and unfortunately that deficit he goes on to pay interest on public debt. However, the deficit should be proactive. We must also be aware that the state needs to use internal reserves and these are essentially public system reforms. And something else our citizens now additionally burdens price hikes, energy prices rise. And as we've heard today, we're not repeating an increase in the price of oil derivatives, they've eaten the whole crisis tax. So at first, I said that this crisis tax did not contribute to any positive financial outcome. From this crisis, a colleague and colleagues can only carry out knowledge, work and responsibility. But this government obviously can't do that. This government is doing a palitative override, this government is doing ad hoc measures. However, this government should be aware that this country is not a hospice, that it should work in another way for the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51278	Thank you. The debates are further followed, and a distinguished colleague, Karolina Leaković, has applied. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say, at the outset, that today's debate on the abolition of 2% of the special salary tax, pensions and other benefits, as well as the receipts of independent activity and other receipts should not actually have come, because this particular tax, according to my deep conviction, should not have been introduced. The current prime minister when she began her mandate and very often today announces or talks about belt tightening, talks about painful cuts, talks about saving, talks about anti-corruption struggle. However, none of this, in particular none of the long-term development policy for the prosperity of Croatian citizens and citizens, have we seen this period of its chairmanship with the Government. And I'm sure with regrets that it won't happen in months to come. I would like to say that the Government has made too little effort towards my court to verify, before the introduction of this charge, or to carry out certain research that would show the effects of the introduction of this particular tax, and that it would then surely know that the introduction of this tax suffers from a number of shortcomings and that the consequences of such an unthinkable or ad hoc tax policy are harmful both in short and in the long term. I will not, of course, repeat all that my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP today have said against this decision to introduce a special tax because I also believe that this tax is unfair and that no government of a regulated social state can in this way lead economic policy, so that it cannot lead an economic and development policy by applying these fire measures so that the state register does not remain empty. ... very clearly, I believe that Croatia, that our society and Croatian citizens are not in any laboratory, that our citizens and citizens do not want to participate in any experiments, and every few days now and on a weekly basis, such experiments are being conducted by this government and its prime minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, by proposing this law, or by abolishing the 2% rate in some way, the government is actually expecting citizens and citizens to raise the national economy to a higher level by spending these funds, which it has recently imposed on them. So, respected citizens and citizens, not only should the government take first, but then return what she took from you, but ask you to spend what she gave you back now. In a way, he orders you to do what and how you will dispose of your money. We miss it, actually, the way I see it, just so the prime minister tells us all where we're going to sell it in and in whose possession we're going to spend the money we've earned. In some ways, we are suggested not to put it in a sock and save it for the dark days, but to run and hurry to the nearest store and to choose to spend it because we are buying to the Prime Minister and her government another few months of mandate. In those months, however, the government will not, plans to do anything to begin, and of course it has already been late to start implementing reforms, in the pension system, for example, in health, in social policy, in agriculture or in the economy in general. As we can see these days, the government will do nothing to ensure compliance with the provisions on the payment of regresses, gifts for children and Christmases for employees of state and public services. The government will also do nothing to bring pensions into line with the cost of living, as counterpart Vidovic has already said, in Article 1 paragraph 2 of this law, it is determined that the suspension of pension harmonisation under the Pension Insurance Act remains in force, i.e. it is implemented from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010. It is precisely the provision that is being warned by representatives of pensioners' associations, and it is these problems over the government's demands that employees in state and public services not be paid a regress, a gift for children and Christmases these days are being warned by union representatives. Does this mean when it comes to a specific case, state and public service employees, that our doctors, teachers, officials, university professors, scientists, that they are all citizens of second order in Croatia, that they do not need an annual vacation, that their children are not entitled to a gift, that they are a part of one, as it is often heard unfortunately in the public, the parasitic structures, that we do not need public and public services, that we do not need public education, that we do not need public health and that education and treatment in Croatia can only be made by those who have money. Representatives of pension societies also warn of the fact that it has accumulated gas, that there will be a collection of postal services, heating, electricity and other directors, which further impoverished our citizens living on pensions because it is still in place and when we change and if we amend this law, it will suspend pension coordination with the cost of living, and by the end of this year. So the government doesn't run economic policy, it doesn't run any development policy, it first takes back the pompous return, and it represents a great success. It is amazing that the government is asking people who live on their work and on their pensions on a daily basis to give up. It became almost a mantra of Prime Minister Kosor, not to say an order like she recently said. I conclude that this government and its prime minister are not successful in managing the state, they are not capable of it. They have no real legitimacy, but most importantly they have no vision of Croatia's development. HDZ and government are buying months until the elections, with money from citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51280	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. Dear colleague Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51281	Well, an esteemed colleague in a number of incorrect allegations, I'm just going to make this last statement, says HDZ and the government are buying what's not true. We've been listening here all day to take care of workers, people and so on. I think the SDP could help the state budget to tell each other finely who took a $33 million bribe and fill the Croatian budget with these millions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51282	Comrade Gordan Maras, it's your turn to discuss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here at the beginning of my debate I would like to return about 7 months in the past year, in July when we passed this law and when in this same home 82 representatives of the ruling coalition, mostly HDZ because in that coalition the largest number, voted to introduce a hack, a crisis tax, to take people out of their salaries 2 or 4%, depending on how high their salaries are. It happened only seven months ago. A situation which was already quite critical of the Croatian economy at the time, but also of a situation that had not already offered Croatian citizens any perspective. 7 months later, these same MPs now explain to us that at that time there was a particularly guided concern for poor citizens, because look at the wonders of around 575 thousand people do not tax this law by employed or 870,000 pensioners. It means we take care of the poor who earn less than 3,000 kunas. And now seven months later we recognize each other's truth to take care of the poorest socially sensitive group again, but not just those up to three but those up to six thousand kunas, so gentlemen you've jumped into your own mouth. They admitted that with 6 thousand kunas, a four-member family cannot survive in Croatia, especially when unemployment is like this and that you have already taken the poorest in Croatia to settle your costs. So now these people have not been very rich in these seven months, but in the end, you've come to the truth and you've seen that people can't live with that money, and you've made that move to further poverty them. In July, Prime Minister Kosor made one of the first moves made by the budget rebalancing and the crisis tax to Croatian citizens by the end of the year for over a billion kuna, and this year planned 3 and a half billion kuna with an increase in VAT and with these rates, and I would say the only concrete move that the prime minister made towards the economy, towards the citizens and according to their standard. Everything else, all the other moves, not that they didn't give any results, but they didn't. We also see these measures that the government has launched in recent months, they have experienced a fiasco, Governor Rohatinski says there is no confidence in co-operation with this government, that he simply does not want to assist in further destroying the Croatian economy and deepening the recession. That's not an opposition. That's not what people say, someone's going to say politicizing, so they're talking against HDZ. That's not what experts say, that's what the governor who proved himself to be and who eventually had a lot of praise from HDZ. Well then we believe we can, you can trust the governor now as you have trusted him over the past years, and he orders you gentlemen to deepen the recession, no structural reform, no shifts regarding the Croatian economy. What I want to especially emphasize, your laws not only are experiments, they are, because the experiment can be good. Your laws are a bad experiment, gentlemen, and that a bad experiment shows results. At the end of the year GDP decline of 5.8%, 320 thousand unemployed, exports dropped 16%, personal consumption 10%, wages did not grow for the first time in 15 years, trade dropped 15%, industrial production 8.5%. It was all partly contributed by this law. And who's going to take responsibility for that story now? Will someone say that we were wrong, we failed to do what we should have done, we took money from Croatian citizens and deepened the recession. Unfortunately, today we do not have any government representatives here to hear criticisms that Croatian MPs are transferring from Croatian citizens, which is that this law has spurred recession, unemployment... Croatian citizens, destroyed consumption, and what is the most important consumer optimism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia today, citizens not only have no money, but also those who are afraid of the government's policy do not want to spend, and that is why Croatian citizens and Croatian MPs from the opposition are looking for new elections, because of their return to optimism. Gentlemen in HDZ, you can't get that optimism back, you're forcing this country into an ever-increasing, larger glib of recession. In late July 2009, when this law was passed, counterpart Vesna Pusic rightly asked Minister Suker if this law could be changed relatively quickly, but tomorrow it is August 1st and should only start to apply with one day of postponement. The minister said there's no problem. Now the legitimate question is, what makes the opposite path much harder to do? Why are we waiting three months for the citizens to get their money back, so they can take off their taxes? Which makes it so much more complicated than taking money from Croatian citizens. The answer is very simple, and that's only for one simple reason, and that's because this government doesn't have concrete measures, it only goes to spin. She's sending the story here now we've freed you from certain expenses, but not today, in three, four months. Never mind, you'll wait. Today in Croatia, we do not discuss how to hire people. We are discussing whether a girl or a man got tanned on the tourist video, we are not talking about how to start a Croatian economy today, but we are talking about whether someone said they saw the defence register or not. So the topics that are being placed, and I would say that in my opinion and the point and way of doing this government, push attention in the other direction, and what's most important, don't solve it. And another old one, of course, is important, and the biggest panic is when Prime Minister Kosor falls 10% of the popularity, and then we're worried. But gentlemen, you must be aware that this policy will come to Croatian citizens very soon, to an election where you will face the results you do not have, unfortunately 3, not 3 but a pardon now 7, 8 years since HDZ has been in power the results that have been defeated for Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy. What I would like to say and what is offered as the only alternative, but indeed the only alternative at this time is new elections, changes in government, and thus Croatia's launch in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51284	Comrade Marin Jurjevic, the next one came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51285	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's today we've been talking all day about this subject, there's been a lot of mention of psychology, and how as Parliament's representatives we're affecting the psychological profile of the nation, and I'm wondering, actually at this point it seems to me in some way that we have a society on the one hand, and on the other hand we have a government that in a strange way separates itself from that society and looks at it when... The psychological profile of that group called the Government then I'd say it's a group of amazing people who open doors here and there to see if the storm stopped, and these are the social processes that happen and wait to stop by themselves, and if they try to make something wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So their condition is certainly one state of tension, tension, and I wouldn't be happy in their skin, which doesn't mean that we as citizens should actually put up with it too long. That's why I'm a supporter of new choices because I don't think the government sees what everyone sees. We've been fighting here before whether there's been a crisis, it's not a crisis, so there were wise discussions, in the quotes "wise" about whether it's a recession or a crisis. But therefore, society records a decline in exports, a decline in GDP, a decline in consumption, an increase in unemployment, an increase in liquidity, a huge external debt, so that each new debt is celebrated as a national success, as a victory for the European Championship or something like that. Then it came to us that we are becoming somewhat suspicious, suspicious of those who should invest in Croatia, and these investments have been halved. So it's a condition that's really a strange state where some still prove that it's not what we see that's not true but that there's some other truth. The truth is always one thing, and the fact is that this is an experiment with these taxes and the introduction of new special taxes that here I see HDZ representatives themselves call themselves crisis taxes even though he never called himself that. So using this syntagma in a roundabout way, they admit and talk about a crisis that is not just something that, by the law of the combined containers, has been spilled, and, behold, wonders, from America to this crypt, otherwise Croatia, has flooded us like a tsunami, and as the tsunamis have come, so it will go. Our biggest tsunami is just like this rule of Croatia. You don't know if it's worse when it comes to you or when it's gone. When he comes, he floods you, when he leaves, he makes a desolation. It's a shame at all times. But what's worse, then, is that this example, looking at methodologically in some way, what does the government do? So she's really dealing with the method of trying and making mistakes, so it occurred to you, let's just say, sitting in doubt and being surprised and seeing that negative processes are going on, say, either decided or agreed to try these taxes, and we'll see what happens to a patient called society, or citizens. The patient's in a crisis, he's barely breathing, he's moaning, they say, yeah, it's not good, but he's gonna pull those taxes, so now we're pulling them back. But you see, it's really behavioral behavior from some movies that are usually comedy, but here it's more like the tragedy of some crazy scientists who produce and do strange experiments in their laboratories usually on mice or what I know about, and here they're working on the whole society. This experimenting on society, on citizens, has led us to a situation where it is really not easy after all to take over that power, and it will have to be taken over from those who will take responsibility to try to fix this situation. In all of this, the normal thing is that it's not just coincidences, and there are fat intentions. The fact is that in this situation, the government is acting as a typical right-wing government in Croatia. To weigh capital, if she didn't want to introduce taxes, this was what counterpart Linic was talking about today, which is the difference. It's not that there are no taxes, it's that the question of whom are they and whom are they directed towards? To those who don't, but there are many, or those who have, but there are few. This government has decided to take away those who have many, but who do not, so it will gather as an equal amount rather than take away those who have, but not many. You see, we think differently here. So, you've never accepted a dividend tax, you didn't want to admit that de facto is one of the biggest crimes in the world that depends on work, that one of the biggest criminals is not paying the wages for the work done. When we suggested that it be a crime, you didn't accept it. This protected one situation that no one protects anymore, especially in developed capitalism. So the government has shown what they think who should pay for these irresponsible policies. They're the ones who have a hard time, the ones who are the hardest. So then there goes irresponsible politics, first try some law and see what happens. It's like trying drugs on underdeveloped parts of the world, or when you're eating sick, and there's a fibreal place to take him to the doctor, you catch two bats, you rip off one mouse's tail, you cook it up, you drink it up, it'll pass. The hell he's gonna drink, he's gonna die. So today there's been a lot of talk about it. That's exactly what this was all about, and this is just one illustrative, tragic but very white example of one behavior that is not acceptable to us, and I assure you not even for most citizens. That's why this government has to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51286	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51287	A fellow government experimenting with the fate of its own citizens? As in the '90s, she played and gambled on the painful property of her fathers and grandfathers who had earned it for decades by re-emergence to power by playing with the fate of their own citizens. Never again has the law been withdrawn, nor have the laws ever fallen before the Constitutional Court as mature pears. So much for competence and so much for this government's determination. You're talking about how the government is afraid, how it doesn't come to her mind, because alas, God free, to hit the capital gains tax and the rich. And the dead cold refuses our legal proposal to sanction non-payments as a felony. Because the government says it wouldn't remethyl the idyll and the literal explanation is that frequent amendments to the Penal Code endanger legal certainty. How much truth seems to be stupid but how much truth is in it, more than you'd like more than the government would have wanted to say. Legal security. Whose legal certainty? Those who get rich on the back of people who have earned their salary fairly but it does not go into the horizon and interest of this authority. Let them go to court, the government says. They wouldn't change the Penal Code, they wouldn't pay taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51288	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of my colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51289	Well, the worst thing that can happen to one society is that inflation not only comes to money, but to inflation of laws that no longer mean anything. Everything there is too much, and in practice there is no application or exceed that experience correlation, does not correspond to it becoming insignificant. We're going to break into a kind of unaccounted for by overproduction of laws that don't apply to reality, that don't regulate anything. And we'll get in the form of lawlessness. Here comes the issue of the functioning of the judiciary, where we come up with all the basic problems. When we talk about our citizen's psychological profile, he's first of all obsessed with living in a corrupt society, and then in that corrupt society, it gets harder and worse every day. That's why calling here for the psychological moment of those citizens, I think it's a very slippery terrain. And I warn all of us expensive politicians that we are carrying a large part of responsibility and in the way we speak in this House and that there are just some ideological conflicts, political conflicts or something else. Much of the ideology disappears remains naked interests. This society is burdened with being robbed and we need to take off that stigma and we'll take off if the robbers end up where they end up in every fair society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51290	And another application for the replica of my colleague Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51291	Tell your colleague Jurjevic about how the government is experimenting on its citizens. Because there's no vision, no solution, no course, so try this now, now that. Look, it's bad. Well, then implement a crisis tax law, so when he sees that it doesn't have any effect. You say when they see the citizens whine, that the citizens are moaning, then it's going to change the law. See, that's how Mengele experimented on people. But this is even worse. The government does not notice, or HDZ, that citizens are whining and moaning. The HDZ thinks the citizens are looking forward to it. And that's exactly what counterpart Roksandic said, the fact that the law was welcomed by the Croatian public. They not only, so watch out Mengels, at least he was aware that he was torturing people while changing the color of their eyes, and these people think that the citizens are looking forward to it. It's one cruelty squared, it's an experiment with pleasure that you're looking at the one you're experimenting on to suffer and you're still declaring that he's glad.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51292	Everyone has the right to debate both the replica and the statement of attitude, but I think we need to take care of what we compare to. Because by comparing government to how it was, ours is with Mengele I think it's beneath all experiments. My colleague Jurjevic, you wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51293	I don't want his lawyer now, but he was talking about something else. It's been said here today that there really are a lot of portals, how there was general joy when these laws were passed. In fact, the people regretted that only two were brought, not 10 when they were brought. The hell. The normal thing is that the condition is different, so every blind man sees it, so let's not run from the truth. It's the best thing not to solve a situation. So we will very quickly come up with an answer to questions about violence in society, juvenile delinquency, family disintegration, the disintegration of the structure of society, social cleavage, isolation, malpractice, lonely crowds as much as you will if we look openly at problems in front of us. We may have a chance to find answers by closing our eyes. It's here to talk about some kind of talk about commie today or I don't know yours. ...the machine here is used to defend the indefensible. Listen, we're not gonna come up with a solution. The whole message is look the truth in the eye, only when you see the truth can you change something. And so far, you live in a world of deception, but they've seen a lot of people, so I guess that'll work out in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51294	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51295	Mr. Vice President. So, with this replica, Stazic injured his Rules of Procedure, Articles 209 and 210. In fact, he keeps going back to one fact that I didn't say and he might have had it that way. He said I proved HDZ was looking forward to it. We obviously weren't at the same session. I think it hurt the Rules of Procedure because my colleague Jurjevic didn't even talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51296	A fellow Stazic injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51297	Infringement of Rules of Procedure and the same Articles 209 and 210. I've replicated my colleagues, Jurević. I can take whatever I want in the replica. And speaking of you, I quoted from the phonogram what you said, and you said, "The implementation of this law provided the money and there was paid. I know it bothers you, but the fact is that the law was welcomed by the Croatian public." That's what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51298	Let's move on with the debate. You're up, buddy Bernard. He's gone. Well, then, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51299	Mr. Vice President. 8 months after the decision to introduce two special taxes. And let's try to evaluate those 8 months first from the aspect of the Croatian government. It is the first move of the Croatian government under Mrs Kosor's chairmanship. We can estimate that it was brought into panic because of the decline in the income of the state budget, that it was passed without quality estimates and that it arrived overnight at an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. We can also estimate that it was applied within three days, without the preparation of citizens who had to pay the tax without implementing acts, so to be honest with this law, the final proposal for a law on special income tax on self-employed activities was a correction of errors from the 7th month. And most importantly, it was a ruthless tax attack on the poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia, on workers and pensioners and those who, with their salaries and pensions, cannot provide basic provisions or basic needs for the survival of a four-member family. Now we're wondering what the effects are these eight months. And what can we conclude? First of all, the effect of this is the damage to the state budget and the greater minuses than the pluses. Larger minuses for the reason that the introduction of the crisis tax for the result had a 15% decline in consumption that consumption automatically meant a lower VAT, which consumption meant no pay, which the consumption for the result was laid off by people, and these are far less payments and contributions from pension and health insurance contributions. So, the damage to the budget. And today's government decisions on new measures show that the rate of non-payment of companies and companies in the Republic of Croatia and basic tax obligations has also increased. Basic tax obligations. All this is a damage to this law directly to the state budget and this is the reason for a lower income to the state budget. Also, as damage, we can list 318 thousand and 500 unemployed, meaning a huge jump in these 8 months of the number of unemployed, resulting in less consumption, in the real sector, the layoff of people who simply ended up at the office, so we don't have any income from taxes and contributions, so there's no income from the usual pay taxes. But the truth, and 75 thousand unpaid salaries or messy salaries again, it's a shame for those workers who work and don't get paid. So, we've done damage to employees who have lost their jobs, work and do not get paid, and again we're producing damage to the state budget. And of course, after those eight months, the Croatian government has become aware that further prolonging such a situation with such bill proposals will not have any different effects but will speed up the negative effects. And that's why the government decided to withdraw. She wrote a little roughly and estimated that there were 3 to 6 thousand people at risk and a group of citizens had to give up. She said it would take two and a half months for the citizens to adjust to the tax imposed on them. But she did confess and estimate that she should give it up. I don't want to go any further on the government. I'll turn to the Croatian Parliament now. So I wonder if you, as Parliamentarians, asked yourself when we decided to introduce this tax if we were aware of what we were doing. Were we aware that the problems of the crisis would not be resolved by these taxes, that further borrowing would be necessary. And the result is that we've come to almost 50% of gross national income with new debts and new debts we're too much spending that I can't service the taxpayers started to cover. Budget deficits are growing. We were all aware of that in the 7th month, and we knew this couldn't be a rescue, but again, by making decisions, we turned to the citizens who lived from their work to take the money. Do we feel part of the responsibility for that? Do we feel that we Parliamentarians are also on the stage of shame because we are constantly taking citizens, and there are no effects. There's been an increase in the crisis, everything that's happened before. Are we aware that in these eight months these same citizens have less salaries, no salaries, no salaries paid, higher energy costs, they have and I would say stopped payments of harmonisation of pensions and that we are not talking about a reduction of salaries to state and public officials. We did all of this in 8 months, but again we had the courage in the Croatian Parliament to make a decision to take citizens with this extra tax. Yes, and that's why I think it's our fault at the Croatian Parliament. The government can make a mistake, and the government may have a wrong proposal, but it's obvious that we have to think about it. Are we also as well as Croatian parliamentary representatives aware that this is not a controversy between the ruling opposition, that all the measuring experts said this was wrong. Will you be of the employers, will you be of the governor, will you be of the most senior associate and advisor of the Prime Minister? Everyone makes a mistake, a mistake, a mistake. They all point to it, all of them saying that the deepening of the crisis was due to this tax. If that's the case, then I'm asking you if today, when we decide this again, we can say that, it's a mistake, to pass the law by which we will end our mistake, by which we will clearly say not 2% today, but also 4%. Let's cancel it now at 1.5. It doesn't take us two and a half months because it didn't take us two and a half days to get in. At 1.5, it's something that would mean our responsibility. It would mean that regardless of what the government is reluctant to admit its mistake, we are the ones who have to listen to the messages of the citizens, the messages of the experts. So let's try to hear from each other, so let's try to break this tax that won't bring you anything, but now, after this law, we're going to charge 300,000 people with a crisis tax. Are you aware of what as parliamentary representatives... We're trying to transfer the burden of the crisis to 300,000 people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some pensioners and most employees. What gives us the right to choose a group of 360 thousand, where there's neither equality nor solidarity, where there's justice. And do we ask ourselves as Parliamentarians when we read that the British introduced an extra rate on the dividend why we didn't want to. Do we wonder when Germany said we'll take money from the banks, and that the banks have raised their profits in this year there's no profit tax and interest on banks that are irrationally high? As Parliamentarians, do we wonder why we punish 360 thousand people, based on what, out of 6 grand, which means 6 grand? What's the criterion? The average salary? A basketball? Well, I'm based on what. That's what we have to worry about, and that's why, as politicians and as parliamentary representatives, we can't be proud of this kind of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51300	Thank you. We have three replicas and two corrections. The first one was answered by counterpart Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51301	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to correct Mr. Linic's inaccuracies who say this is an attack on the poor. Mr. Linic, I know that you in the SDP really want to show that this is the case, but we all know together that this is really a tax that was introduced to fill the country's budget, which is why the lack of money is due to the global crisis. I don't know why we want to show all the time that it's just the government's fault. Well, dear colleague, back in 2001, 2002, 2003, so all you're saying today is you did it right then, and today you want to tell the public again how you're fighting for that little man, how necessary all of this is what you're talking about. Well, you've put a burden on that little man of your age exactly what you're talking about today. I'd have a lot more to mention and compare to this speech of yours, but of course I don't have time. I'll do that in a second chance anyway. Let's not show ourselves like that. It's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51302	Thank you. Let's correct the allegations, and then for the replica a little second plate. He's a colleague of Markovanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's nice to be a populist, but it should be admitted that at the time of this tax, it was certainly not a mistake. So he contributed to this tax on the stability of the financial system and with the possibility that when it is possible to solve differently is dealt with differently, and that is now that. But I can tell you again why, in your time there, everything, all the payments from 2003, everything you did in 2003, let it be paid in 2004, 2005, that you introduced a tax on bribes at that time, I think you would charge the cashier's cashier, not just for fire trucks, but for trains and all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51304	Thank you. We have three replicas, distinguished colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51305	You see, colleague, everything you've pointed out cannot be defended by arguments, but by a great view of the past. It's the government that runs this country in a car that doesn't have front lights, only has a mirror. You were talking about the responsibility of the Prime Minister to face the truth. Prime Minister Kosor should face the truth, but so far she has addressed the nation only with smiling phrases, in general... She never went out in front of the people, in front of the nation, and she said so far we've done it, and that, that was bad, that was good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're going to do point one, we're going to do point two, three, and we're going to count. Just general places and phrases. This is how that Mandarin language says the situation is what it is and the government does everything. So who is that speech for, please? So just scrambling, never cleaning bills. But how? How do you expect that this government, headed by the prime minister, to face the truth, when it came to smudge and cover-up, when for years it produces false defenders, when in this last affair, the registry affair, when it matters who said something and not what is behind it, to reveal the truth of who the false defenders are, when the sophisticated programmes and technology service of the Maestro affair is in the register affair. It's a picture of Croatia. And how do you expect that authority to face the truth? If you faced the truth, you would face your own ruin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51306	Replication response, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51307	My colleague Ingrid, the government is a government, has the right to make mistakes, but I will turn to us again. If the Parliament were different... You'd be wrong less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we're afraid to ask what part of our responsibility is. What's part of our responsibility? Well, these aren't the great teachings we're talking about today. My men, are you aware of 35 we're coming to 50% of our duty? 50% central government debt, 50% guarantee. So we've dealt with the crisis with the lack of money through loans, not the crisis tax, not the crisis tax. We in the Parliament are to blame for this law. We brought them in, and that's what I want to point out all the time. The government may be wrong, but the Croatian Parliament has always been recognizable that he knew something to talk about. We do not, the conflict between the ruling coalition and the opposition, ruling not to allow the government to touch. Try to see what we can do a few times. And I'm sure we'll find more justice then. I am convinced that all of you believe that banks should have paid interest taxes, that dividends had to be burdened, but we heard no time uninterrupted from Minister Shuker, it's not time. To Great Britain without delay. For Germany without delay. To Austria without delay. Parliaments have made decisions, we don't. We don't. And I say again there's no good in our midst, we haven't taken the burden of responsibility, we can't swallow all the proposals even though we feel that's not the way it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51308	Next replica, colleague Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51309	You spoke to your colleague Linic here about how time was actually spent to solve the crisis, so let's remember in mid-2008 the first warning that the crisis in Croatia is there. Not because it's spilled out of the world, but because it stems from the structure of the Croatian economy and inaction, but nothing to change that structure. The public sector is emerging and it is suffocating the flat sector. Speaking of which, the first time something started to work. In February 2009, when the budget was already adopted, we are talking about 10 anti-recession measures that none of which produced any results. The only measure, budget rebalance, the first budget rebalance that has reduced the over-inflated revenue side to as many real frameworks as possible. And then comes the new government, the 7th month, the prime minister's saying we won't have any more problems getting under the carpet we'll go with the first, the second and the third rebalancing, if we need more, and what did these rebalancings bring? Nothing at all. Savings on the team, says we'll drink only water, cut phone costs and use of official cars. Well, that's something that's normal, which even in the most perspective of times should be done. And then the second rebalancing goes to the profit side. We're introducing new taxes whose consequence is only here in 2 months this year, not to mention last year, 20 grand of new unemployed. And you know why it won't apply since 01.05, so it's just as fast as it used to be? Because there's an art here. 2. that says you need a rulebook to cancel tax payments. So that rule will be passed for 30 days, and 30 more days will be followed, and here we are seven months. And two, three more months, we're going to pick up some change for the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51310	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51311	Yeah, yeah. I remember the controversies, the very fierce quarrel, the primitive, so at least I think, with Shucker when we were here two years ago having a very unpleasant argument and a noise. When I warned him about the non-payment of public companies, about the increasing obligations towards the state, the non-taxation, yes. But two years ago it was all denied, then I was rude, rude. We also remember very well that we wanted to change and relieve the work. Dissolve it with a health contribution that should be relocated to incomes and I'd say capital taxes. It was meant to be moved, to reduce health contributions, to reduce the price of gross labour, not to touch net wages, so that workers do not stay because of work because of overpriced gross work is getting away from employees. We've proposed all of this. I know we're ridiculed, we're stupid, we're illiterate, we're unprofessional, we don't know, and interestingly today they say that, from employers, from unions, from experts, from macro-economyists. Interesting! Government advisors, that everything is in this House, everything. Just see, out of the political interests we don't want to hear each other we don't want to debate seriously, we don't even want to send a warning to the government. You don't have to accept the proposal, try to see it. Why are you delaying? Two years ago no one wanted to admit that it was a crisis, so then we had time to go on a change in contributions, to change in taxes. So Shuker tells us, that's what we need, but crisis isn't the time. Two years ago when our first proposals were not a crisis. It is Parliament's work, it is Parliament's work, to mock the opposition. Not each other's hearing, not helping the government prepare the country for the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51312	And the third replica, colleague Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51313	Now here's a colleague of Linic's. Following your basic presentation, HDZ representatives Lucic and Markovanovic have corrected you, asking you questions. Since they had neither moral nor intellectual courage to stand up with a replica so that they could hear questions asked and the answers I stood up with a replica to read to you what they were correcting for you and what they said so that you could answer me in line with them. Markovanovic, though, won't hear your answer because he left the assembly. He dares not stand up with a replica, he dares not hear an answer. Lucic said: "Why do you claim this is an attack on the poor? This is the tax introduced to fulfill the budget. Tax due to the global crisis. Why do we blame the government?" And then a strange sentence which I do not understand, but I quote it, "You have done all this which you are talking about today." I don't know what that's supposed to mean, but you'll get a chance to answer that. And Markovanovic said, "Why did you let all the payments be paid in 2003?" It's clumsy, but it's Markovanovic's style. And then another sentence, "You should have introduced a bribe tax, so you would have filled the register." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51314	Replication response, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51315	We live today, 320,000 unemployed, 75 thousand unpaid salaries, and the working hours and 27.6 billion unpaid liabilities that states are making to the economy that they make to the state and each other. In times like these, I don't allow myself to discuss the past. Therefore, those who do not want to talk about today's time, about solving, about how to offer citizens a way out of all this will return to the past. Obviously, Partizans and Ustashas are no longer interesting, and for HDZ MPs always remain interesting in 2003. So let them try to explain to the citizens how they will solve the problem. As for Markovanovic and his stories of bribery and crime, he is only one of those who speak what the HDZ Minister Mr Karamarko says. Therefore, it is common. Hold on to the thief 'cause then you don't see any problems. Therefore, I will talk to those who need to deal with the fight against crime, and I will also differ with my colleagues. It's their right to keep screaming at the thief all the time. Maybe that's what they're doing to get someone dirty, but they don't need to be burdened. It's all part of a political story, but a clear message. You can yell as much as you want me to be a thief, but you won't steal my knowledge, you won't silence my strength of speech and my strength of speech. And I'll always point out who's to blame. This law is our fault in Parliament, less of a government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51316	Next is the debate, dear colleague of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51317	I don't like the Equidistan, I always like the individual guilt. I don't accept my colleague Linic. I do not accept because you have not only forced us into the paradox, but also to the absurd, that when we discussed the adoption of these laws we have warned you of a whole series of negative consequences of the law, and we have prayed to God that we should be wrong. We wanted to be wrong because we had scientific verifications because we had the right budgets because we knew that with a few months behind us we could use the experience of the United States, Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Spain that had found that the crisis had arisen in the financial sector so that it could be overcome so that it could either be preserved or if it was possible to repair and improve the purchasing power of the population. By increasing sales taxes, taxation of salaries and personal incomes, the purchasing power of the population has been reduced, and instead of anti-recession measures, you have taken pro-recession measures. We warned you about all this together. That's what we were talking about. And we were wondering why we were taking these measures and we said that we were bringing these measures less because the state authorities aren't doing their job, because the girls' money is everywhere. I'll just warn you and remind you of some aspects of money leaks in the education system. You have watched calmly as your minister illegally disintegrated state property in the form of textbooks ranging from 250 to 300 million kuna. That's what we talked about in the papers, that's what we talked about in the Parliament, that's what we were texting the government. And the minister has donated state property for which we are in the House, so that he can reach an agreement on a new tranche of textbooks that he has achieved at 420 million kunas against the law. But you have not yet made sure that the minister pays for his mistake, not to compensate for the damage, but not to repeat it again. You didn't do anything. The biggest contributor to anti-recession measures is the budget for education and science, which has taken down one billion kunas in two rebalances. In relatively uneducated Croatia at a time when science and specialization alone can contribute to competitiveness and can actually create some kind of niche, some kind of space for their own breakthrough on world markets. We take most of the money away from science and education. So we're poorly educated and science is the only development force in the 21st century and we're cutting the branch on which we're sitting. We're actually cutting and disabling the only lever of a possible rescue, because we're in crisis anyway, and we're already in recession. And that's where we do exactly one counterproductive measure. I don't know how many times I have to repeat to this Parliament that the Ministry of Education led by Minister Strugar left no debt of billions and 200 million kuna, but a debt agreed with trade unions and a debt agreed with employees of not-full 54 million kuna. If paid in the first quarter of 2004. From 1. 4th, that debt has grown to a debt of 260 million kuna. And you're saying today that you've paid a billion and 200 million kuna. And it doesn't occur to you to call anyone responsible, which within six years has increased the loss by 25 times, because the girls are money. And besides, Mrs. Roksandic calculated that debt to be significantly lower. Therefore, I would ask Mrs. Roksandić to educate her colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives on how much this actual debt is, and that it is not at all a billion and 200 million in education. We have had a hard time getting into some European integration processes. It's the same in science. And we've entered what's called "Framework Program 7" so the Framework Programme seven that has, for scientific research, or has had, approximately 50 billion euros. And to get into that programme for each programme, the question is how many nations are being allocated funds to carry out the sequence of programmes, subsidized by the programme. So after a programme was signed with the European Commission on the financing of some projects in Croatia, the project was signed equally, i.e. a contract with the Croatian government on how much the Croatian government will co-finance and subsidise the same project. In order for the minister to reach the 3rd month of this year due to lack of funds, the Minister of Science has made a solution that abolishs Croatia's subsidisation of European programmes implemented in Croatia with 31. 7. In part, the minister refuses to co-operate with European projects, leading the minister to miraculously reach Croatia very hard to reach some news. Since Roman law, there has been a principle that decisions and legal solutions are not made with internal, therefore, retroactive validity. So, the minister brings the Ministry of Science to Croatia has not yet reached that principle. The minister makes a decision not to pay in 3rd month 2010 to decide not to pay from 7th month 2009. He admits that he remained in debt to the European implementation projects in 2009 and is actually embarrassing us in Europe. This is how we function and with such a way of functioning on the one hand in public or state-owned enterprises at all that we don't talk about girls being money and that was therefore the reason for these holes to be patched up. And even today, the debates of 300 years old in Europe have not reached Croatia about what is the nation's wealth. That it is not the wealth of the nation's rich state budget but that the wealth of the nation are rich citizens and that the state is as strong as its social cohesion is strong. You have failed to bring or accept our proposal to tax the profits of capital or dividends that are otherwise taxed at the highest rates in the world because it is a profit from labour and there has leaked the money with which we have been able to patch up any of these budget gaps. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, surely guilt lies in this home, lies on the authority which the Government may project and may actually produce, but it becomes a factical political programme only then and only when we accept it and verify it in the Croatian Parliament or better said when you accept it most of the time in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why it seems to me that you need to be aware of your own responsibilities, you need to think about it, and now you're almost gone. We only hope that by eliminating this pace, you will be equally kind to our amendment or our proposal when we propose to abolish those other rates. But it would be good to learn some lessons from past mistakes so we don't repeat them again in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51318	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished colleague Daniel Mondekar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51319	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We should not have had this item in the agenda because the voice of reason was heard, the profession was heard, and the budget money was not scattered, we should not have introduced this tax. In 2007, I will go back a little bit in history, only to the mandate of the technical government, when Parliament was already disbanded by the government of Ivo Sanader was literally handing out over half a billion kuna in a few days walking around Croatia. Also, thousands of people have been employed in the state administration these days through various competitions in different ministries. The first time Mr. Rohatinski warned and said that it should not be done, that there might be problems. For the first time, there were stories that this was all like a soap balloon and that there might be a crisis. If you take a little newspaper from that period you will see statements from both Eve Sanader and Ivan Shucker where they almost threatened Mr Rohatinski not to say such things, that there is no possibility of any crisis etc. And then she came in 2008. It was a year in which HDZ completely refused to say the word "crisis" because it was probably said by your beloved leader at the time Ivo Sanader, so since he said there was no crisis and you were saying there was no crisis here. Remember that? That there's no first crisis, that if it came to us a little bit, just as he used the expression, it nicked right. That maybe a little crisis will make us feel better. And then it ended up so we were in a banana and the man ran away behind it. Whenever we warned that there was a crisis, you told us to deceive the public, to scare the citizens, and whenever we called Ivo Sanader, here's one answer I got from your benches, I won't name a representative because he's gone, he said, saying, "You in the SDP are jealous of the fact that you don't have such a leader as Ivo Sanader." That was the answer to one of my discussions about the crisis, so the HDZ response said. For a year, you kept quiet, you avoided saying it, and by doing so, you gentlemen have done damage to the Republic of Croatia. If you had admitted a year earlier that there would be problems, that earlier measures might not have been passed, but good. Then you admitted to the crisis, so you said we were in a banana, you started with some measures that the two of them liked the citizens of Croatia the most, that's that tax, harrass and, of course, increased VAT despite your election promise. We remember those posters red blue where HDZ said openly against new taxes. You clearly said, you promised the citizens that you wouldn't introduce any taxes, and then, with that tax, you knocked on workers and pensioners, of course. That's genius. Otherwise, I don't know if you know, this House passed a law last year by which every private company that makes jumbo posters in Croatia if false advertising has to be held accountable, so I must warn you that in 2007, you really were falsely advertised then. And now, after these measures of yours, which have been sincerely seductive, because look at what they've been doing in Europe, smarter countries seem to have learned something more from us, so they've gone as far as they can, be careful what I can charge to make more money in the system, so that citizens can spend more. It even went with the price of goods being reduced, and let's not forget that in Croatia, prices of goods and equipment and equipment went to our tariffs even worse in the middle of the crisis. Also nobody mentioned that in the countries of Europe there was a debate on what is called Robin Hood's taxes,... etc., to tax speculators in the crisis, so let's say the UK said the speculators would pay taxes speculating on the financial market, they would pay 0.5% and eventually calculate that by doing so they would come between £150 and £200 billion in the country's protection of the social rights of those who lost the most in the crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such discussions are still going on in Europe. And now you've introduced the law that you've introduced. The new tax and the bill obviously didn't turn out well. The budget didn't seem to be as full as you thought, people were still out of work, undeniable since this tax was introduced to the present day, tens of thousands of people lost thousands of businesses, legal persons were shut down, legal persons who were still surviving or living have cut their employees' salaries below the level of crisis tax, so I know three members of your party who are private entrepreneurs, employees of their own companies have cut their own salary that they don't have to pay that tax. Beneath the level. Your members. The peace of the same moment is therefore not coordinated, and what is worst fell is the payment power of citizens, which means the problem with VAT collection. And now what we're doing today, to shorten my debate, is actually, i.e. What you do after all is a maneuver. Why are you terminating this tax rate? Well, first of all, not because the government is very good, so it's too early to cancel this tax, simply because the media tax didn't do well for the HDZ picture, but second, you don't do it because you're socially sensitive, because if you were socially sensitive, you wouldn't put this tax on pensioners and workers at the very beginning, and in the end, you're not even doing it to apologize here I heard during the debate that it was done to bring stability into the financial system, so now it's being abolished because I guess stability has been achieved. And if stability is achieved why Ivan Shuker according to that famous model that journalists so nicely called a one-walking loan every week and owes the state wherever it comes. He owed my grandson, and I still don't have my own child. Such an assignment. After all, I will give my opinion, this is cold-blooded mathematics and pure statistics. Someone has clearly calculated that no good budget is being filled, the unemployed who do not receive salaries cannot go to this tax, tens of thousands who work and do not receive wages, and nothing comes to them, but whether someone is employed or unemployed everyone has to pay VAT on different things in their life. That's why VAT was increased on one side. Everyone's got to pay the director's fee, so the gas's increased, the more expensive the gas. Look what's last week, the media were full, the price of oil drops, in Croatia rising the price of gasoline, where the missing story is gonna protect 8 kunas for Super95, he's 8 and 20 today, suddenly no one's gonna talk about how he's gonna protect himself, 8 and a half sorry and you're saying you're gonna protect 8 kuna, 8 and a half, VAT, has someone swearing in their pocket or doesn't have to pay VAT and it's pure mathematics. This is a cruel cynicism, you've taken the people's taxes so far, and now you're giving them back a toenail of that 2%, but with this VAT, with the directors, you're taking both their hands. It's really cruel cynicism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51320	Thank you very much. Next, a colleague, Mario Habek, applied for discussion. Comrade Habek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51321	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here are two proposals to amend the law on so-called. And what kind of hack is this? It's a special tax that, as we know, was introduced last year, because the state was not and is not able to control its costs today. The average pension today is about 2 thousand kuna, and with 3 thousand kuna, the amount taxed cannot be lived. Two salaries are not able to feed one average family of Croatian, especially when we also took their school textbooks, when we took their transportation to school, etc., etc. We took it all away from them, that is, we took it all from those who do not have it, and therefore those who have it do not pay taxes. You take this law to citizens 2%, which is about a day's cost of living in one month, but it doesn't matter to the state, because the state needs help to the citizens, and that's why it needs to be solid at such times with the state. This is the honest Croatia offered by this Croatian government, offers us an honest Croatia to give citizens who have no salary because this same government spends beyond measure and is unable to regulate consumption for 7 years. What is true and what is the basis of this law? It's gentlemen that we live in a country that is capable of having 3 budget rebalances in just 3 months, in a country where the government's cash register is empty, in a country that has no monetary, no industrial and no regional policy. We are in ignorance and chaos, but the saddest and most worrying fact is that we do not have a government that has a political will to face truly the state of the country. No political will. If you had directed money into the economy by this tax and by raising value added tax in a way that created a new value would have resulted in economic growth, this is how only the redistribution of funds happened. The state took one part of the citizens, and the other part took the economy. The state also spent that money, and the effect of everything is an even deeper sink that followed the introduction of these taxes. And you can see that very clearly today. Introducing such taxes in recession when the whole world is working exactly the opposite, tax-deprives the economy, tax-deprives citizens to boost economic growth and to encourage the creation of a new value, this policy in Croatia is entirely guilty. And this is what it feels like today, the consequences of this Croatian government's bad policy are felt. It has come to citizens paying more, the state is killing more, but with this money it has not created any new value but has settled the debts that this government has made during its reign. On the other hand, that money is not invested in the economy, and citizens have been reduced in income and their purchasing power is reduced as soon as the income is reduced. As soon as they weaken their purchasing power, less tax on added value will be added. In other words, by introducing these taxes, or these laws, you have further destroyed the Croatian economy and increased unemployment. After only the first two months of this year, the budget deficit was 3.6 billion kuna, and the budget is charged by several percentages slower than in the same period last year when neither the hack nor the higher VAT rate existed. It is clear from this data that the hack for most Croatian citizens, that for most Croatian citizens, the harrassor represents one hard-to-bearing punch in the pocket and this is proof that the crisis tax, i.e., should never have been introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51322	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Zdenko Franic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And by doing so, we've exhausted all reports of individual debate. On behalf of the SDP representative's club for the final debate, counterpart Slavko Linic reported. Here you go, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP Club addresses most of the Croatian Parliament, and we are trying to tell today that the tax, the special tax, is a mistake. A mistake because he gave negative effects, not positive effects. And if we've already failed to react correctly at the 7th month last year, let's try today with quality. You saw that the law defends responsible persons from the ministry not from the government. The government is aware of its mistakes and that is why we in the SDP are very clearly telling you we will be and will vote for this law because the damage should be stopped as soon as possible. But we have also proposed two amendments to each law. For the Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Salary and Pensions, we have proposed an amendment proposing the abolition of the whole of Article 5. So we suggest we cancel out the 4% rate as well. And another article where we made it very clear to you that we suggest that application be made instead of July 1st. As regards the proposal of the Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, we propose that Article be deleted. 11th, better said elimination and 4% rate. And we are also proposing from May 1st instead of September 1st. So we're all aware of the mistakes. That mistake costs, costs the state budget, costs our citizens, costs the entrepreneurs. Let's cancel it completely and apply it from 01.05. You'll have opportunities to plead on these amendments, what we pray, suggest, let's not prolong our error. They are not effects for the state budget and are not good for Croatian citizens. Independently, taxpayers themselves are citizens or companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51324	Thank you very much. We're done arguing. The proposer doesn't answer for a word anymore. We'll vote when we get the chance and the conditions. Tomorrow, normally at 9.30 p.m., we continue at paragraph 7. by amending the Customs Act, and today at 6:00 p.m. at the church of St. Marka is serving as a muffler mass for the tragically deceased president of Poland and fellow passengers on the plane, so who is able to invite you to join. Thank you very much. I'm finishing today's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51325	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts. He was the emergency procedure PZ number 523. Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The rules of procedure tabled by the amendments must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who agrees to hold a debate on the government's amendments? Here you are, Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51326	Both the Government and the Laws and the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, and the corresponding provisions of Article 163 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3. The government, as well as the representative, may submit amendments after the final debate only within the framework and in the context of the subject of amendments and additions. As that is not the case, these amendments cannot be accepted. The government shows this, it has a chance for two, three articles, it can't write two, three articles according to our Rules of Procedure, so you'll have one system law of 500 articles. The best thing to do is to talk about it later, by explaining our amendment, to accept our amendment and to have this removal of the harrassors in early July. Or right away, not in early July, as you imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51327	Thank you. Article 163(4) states: “Extremely from paragraph 3 of this Article, amendments may also be submitted to articles of laws which are not covered by the proposed amendments to the laws if necessary in order to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, or with documents relating to international integration, and in connection with decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia.” The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has discussed this Act and declared it in accordance with the Constitution, and says: "The Constitutional Court holds that the introduction of this tax is legally acceptable only as the reasons of public interest justify its application, and has instructed the Government to constantly examine the necessary need for its existence, and depending on the fall of the intensity of the economic crisis, it proposes to the Parliament its harmonisation, i.e. the abolition and before the legal deadline of 31 December 2010, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has announced several times so far." How this amendment is related to the Constitutional Court's decision. What are you laughing at? So laugh somewhere else. Well, you're a lot of funny guys, so we're not laughing. Please, so according to Article 163. As the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia apply to this law and articles of the law, I think we can adopt after the debate, of course, we will open the debate on amendments so that we can accept these amendments from the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51328	One sentence, this provision that you have read, so it refers precisely to how the Constitutional Court reacted to one law, found it unconstitutional, and then the amendment needs to be brought into line with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51329	Please let your colleague finish her thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51330	Here's another one, that's perfectly clear. Therefore, "The exemption from paragraph 3 of this Article may also be submitted to articles of law which are not covered by the proposed amendments to the law, if necessary in order to comply with the Constitution". Please, Mr. President, it is generally known that the Constitutional Court has failed to comply with the request for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law. Therefore, from the position of the Constitutional Court, the adoption of the locks was constitutionally, i.e. in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, here these amendments or amendments do not harmonize the law with the Constitution as provided for in this provision that you have read, but are amended, that is to say, the harachus is abolished. And you're unable to lift it by one provision even though you know it well when it needs to be introduced, then there's no ban. But when you cut it, then you're not gonna do it by law or by the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51331	I quoted the entire article in Article 4, which you did not, but you stopped and did not complete those provisions of the Rules of Procedure in this regard. And it is not true that he declared the Constitutional Court unconstitutional by this law, but I quoted "the Constitutional Court that the introduction of this tax is legally acceptable". Therefore, the constitutional legal debate was discussed and ordered the government to monitor the situation, monitor the movement at all, and then respond accordingly. The government has also adopted these amendments to the Parliament and we will now open a debate on amendments that can be acceptable or unacceptable. However, it is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament paragraph 4 of Article 163 and these are: "Who is agreeing to conduct a debate on the amendments of the Government?" Let's please get involved and vote on it. The result? This proposal was accepted by 78 votes for, 4 abstentions and 24 against, i.e. to hold a debate on the Government's amendments. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain the Government's amendments, on the first amendment of the first Government. Mr. Ivica Mladneo State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51332	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. We have before us amendments to the government. Amendment 1 to Article 1 which reads as follows: "Article 1 is amended and reads as follows: "In the Law in Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts of the "National Journal" No. 119/2009. the year in Article 5(6) is deleted. Article 1 so far becomes Article 3 and it is about the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts of the "National Journal" No. 119/2009. Delete and put a big letter at the beginning of the sentence." In the text of the final proposal for a law amending the Act on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, the text should be amended in a manner proposed by the amendment in order to reduce the period for which the special income tax is charged and payable from other independent activities and other receipts for the purpose of harmonising with the Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts from an independent activity. Since it is estimated that this specific law will also satisfy the objective, and that, as an exceptional revenue from the state budget, all state services and the performance of all state functions and tasks are allowed to be uninterrupted and to meet all current obligations provided for in the State budget. Also in line with the programme of economic recovery that the government adopted at the last session.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51333	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And they have the right of course clubs to discuss amendments. Can I help you with a word? No one. I'm closing the debate. I am putting Amendment 1 to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The government's 1st amendment was accepted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 7 against. We're moving on to the second amendment of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51334	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 2 is amended as follows: "In Article 10(1), the word "in the period of validity of this law" is replaced by the words "from the date of entry into force of this law until 31 December 2010. Article 2 so far becomes Article 7. Explanation. In the text of the final proposal of the Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activities and Other Receipts, the text should be amended in a manner proposed by the amendment in order to reduce the period for which a special income tax on independent activities and other receipts is charged and paid. So we're cutting it down in two months.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51335	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this second amendment to the government. Any interest? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I give Amendment 2 to the Government on Article 2. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. Amendment 2 to Article 2 was accepted by the majority of votes, 76 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against. We move to Amendment 3 to Article 3. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51336	Amendment 3 to Article 3, Article 3 so far becomes Article 8. In the text of the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, it is necessary to amend the text in a way proposed by the amendment to the present and the addition of new articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51337	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 3. Any interest? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I shall vote on Amendment 3 to Article 3. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This amendment is not received, there is no quorum. Please establish the quorum in the assembly. There isn't. Please establish the quorum. Please engage or we'll raise our hands and we'll determine there's a quorum. Please, nice. Please engage to see the quorum. 113, so we have a quorum and we vote on the 3rd amendment by raising our hands. Who is for this amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? For it was 75, abstentioned 38. The amendment has been accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51338	Amendment 4 in Article 12(1): "Article 5(6)." They're being erased. In paragraph 3, the words "for the period from 1 January 2011 to 28 February 2011, a special income tax from independent activity and other receipts shall be paid by 28 February 2011 at the latest." They're being erased. In the text of the final proposal of the Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, the text should be amended in a manner proposed by the amendment in order to reduce the period for which a special income tax on independent activities and other receipts is charged and paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51339	Thank you. I am opening a hearing on Amendment 4 to Article 4. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am putting this amendment to the government for a vote. I ask who is for this amendment 4 to raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? The amendment was accepted by the majority of votes, 75 votes for and 40 abstentions, nothing against it. We move to the 5th Amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51340	In Article 13 of the words "until 28 February 2011." is replaced by the words "until 31 December 2010". In the text of the final proposal of the Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, the text should be amended in a manner proposed by the amendment in order to reduce the period for which a special income tax on independent activities and other receipts is charged and paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51341	Thank you. I am opening a debate on Article 5(5) of this Amendment 5. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please raise your hand for this amendment. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The amendment was accepted by the majority of votes, 75 votes in favour and 39 against. We move to Amendment 6 to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51342	In Article 14(2), the following words: "A report on the return and payment of a special income tax on independent activities and other receipts for the period from 1 January...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51343	Detained 39. Now I announce that 39 is retained. 75, 39. What? There's nothing against it. Thank you. Let's go to the Sixth Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51344	In Article 14(2), the word ‘report’ is calculated and paid in particular to the income tax on independent activities and other receipts for the period from 1 January 2011 to 28 February 2011 shall be deleted at the latest by 28 February 2011. In the text of the final proposal for a law amending the Act on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activities and Other Receipts, the text should be amended in the manner in which it is proposed by the amendment in order to reduce the period for which a special income tax on independent activities and other receipts is charged and paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51345	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the sixth amendment to the government. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's for this amendment please raise your hand? Against? Thank you. Abstained? This amendment was accepted with 75 votes for, abstention 38, nothing against. And we move on to the amendments submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. First amendment to the article first. Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51346	Thank you, Mr. President. The government doesn't accept. The bill abolished the tax rate of 2% on receipts from other independent activities and other receipts, and remains in force, it was expected to remain a 4% rate. This amendment has already been amended to ensure the smooth financing of all public obligations, including pension insurance at the time of the economic crisis, and to comply with the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Taxation of Salaries, Pensions and Other Receipts. Following the projections carried out to ensure the necessary stability of public finances, i.e. State budget resources, it is estimated that the first rate of special income tax may be abolished from other independent first-rate activities as of 1 September 2010. The introduction of this special tax stressed that the fiscal significance of this tax will be monitored throughout the whole time, but also the economic impact on which there is opportunities and suspensions before the deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51347	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please choose Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51348	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about the final proposal for a law on amendments to the special income tax of independent activity. The SDP club has proposed that 4% be abolished as well. I don't think any of us are aware that it's about a hundred people who will stay to pay that tax. Are we aware that we have introduced a crisis tax for the sake of the state's difficulties and that we estimate by this law that hundreds of people should pay that tax and that the contribution to the crisis and the resolution of the crisis should be paid under this law by hundreds of people. Are we aware of what we are saying in the Croatian Parliament? We're transferring the burden of the crisis to a hundred people, because that's how long it's going to be after two percent, that's how long it's going to be after two percent. Unjustified, economically unacceptable, politically unacceptable and that is why the SDP club says very clearly let's not do this. Let us not transfer the burden of the crisis to a small number of entrepreneurs who will continue to pay. Really incomprehensible, economically unencumbered, unprepared. We haven't even thought about what we're talking about. That's why the SDP club is asking the other MPs to accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51349	Thank you. I am putting the amendment of the 1st Club of the SDP to Article 1 on a vote that is otherwise not accepted by the Government. Please, who's for this amendment to raise your hand? And add it up. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This amendment was not accepted because 75 voted against, for 42, no abstentions. We move on to Amendment Two to Article 3 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51350	The government doesn't accept him for the reason we've mentioned before.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51351	Thank you. I'm opening up, and I'd like you to be the representative of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51352	The government is proposing a date of 1.9, and we're wondering what are the assumptions that we can really estimate it to be 1.9. What has changed in filling the state budget? What changed in terms of business? And what changed in citizens' incomes? So the SDP answers are the problem of missing resources in the state budget, and we are dealing with not crisis taxes but responsibilities, and there are increasing amounts of government budget debt in order to be able to pay off the commitments that we have imposed by accepting the national budget for 2010. Has something in the economy changed? It's not. And there's a constant increase in the number of unemployed. The low rates of economic activity of industrial activity are constantly recorded. And what's most important hasn't changed for the citizens either. Why? So new gas prices go, new fuel prices go, new electricity prices go. This is why the club proposes that the removal of the crisis tax start with 1.5 and we propose to our colleagues in the Parliament to accept our proposal in the interest of the citizens of Croatia, which is to abolish the crisis tax with 1.5.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-15-0.u51353	Thank you. I am putting this amendment 2 on Article 3. SDP MPs' club to vote. Who's in favor of this amendment, please raise your hand and please count. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The result? This amendment was not accepted because against 74 MPs and MPs, for 41, nothing was retained. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts on Independent Activity and Other Receipts. Please, let's get involved and vote on the law and the amendments that have been accepted. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This Act amending the Law on Special Tax on Receipts and Independent Activity and Other Receipts was adopted by a majority of votes, 107 votes for, 4 abstentions and one against.
