ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54860	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected parliamentary representatives. Given the state of Croatian road roads and the increasingly justified requirements for the modernisation of the same republics, Croatia had to create a strategy for accelerated traffic development. You all know what was done on the highways, what a network of highways were set up, and that highway network normally has to follow an appropriate network of state roads. For this reason we have accessed this reconstruction program of existing state roads or so on. The Betterment program. The main task of the programme is to improve the existing network of state roads, which will thus increase quality and thus act on speed, comfort and road safety. The project we are talking about is the continuation of the 2006 Road Reconstruction Project, which was also financed by the 60m-euro EIB loan. The project involves the restoration of 52 shares of state roads in the length of 675 km. The 26 shares of the total length of 371 km were included in Phase A and the work on 16 of these shares was completed, and on 10 other shares the works are ongoing. The remaining 26 shares of a total length of 304 km are included at phase B. The estimated value of the total project is 345.84m euros, of which 160m euros are waste on phase A and at phase B 185.84m euros. The financing agreement between the EIB and the Croatian Roads, signed on 12 December 2006, provided a 60m-euro loan for phase A and has so far used 54.7m euros and the rest of the 100m euros are the funds of the Croatian Roads. The new financing agreement between the EIB and the Croatian Roads, signed in Zagreb on 28 December 2009 and 30 December 2009, confirmed that the EIB will co-finance phase B costs of 60m euros and the rest of the 125.84m euros are provided by the Croatian road from its own sources. The guarantee contract which the Republic of Croatia guarantees to the EIB for the orderly implementation of the financial obligations of the Croatian Roads on the basis of the said December 2009 Finance Treaty was signed between the Republic of Croatia and the EIB on 5 January 2010 in Zagreb and 27 January 2010 in Luxembourg. Its confirmation is based on Article 18. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts and the entry into force is a condition for the effectiveness of loans. The new loan is granted for 20 years and includes a start of 5 years. The interest rate is determined according to the choice of the borrower, it is on our part, and at the acceptance of the borrower at each loan withdrawal, which gives the Croatian Roads as a borrower the opportunity to choose the type of interest rate fixed or variable which at the time of withdrawal is the most favourable given the situation on the financial market. There is also no normal cost of arrangement and reservation of loan funds other than the cost of postponement, cancellation, suspension or early payment. The completion of the work at phase A of the project is expected in early 2011, and the work on phase B started and was completed by December 2012. The technical solution of the project is such that the works are planned on these elements of the road. These are the expansion of the wheel, reconstruction of the stakes and facilities, the construction of intersections, construction of bus stations and bus stops for cars, repair and construction of curbs and banks, installation of traffic signs and equipment and construction of cycling and hiking trails. That's the basic data relating to the loan. I'm at your disposal for questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54861	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, no, no. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54862	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. Modern society requires modern infrastructure that connects markets and removes transport isolation as a result of economic underdevelopment. Construction of transport infrastructure is a fundamental assumption and an incentive for a uniform development of all our regions. We in Croatia believe that the development of the entire territory of Croatia needs to be achieved as efficiently and evenly as possible, while transport infrastructure is the predecessor of the successful development of certain areas, regions and thus the entire country. It is our view that it is necessary to continue to invest in infrastructure, and Croatia as a transit and tourist country must develop all forms of transport infrastructure in such a way as to put the individual shares into operation as soon as possible and thus contribute to the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, with the accelerated return of the funds invested. This law is also on track, so the Croatian Peasants' Club will support its adoption. Total costs related to the II/B Road Reconstruction Project were estimated at 185.84m euros. The project consists of a renovation of about 304 km of state road network in Croatia on 26 shares across the country. The European Investment Bank confirmed co-financing of project costs through loans of 60m euros, provided that the loan amount does not exceed 50% of the total cost of the project. According to the terms offered by the European Investment Bank, the loan was granted to Croatian Roads at 20 years with a repayment of the principal for up to five years. The loan will be available for use as soon as the guarantee contract enters into force. The use of loan funds was agreed by 30 November 2012. Preserving but also adapting existing state roads to today's traffic for which these roads are not designed is one of the basic tasks of Croatian roads. For this reason, Croatian roads have also defined programmes for regular and enhanced maintenance... which includes correction of the ground and vertical elements of the road, which means the expansion of the stakes and banks, the correction of sharp curves, the arrangement of intersections, the thorough reconstruction of the stakes and their adaptation to current and future traffic, the recovery of damaged road facilities, the treatment of disposal as well as transport equipment and signalling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Passages through populated areas are particularly concerned about increasing the safety of the dominant population through the construction of footsteps, cycling trails, bus shelters and the regulation of crossroad traffic. The aim, therefore, is to protect the road from further collapse and, on the other hand, to adapt it to today's requirements of road users with particular emphasis on increasing safety and driving comfort. The realisation of the Batterment programme began in 2003. It was completed in 2008. It included 25 shares of state roads of a total length of 394 km while the implementation of the Betterment 2 programme began in 2007, and the programme itself includes the restoration of 52 shares of state roads of a total length of around 680 km. The Betterment Two program is divided into two stages. The first to include works on the first 26 shares of 371 km of total value of one billion kuna. The first phase works are fully completed on 20 shares, and the remaining 6 shares will be completed by the end of this year. The implementation of the second phase of the Betterment 2 programme, which includes the restoration of the remaining 26 shares of state roads, has been prepared. Croatian roads have signed a loan with the European Investment Bank at 60m euros, representing about 50% of the remaining works, and the rest of Croatia's roads are financed from their current revenues. The preparation of an international tender for the first 10 shares is under way, and the start of work on those shares is expected in the autumn of this year. The completion of the work on all 26 shares was planned during 2013. The expected value of the work on all 26 shares is about 1 billion kuna. The selection of shares for both the first and second Batterment programme was carried out by the technical services of the Croatian Roads based on data on state roads that are regularly collected, periodically analysed and analysed for the entire network of state roads that have about 7,000 km in Croatia. Therefore, the basic criteria for selecting the included shares are the road condition and traffic size to make the benefits achieved as much as possible, taking into account equal representation of the shares in all areas, i.e. regions in the Republic of Croatia. The correctness of the selection of shares has been confirmed by a study of justification which has shown the exceptional profitability of the investment in the recovery of the shares involved. According to an analysis of the state of the entire national road network during the last planning period from 2005 to 2008, these investments in the reconstruction of state roads, with significantly lower investment through state road maintenance programmes, also resulted in six percentage improvements in the state road network. Thus, by such a percentage, state roads have been reduced in poor condition and increased road participation in good condition and generally increased traffic safety for these vital parts of the public road network in the Republic of Croatia. The completion of the two national roads reconstruction programme, Betterment Two, which Croatia's roads are planning by 2013 will certainly contribute to further improving the state network's situation which could be similar to that of the last planning period, so about five to six percent. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a Road Reconstruction Project II/B. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54863	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54864	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to say right away that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for Road Reconstruction project II Croatia/B. The European Investment Bank is a well-known financial institution in Croatia. This is the European Union’s Luxembourg-based financial institution. The Member States of the European Union are all 27 stakeholders of the European Investment Bank, and of course their shares are determined according to their economic strength within the European Union. For the purpose of financing projects, the European Investment Bank is additionally in charge of capital markets under very favourable conditions. The main role of the European Investment Bank is to provide funds for capital investments related to the development and integration of the European Union. Loans issued are intended to develop underdeveloped regions, develop infrastructure, improve the competitiveness of European industry, protect the environment, renewable energy sources and the like. The relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank are generally determined by the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank which regulates the activities of the European Investment Bank in the Republic of Croatia, signed on 13 December 2000. On 6 February 2001, the Committee of the Governors of the European Investment Bank approved the granting of loans for investment projects in the Republic of Croatia, thus allowing the conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of the first loan agreements. So far, the European Investment Bank in Croatia has concluded a total of 18 public sector financing contracts on the basis of which three direct public loans amounting to 190 million euros and 15 loans with the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia totalling one billion and 305 million kuna. As part of these loans, I would like to single out and highlight the importance of a loan from the European Investment Bank in the Republic of Croatia which was intended for the completion project of the Rijeka highway – Zagreb of 210m euros, which was signed on 9 March 2006. The Rijeka-Zagreb highway is one of the busiest shares in Croatia, which is extremely important for the transport connection between the Primorje-Gorski and Istria County with the rest of Croatia, but also wider. I would point out that before the stock was completed, the journey from Rijeka to Zagreb could last for up to 4 hours. The completion of this highway enables faster, safer and more quality road traffic. Given the state of Croatian road roads and the growing legitimate demands for modernising them, the Republic of Croatia had to create a strategy for accelerated traffic development. One of the most important objectives of the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is to improve the overall network of roads to a higher level of service. In addition to the new construction programme, one of the most important programs within the overall road work is the reconstruction program of existing state roads, i.e. the bettermen programme. The task of the road improvement programme, the reconstruction of the existing network of state roads, which will increase quality and thus act on speed, comfort and safety in road transport. By restoring the stakes and equipment by modernising and reconstructing the most critical shares, and facilities, except that the overall level of quality of road network, to a level that imposes the needs of modern road traffic, will be quality connected Croatian regions, especially coastal areas, which are of great importance for the development of tourism, but also for the economy as a whole. It must also not be forgotten that Croatia is an important transit country, and that an improved infrastructure network will contribute to integration with the European Union market. The financing agreement with the European Investment Bank for the Road Reconstruction project two has been agreed to restore 52 shares of public roads of 675km in length. The estimated value of the total project is around 346m euros, and it is agreed to split the project into two stages. The first phase covers the construction of 26 shares of the road reconstruction project so far, in total length of 371km and worth 160m euros. Up until now, 16 shares have been fully completed and placed on the market, and on the rest of the shares the work is currently under way, and the expected completion of all works is early 2011. For this stage of road renewal, therefore phase A 60m euros was secured from the loan of the European Investment Bank, based on the contract of December 2006, and the rest of the 100m euros are the funds of the Croatian Roads. The second phase, phase B, implies negotiating works for the remaining 26 shares, and financing from the new loan of the European Investment Bank. So the two-by-B road reconstruction project is a continuation of the 2006 road reconstruction project, which is also financed by the loan of the European Investment Bank, worth 60m euros. This phase includes the remaining 26 shares in the central, Istrian, eastern and eastern region and Dalmatia, a total length of 304km and a value of 185m euros. Phase B works have started and their completion is expected by the end of December 2012. These works include the extension of the stakes, the reconstruction of the stakes and the facilities, the construction of intersections, the construction of bus posts and the points of view for cars, repair and construction of curbs and banks, the installation of traffic signs and equipment, and the construction of cycling and walking paths. The financing agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Croatian Roads, signed in Zagreb on 28 December 2009 and 30 December 2009 in Luxembourg, confirmed that the European Investment Bank will co-finance the costs of phase B of 60m euros and the rest of the 125.84m euros provide Croatian roads from its own resources. The guarantee contract which the Republic of Croatia guarantees to the European Investment Bank for the orderly implementation of the financial obligations of the Croatian Roads, based on the contract mentioned in December 2009, was signed between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank on 5 January 2010 in Zagreb and 27 January 2010 in Luxembourg. The new loan was granted for 20 years, including a start of 5 years. The interest rate is determined according to the choice of borrower, and at the acceptance of the borrower at each withdrawal of the loan funds, which of course gives Croatian roads the opportunity to choose that type of interest rate, fixed or variable, which at the time of withdrawal is assessed as the most favourable given the situation on the financial market. There are also no usual costs for the arrangement and reservation of loan funds, except for the costs of postponement, cancellation, suspension or early payment. This loan has great importance for the restoration of state roads, and hence the increase in the quality and safety of road traffic in Croatia, and therefore the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for Road Reconstruction project two through B. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54865	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54866	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues If only we would look at the terms of the lending under which Croatia signed this loan agreement or about the loan for reconstruction, reconstruction, improvement of state roads, then indeed one would not have to say a word against such a proposal. However, when you look closely at and promote this material that we have received, then from the position of the HDZB and my personal one, it is difficult not to notice certain and not point out certain objections to this proposal of the Law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank, or the EIB, as they like to say, for the renewal of road 2B in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, it's about rebuilding the state roads. And when on the page. 54 We look, and as someone here has already pointed out and counted the roads that are scheduled for restoration at this stage, phase "B" can easily understand that of the 26 projects that are highlighted here and listed in the regions, and here I have to invest to say dissatisfaction, because in the first 6 are projects from Dalmatia, then there are 7 projects from Istria, so it writes Dalmatia and writes Istria, and then... Yeah, and then 10 projects so-called. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Central Croatia and 2 projects, only 2 projects so-called Eastern Croatia because it's so hard for you to write Slavonia, I don't know, and Baranja. Which makes it so hard to say and even harder to write. What's worse is just two projects so-called. Eastern Croatia in a total mileage of 303.6 km and two roads or particles in Eastern (your) Croatia are in total length of 21.7 km. And this is the road Velika Zdenci – Hercegovac which is only partially said in Eastern Croatia, and more belongs to the Central and Slatina – Čajjavica. So these are the only two roads. Is that even development? And when someone's talking about even development here, Mrs. Petir, the Republic of Croatia and the road construction. And we pay back all the loans to the EIB, including the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja and our part of Srijem. So, gentlemen of the Ministry of Transport, the sea, the bond, and I don't know what not, you've abolished the rail transport, among which is the Nasice railway – the Pleternica and in conversation with the gentleman, your boss, Mr. Minister, I've been promised that this railroad will go first into reconstruction, and then I see these days that it's not true, but that the influence and political forces of Daruvar – Sirac are given priority. So lies, lies and neglect of Slavonia and Baranja in every way. Gentlemen, isn't it more necessary, if it wasn't possible for these projects, and in this project, ultimately, to include in this bill the state road in Slavonski Brod, which is called Osijek Street popularly on which every day 15 thousand nervous drivers wait on a ramp that cuts that national road on the pan-European corridor on the tenth and creates traffic jam in 6 cities per majority in Croatia, and perhaps now 5. Because the town of Slavonski Brod has good talent. Furthermore, we see here previous projects funded by the EIB with considerable amounts. From the port of Zadar 100 million euros, and you know well and it is also in your ministry, in the vault of your ministry, that there is also a port of Brod, that there is a state road called the Eastern Vesna Road, a state road you have no idea about when it will be built or you have signs of building that road. So how come you're not ashamed once that you're so ashamed of Slavonia and Baranja, the cities, the villages and the entire region? And then it's clear that there's a revolution in Slavonia, there's an int, when it's all visible and even from official documents that you deliver to us like this on the benches. Come on, tell me, if you know, when will the Eastern Vesna Road project begin? When will the underpass in Slavonski Brod be built? The city, which has 85 thousand inhabitants, and the roads are built, so to count without indignation, I am pleased to improve the roads and in this as it says the coast here, Cilipi - Karosivići, Živogosce - Ploče, Jelsa - Poljica, Šedanovac - Lovrinčević, Knin - Biscopy. So tell me, how long has it been for those roadside cars? And how many cars go through the state road in Slavonski Brod. ... And there's a state road in Ship, Mrs. Shuica, if you didn't know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me just tell you, I'm talking about state roads. And not to mention those local, county roads that we call in Slavonia at the Japanese summits, we won't. So, the Fallen Node Old Guard - St. Rok, Gračac - Korenica, Deblo Brdo - Bunić, Ljubovo, Lopar - Rab, Vodice - Orlec, Novi Vinodolski - Kozica, let the citizens that this road is about hear. Don't tell me about the money here, the EIB, etc. But all these roads are also funded by taxpayers, so at two-thirds of the value, because the EIB gives only one third, so 60m euros, and Croatia's road 185m euros. Therefore, two-thirds are, and this EIB loan is returned to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the grace of the period and favourable interest. So let the citizens know that this is about the roads of Novi Vinodolski – Kozica, Barban Most – Rasa, Selce – Kučina, Petrinja – Gora, Komarevo – Brdjani, Velika Gorica – Mala Buna, Ivanić City, here is someone saying state roads. There is no place in Ivanić City, no place to go, no place to go. Novor Zaprešić, Risvica – Dobrovčan, Marija Bistrica – Kasina, Laz, Valentinovo – Krapina, Vidovec – Lepoglava, Turk – Novi Marof and then these 2 so-called roads in the interior or in Eastern Croatia as you keep calling it, Velika Zdenci – Hercegovac and Slatina – Čajjavica in the length of 15.2 km. All these roads, I note and emphasize, are also funded by citizens from their pockets and citizens of Slavonia and Baranja, and here's how it gets back. And even that name can't be written unhappily. There's no tunnel in Slavonia, there's nothing to paint, there's the biggest hill of pumpkins, then there's no tunnel, there's no road construction, there's no tunnel painting. Since we are not malignancies, we are neither evil nor bad, it is difficult not to vote that this advantageous 60m-euro loan to Croatia for road reconstruction, but those that I have listed, to vote negatively. But gentlemen at the Ministry of Transport already was the time to make sure once that there is both Slavonia and Baranja in this country, and when we travel from Slavonia here we say we are going to Croatia. And we seem to have a country looking like a stepmother and the Ministry of Transport, the sea and the bond, etc., is the right stepmother towards Eastern Slavonia, eastern Croatia and our Slavonia and Baranja. Not to mention those roads Mrs. Shuica tried to impute me from the bench, about roads that are county rank, they're a special story. In view of the situation in our county which is according to fiscal capacity and according to all other indicators in the last place in Croatia for years then you know how these roads that are financed from the county budgets are partly from the Croatian Roads budget, but how we get the money, how you look at us from the Ministry, from the state of Croatia, it seems difficult to improve the roads without talking about cycling trails, shelters covered, etc., to reach us in Slavonia. I am not satisfied with this, although I say given the conditions of lending and these citizens of Croatia who live along these roads, I think it will improve the quality of life, which is the ultimate goal, and I have listed all those road shares that are provided for these 2B roads in the contract with the European Investment Bank, it is difficult to take away the impression and dissatisfaction of this proposal, and whether there will be a new contract for Slavonia and for more roads involved, it seems to me a job called in Slavonia "wait for the coins while the grass grows". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54867	Thank you. We have some corrections, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54868	Do not be afraid, Mr. Grubisic, nor can this government be delirious to favour Istria in any way. I know you're confused by what surprised me. But that's exactly what it's all about, you mentioned page 54 and 7 of the projects to God in Istria and indeed here says the region of Istria, the place of the coast, but interesting of these 26 shares in the area of the county of Istria is just 1 and that is Barban-Most Rasa in the length of 8.5 kilometers. And now for being planted under Istria. It's the knot of St. Rok-Grac, under Istria they put Korenica-Debelo hill, under Istria is Bunić-Ljuvo, under Istria is Lopar-Rab, Vodice-Orlec, not in Istria but in the Primorje-Gorski County and Novi Vinodolski-Kozica. So there's only one share in Istria that's eight miles long. If there are as many as 21 kilometers in Slavonia, you are not privileged in any way, but you did well with Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54869	Correction Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54870	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct the inaccuracy of my colleagues Grubisic that the Ministry of Stepmothers according to Slavonia, and my colleague Grubisic for your information and information, only in the area of Požeko-Slavonska County and part of Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska from the first programme of Batterman, on the part of Bječko-Slavonska-Pleternica, was made 18km of a new road, i.e. a renewed road worth 50 million kuna, on the part of Pakrac-Daruvar, means two counties of Požeko-Slavonska-Bijelovarska-Biological and Doljani-Omanovac, 13.1 km worth about 25 million kuna, and these are activities that were successfully carried out in the first phase of Battermen. It should be said that units of local self-government must do their part, seek, run towards the Ministry. You have cases like the town of Požega that there is no programme directed towards either Croatian roads or ministries, and of course in the areas of such units of local self-government, there is no activity from the resolution ministries, Croatian roads, etc. So here's your information, come to Pakrac, let's take a ride with this stock, and see how great this Pacrac-Daruvar stock looks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54871	Thank you. Correction Mr. Sima Djurdjevic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure please, Mr Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54872	This Regulation shall enter into force Mr. President's Rules of Procedure, Mr. Fellow Representative is talking about what I haven't spoken at all and he won't indicate how many roads were built in other parts of that first Betterment in other regions, just indicating what is right with him. And on the Pacrac-Caglin road, that road is like that road, please tell me, while you're at it, you know about Pakrac, what kind of road Pakrac-Caglin is, so the other day I went to the macadamia there. It's an ecological road.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54873	Here's Sime Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54874	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. You and your colleague Grubisic are coming from Slavonski Brod and me. It is true that the town of Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County needs an overpass on Osijek Street, an East Vesna Road, and the town of Novi Gradička bypass to reach the industrial zone. However, I am correcting the wrong assumption, it is not true that nothing was done in Slavonia, i.e. specifically in Brodo-Posavina County, these funds made the road Podvinje, Tonica, Rastushje, with the complete infrastructure along the road, also the road Pleternica, Dragoveci, Batrina, and Lužani and the link with the highway in total value of one and the other road 90 million kuna. So when we project an eastern and high-level bridge to finish design, we hope to make these three projects in due time in a year, two in Brod-Posavina County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54875	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54876	Mr. Vice President. My dear fellow Shima, I did not speak of hopes, Article 209. Rules of Procedure, therefore, this correction is completely declassified, because I wasn't talking about hopes, but I'm asking you to say when, Mr. Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54877	Unfortunately, it doesn't say that in the Rules of Procedure, but that's the first time we've used a plate that way. We're going to continue to discuss clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54878	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So one more time so there won't be any delusion. In this project of 304 km, which will be built between the other and the loan of this European Investment Bank in Istria County, only one share is built, with a length of 8.5 km, from Barban to the Rasa Bridge. The fact that under Istria is classy and the knot of St. Rok, Gračac, Korenica, Deblo Brdo, Bunić, Ljubovo, Lopar, Rab, Vodice, Orlec, Novi Vinodolski, Kozica about it at some other time. But we're going in kind of a row. First, the 11th party here is said and what the predecessors mentioned was that the bank granted a loan in total, i.e. an equivalent of 60m euros in favour of the borrower, which will be used for the restoration of 26 shares of state roads of a total length of 304 kim. On page 26 here, it is said that the total cost of the project was estimated at 185,840 euros, and the borrower said the project intends to finance in the following way. One million euros 185.8m euros. And it's from its own resources. So the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Road 125.8m euros and a loan from the bank of 60m euros. On page 42 of this discussion, please allow me to quote: "The borrower is obliged to engage in accordance with the bank acceptable tender procedures of the project management consultant, whose experience and references are acceptable to the bank and to provide technical assistance to the project implementation team together with support" etc. giving advice on the project and everything else that's simply standing here is that I'm not quoting everything. This means clearly that the creditor determines his consultant and then means that a good part of that approved money will withdraw or "return" or go to the consultant. It is the fundamental principle of all those who in some way lend us that part of that money, but with these money you can't clearly treat autonomously, but you'll have to hire my consultants, I almost dare to show up often buying my equipment through my performers, getting certain materials, etc. Subcontractors, etc. This in some ways Croatia too often I dare say leads to an inferior position. But what we're gonna do is we get money and we don't actually have one of our own. This page 54 means Road Reconstruction Project in Phase II, Phase B, so the Betterment project I mentioned and said that only this 8.5 km long section is being built in Istria from Barban to the Rasa Bridge. Absolutely that road is needed, it is certainly one of the priorities to raise the security of communication on that eastern coast of Istria. But it's my suggestion because I don't believe that the stock from Barban to the Rusha Bridge has 8.5 km, that some of the funds are actually being removed and bypassed in Barban itself. I dare say that roundabout Barban simply might be a priority in that part of Istria with a merger of the final road from Labin to Učka tunnel actually one small compound remained from 2 km from Vranje to Učka which I also want to believe will soon be realized. That's why I picked up the most to highlight the priority perhaps at this point for the tours in Barban or near Barabbas. This does not require the provision of some large astronomical means. This bypass could take place on a one-mile stake and when we look at what's going on in Barban itself, it's simply through those little alleys all these or one good part of the truck from Koromačna, or Holcim Group towards the western market or towards the west coast of Istria, it's literally going to be insufferable and someone's going to have to solve that detail on that road sooner or later. So IDS is absolutely for this project. I can say that I'm even "surprisingly" that these tiny eight.5 kilometers were in this project. Well last year we realized or a few years ago a stock from Buzet to Ponte Portone which is also commendable. But I'm really giving you this one remark that with those 8.5 kilometers, we should realize and bypass through Barban. Speaking of Barban, I'm calling here to the INA. Let them modernise their pump in Barban. I know it's not about this report, but they just need to draw attention that what's there when it comes to that INA pump is just a shame, and the revenues they make are certainly solid. The second thing I want to point out when I talk about these Istrian priorities is the need to start to adapt the state road from the border crossing of Požana via Buzet to Roč, or Lupoglav. That road isn't in this program. I know that relatively soon the adaptation of a smaller part of a cca of 1.5 km will begin. Every year on that part of Buzet towards Roc, Lupoglav gets us two, three people killed. The road actually goes along the border or from the Croatian-Slovenian border towards the Učka tunnel. Through that road, I dare say, 1/10 of our tourists enter Croatia every year. Exports across that road must be 5% of Croatian exports, imports must be 5% of Croatian imports, and the situation on that road, I mentioned those deaths, is actually catastrophic. I cannot call it out now, to be cynical, Pahora, because by not building roads towards the Republic of Croatia, in some ways our country wants to deliberately isolate our country from European flows, if on the other hand it is not built and roads on the Croatian side. Finally 6.7, I mentioned it several times after this speaker, if something does not go wrong, Presidents Josipovic and Turk should meet in Buzet, so they will be able to convince themselves in the economic position of the northern part of Istria and industry, but also this road or traffic isolation, and perhaps there will be some conclusion that the two states will not be able to isolate each other by the construction of roads, meaning they will not isolate each other by not building roads. Finally, when I talk about these death cases that happen on that road, no one drunk, no one drugged, no one crazy, and people just get us killed year after year. Always in those reports, the reasons for police administrations appear data unadjusted driving, and the real truth is that the road is in one catastrophic situation and the question is whether it can be driven on a road like this at all. All in all, this project, this guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for Road Renovation Project II (Croatia) etc., this Betterment program, is one commendable programme. Is that Istria, and this time, to paraphrasise Mr Grubisic's words for Slavonia, is not in any way underrated, inadequately represented, but no matter what, we are looking forward to this 8.5km section of Barban towards the Rasa Bridge, with the emphasis that I should thus find the funds and parallelize and bypass through Barban itself. From Barban to the Rush Bridge I doubt it's eight miles, when I get back down I'm going to measure exactly what it is, I don't think there's that much. So, there is at least the means to start building and bypass, and then let some institutions from the County of Istria get involved in the purchase of land and the rest, as the Istrians would say, in a single track, build and bypass and modernise the road, from Barban to the Rasa Bridge. Once again, the IDS club supports this guarantee contract. I think it's a commendable project and it's too bad they're gone and it's too bad we don't discuss things like this more often in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54879	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. Comrade Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54880	Comrade Cain, you have literally said that Istra according to the table on page 54 is inferior and underrated since you have in that list roads for Betterment, improvement, reconstruction of only the Barban-bridge Raša section in the length of 8.5 km. You team must know that Istrian County is only a county, and Slavonia and Baranja is five counties. So whoever's in an inferior position, don't talk like that. So we can't compare one Slavonia that has almost a million inhabitants and Istria with 250, 260 and the surface as well. Furthermore, according to this list, Mr. Caine, it says here that you have a share of the root-fat hill that's on the coast, you might think. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54881	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, HSU colleague Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54882	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The debate on this bill has one innovative thing, and that is now we have heard new regionalization, already included. Whether it's it or something else we'll see, but anyway I believe that, I want to believe that it's not a new regionalization. Immediately at the beginning, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retirement Party will support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a Road Reconstruction Project. It's about state roads. Out of the total roads, when we turn off unclassified roads or better said roads that are under the authority of units of local administration, it is about 6800 km or 23% of total roads, if 1500 km of highways and 21 thousand county roads or better said road under county road management. It is a significant transport network, a transport network that certainly does not meet the needs and times in which we live, and it is absolutely certain that a strong reconstruction of state roads is necessary as a sequence of construction, quality construction of highway networks. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners want to believe that the criteria define the shares and regions in which these funds will be spent, as funds and previous tranches have been spent. Is the whole story possible to speed up, is dynamic possible, one faster dynamic? I believe so. As far as we are prepared through the project documentation, given that very clear criteria are laid down how and how these funds can be used. I hope adequate documentation is also needed. But in any case, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners believe that the overall dynamics of reconstruction of state roads should be accelerated. There is certainly one option also available through structural funds at the moment we enter the European Union definitely. However, we from the HNS Club and the Croatian Retirement Party want to warn of one thing that is evident, which is an extremely big problem and by logic of things, given that a good network of state roads follows a good network of highways by logic things should be followed by a good network of state roads. And I think the opportunity is now and through the debate about this wheel and all the others to warn, literally to warn of a huge problem, and that's the problem of county roads. We're talking 72% of total roads. We are talking about roads that are burdened by regional administrations, counties, county road administrations and we are talking about roads for which funding sources are not prescribed by the county level, according to the state. 80% of these funds are financed from the annual fee for the use of public roads paid on registration, which has not changed since 2002. Since 2002, she's the same. The source of financing of the county road administrations is the same. It is true that it also has one lever in Croatian roads at the level of the 205 million circus allocated under the rule. But it is true that there are 35 million allocated by the minister, the resolute minister, but without criteria, which certainly has no criteria, which certainly has criteria. There are criteria, I apologize there are criteria but not those we learned about but political similarities definitely. Therefore, we would like to draw attention to the problem of the county roads and we would like to warn the rest of the ministry to provide the necessary support to the county road administrations, that, based on the potential that will be and which is in the operational transport programme, it is also possible for the county road administrations to go into a stronger reconstruction that would also follow the appropriate network of state roads. Furthermore, when we discussed this proposal for a law on the Committee on Finance, my question was addressed to the promoter, and it is read by three of this proposal for a law on public loans to the EIB. So we have a project to rebuild the infrastructure and modernise the system, signalling,... The pan-European corridor, a Croatian railway user, is a representative of the ministry who says that in 2001 a contract was signed at 40m euros, that it is now 39m euros and that one million euros has been cancelled in 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in 2001, 40 million euros were signed, 2008 cancelled a million euros, and my question is why? For what? In seven years of using one million euros cancelled. Obviously, something was problematic and was certainly a problem with us and I do not want to believe that there was a problem in the European Investment Bank as well as in point 2 of the reconstruction of municipal infrastructure in areas of special state concern, the user of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the financing contract and signed in 2003 at 50m euros. It is now worth 39m euros. In 2008, nearly a million euros were cancelled again. 917 thousand 988 euros. According to this, 10m euros remain unused. I repeat the contracts were signed in 2003. It's 2010. I think that the Croatian Parliament, we in the Croatian Parliament, need the European public to get information on why and why contracts signed seven years ago have not been used after 7 years, and in those 7 years or 8 years even some funds have been cancelled. I am sure and I am convinced that on this particular contract, a contract relating to a road renovation project or popularly called the Betterment that it will not happen, but we believe that in the club of the Croatian People's Party, we consider the funds provided by the European Investment Bank to be supported by all these projects in this House in terms of guarantees and necessary laws. But the fact is that this potential is not used as soon as we are in a position to reduce or better put aside certain funds. And finally once again support this project, support this program. First, among other things, the whole project and the programme based on previous experience have proved to be extremely good at least those roads that have been reconstructed by this system are looking at how and how all 6800 km of roads should be reconstructed. The very important thing in the whole story is that this whole system is guided by a very transparent and clear process and procurement and public procurement, by the very execution of works, by the control of works. And the third, not a little insignificant thing or rather a very important thing is one of the projects, a road construction programme where a participant in the construction process is not USKOK. One of the few projects in road construction where one of the participants is not USKOK and among other things, and that is why we need to accept it. That's why we need to support this project and this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54883	Thank you very much, colleagues. We have a report of an alteration of the alleged, distinguished colleague Nevenka Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54884	Here I am correcting the inaccuracies that priorities for this programme are defined by some kind of political line. Not only the political one, but you also told the political line. Here's my experience, and I've been head of the Zadar County department for 10 years. Priorities for this program, and we are users of those first components of really valuable programs from this is such that you as the head of the body in regional self-government, you must have knowledge, you need to know which program is being prepared and dared to define at the level of the county exactly what you want within the means at your disposal. Here we are in Zadar County extremely well done and proud of that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54885	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Tomislav Mihotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54886	So I think the best answer to a lot of these questions would be if this map could be available to anyone, and if everyone could see it up there more of us. Then we would certainly understand much better what we're talking about, and what regional division we're talking about. First of all, this question about the regions, as defined here. That was the bank's proposal and bank division. We've been making remarks in the procedure why it is. Of course it doesn't make sense that the Istra region writes that the tunnel is St. It's a deadline in the Istra region. We certainly agree with that, and there is no doubt that this is something that is illogical. But simply in the procedure itself, it wasn't a key thing, and when they shared it that way, we made comments, there was no time to correct those remarks, and that's how it was accepted. Therefore, I apologize to everyone about this, but regarding the territorial division that has been established through this improvement project, surely all parts of Croatia are almost evenly represented. First and foremost, that a good part of these comments, that's what the lady from Zadar County said best, normally because she worked with it, refers to it and refers to what does not belong to the project itself. The project improves the first order of reconstruction of existing state roads, according to the elements I have previously read. So all this about the Slavonski Brod bypass, and other procedures, they're investments. These investments could fit, I just don't know where they'd end up because then they'd get too much into the debate and the bypass of Slavonski Brod is designed and considered building it. Also, a whole series of these procedures in Istria related to connection with the border crossing is in the Croatian road construction programme, projected next year will be built. As for Istria itself, now in a few days, i.e. On Sunday, we open 30 kilometers of Istrian ipsilon on Sunday. It's another thing that's related to other projects that are being implemented in this area. We also foresee to build a new patch of Medulin on the Istrian ipsion, which is also agreed and agreed. For the city of Pula, the Knot of Sian, which is vital to them, has also entered the design but through other sources. As far as Slavonia is concerned, in this part of normal Slavonia, there is also Baranja and western Srijem under that name, but through the project improvement except for these two shares mentioned here, in the first stage of the improvement two shares were realised or realised, and Beli Manastir-Valpovo, and Najice-Bizovac, and Našice-Bračevci, and Čacinci-Donja Motičina, and Plepernica-Batrina, and Podkkalalje-Podvinje, and Vinkovci-Zupanja, and Chepin-Vuk, and Vinkovci-Tovarnik, Osijek-Gaboš-Jamina. So a whole series of projects are being realized in that space. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's in investment, he's not here in the improvement program. But we're talking in total through a 77-share improvement, so 25 that were realised through the improvement of one and another 52 that were realised through the improvement of two. And it's certainly kept maximum account of territorial division, but in the first place, normally, the elements related to the state of the road, related to their ability to accept an additional amount of traffic, and these were the basic criteria. This... The study was done in 2001, the first procedures during the improvement were done in 2003. [[You don't understand.]] And to this day we are doing a systematic improvement of that road network. Normally, the dynamics were in one part of Croatia, in another part of Croatia, so the projects were more simple and organised, and this dynamic was established long ago. As regards these remarks, i.e. HNS suggestion related to county roads and support to the ZUCs. We are first in the IP traffic, so within all these projects that we are preparing for international funds, we are working closely with the association... , and we accept their suggestions and include regional importance projects in this set of projects that we want to implement together with their grants to the European Union. [[You don't understand.]] Thus, this is also the part that is under way and that we take care of and normally help the bile reach these funds. That's what I think they are. There was one more question about what we pay the consultants. So within these funds that we're realising, the total funds for improvement, the services of consultants where it's suggested they're foreign consultants who come and dictated by banks, that amount is all the way up to 1% of the investment. The amount of surveillance is about 3 to 4%. Everything else is about construction. So, the vast majority of these funds, we spend the most directly on construction. Regarding all these other things that are listed in the Dalmation area, this refers directly to the D8 highways, to the Adriatic highway, to D39, D60, roads that drive and ultimately towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore these roads are covered by this programme, no other local or any other road. So I think I've answered most of these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54887	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates because we don't have any more club applications. First, a respected colleague, Milivo Schwartz, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54888	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, representative of the Croatian Roads, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the proposal of the Law on the confirmation of guarantees between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for road reconstruction project 2 Croatia B, so-called program improvement. In order for the EIB to start financial assistance for infrastructure projects in Croatia and private sector development projects preceded the Council of Ministers' decision approving the EIB's mandate for Croatia. It should be noted that the EIB is in line with financial institutions with the most favourable conditions for borrowing for reasons which ensure very favourable financing conditions without charging additional fees. To date, the EIB has concluded 18 public sector financing contracts in Croatia on the basis of 3 direct public loans and 15 loans from the RS guarantee. I think this bill should be supported from both the content and the conditions that have been achieved to finance this project. I personally think it's one of the best projects of planning, rebuilding and reconstructing public roads that's in operation, we've heard since 2003. I am particularly pleased to support this bill on the grounds that in the table from which we read of these 26 shares listed in phase II we have 4 shares from the area of Krapina-Zagorje County. It is the Zagorska highway that goes from Zapresić to Zabok, that is the road Kumrovečka, i.e. Dubrovčan-Risvica with a length of 10.5 km, that is the road from Krapina towards Valentinovo, i.e. towards Pregrad and that is the road connected by Laza, i.e. Kasina towards Marija Bistrica. On this side, if we see that we have 4 shares, we have to be very satisfied, but so far only one share of 77 has been made that was in the project in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County, it is the Šemnica-Novi Golubovec. But I must say that this is the best, most beautiful, most quality renovated road lately in Krapina-Zagorian County and all praise for that part. By adding that unfortunately one part of that road, which is at the beginning of Svaljkovec towards Šemnica 3 km and at the end of that road to a merger with the Varazdin County cca km, remained unaccompanied, so I appeal to be found, and I know that it is being worked and already projected, to find some other sources of funds so that the project can be connected. So, as far as the Betherment is concerned, I think we must be satisfied in Krapina-Zagorian County. I will use the presence of a resolute part of the ministry and Croatian roads here to say one more thing, and that is that we still have a lot of problems although praiseworthy highway has passed through the Krapina-Zagorje County and that is a big deal. There is still another pipe, which I hope is working on and that this Zagreb-Macelj highway will ultimately get a very fast second pipe to be free of traffic and high-end loads, which is the season. But I would mention one thing that is most important in road infrastructure, which is a fast road from Mokrica, i.e. from Zabok towards Brack, Andrasevec, Zlatar Bistrica, Maria Bistrica and the eastern part because I remind that road is long in the program, the design started, the building permit is ahead of the issue of the first part to the new hospital Bračak and I appeal to do everything to make it stronger and that all the actions that should be done further in order to achieve this project. Because the eastern part has, say, 50% of the population in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County and one destination, and this is Marija Bistrica, which is visited annually by the most people in our area, and the road is not to say very bad or not to use a more difficult expression. And there he would also mention the particular problem of road D 29, which is the road that connects Maria Bistrica with the north and connects to Novi Golubvec, passes Zlatar Bistrica, Zlatar, that is, part of the department for Lobor and to Novi Golubovac. That road was killed in editing that road D35, and there was major damage. We have already launched a specific action to get to the start of at least a project task and designing of that road, but an attempt at the level of the body's editing. This is the part, and I would also mention and remind that there is a certain agreement that the county and minister and all relevant factors in Zagorje signed in time for a parallel road from Zabok towards Krapina. I know that, in the meantime, we have a state road from Zabok to Krapina, but what is the fact that only in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County by building highways is the state road used for a short highway and the agreement is that the part is essentially to be run and realized. Unfortunately, it's a little stalled, but I hope it'll run still. And finally, to mention the western part of our county, and that's the problem of the road along the state border. It is true, the county road, which is the road from Dubrica Kraljevica Na Sutli to Klanjca, i.e. the extension of the road along the Slovenian border from Kumrovec towards the village of Zagorje Miljani,... And according to Hum on Sutla, I would ask that we try to do everything because we know that Slovenians have a very good quality, although very good road, and unfortunately we don't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to develop tourism and the economy of that part, I think we should do everything we can to try to do that. First, to put it in the state road and then to get some larger funds involved in order to reconstruct that road. We also need a normal and a combination of stairways on that future fast road, and we need a bypass of the barrier. These are the centers that are developing intensively, and without quality infrastructure, it is difficult to expect even stronger development or that development to remain in that part. To get back to the Betterment, I think it's a commendable project, I think it's very well run, it's very well realized. Full support and in some ways praise both the Croatian roads and the RES, and I hope that such projects will be implemented in time and that the next stage of planning of state roads will also be prepared. And I also support colleagues who have talked about this before, I think you should take it very seriously in considering and the possibility of helping and realising arrangements and county roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54889	Thank you very much, colleague Schwartz. We've got two lines reported. First, my colleague Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54890	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'll agree with you that this is one of the very good road renovation programs. .../ The speaker has been disfellowshipped....in the area of special state care, and especially in those areas that have been significantly destroyed by war. Zadar County is also a user of component 1 of this programme from which it was financed as we heard 26 shares of the total length of 271 km of state roads. And of that, as the State Secretary said in the opening section, 16 shares were completed completely, and in those 16 there is one significant part of the Zadar County area. Here I want to highlight the mergers of state roads with highways in the Zadar County area, so I will remind many not only the people of Zadar County but also all tourists to remember how the road Posedarje-Ražanac that led to Pag, then Maslenica-Starigrad are extremely valuable two shares along which, along with the good cooperation of Croatian roads and units of local, regional self-government with the participation of these same units, are restored many sidewalks, somewhere even cycling trails, but also set a network and disposals and sewers and everything else. Some of the shares are under way, this is our Zadar-Nin-Vir road which is an extremely valuable project and will further improve the quality of the network of state roads and connections with our islands. I am also pleased to point out here that there are shares in this programme B in the Zadar County area, which are well prepared in time and well prepared, I would like to highlight the special section of St. Rock-Grasac, 20.4 kilometers long we use very often all of us when the storm stops us from this portal Lika, St. A deadline, and it really merits a more detailed renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54891	Thank you. Answer to the replica of my colleague Schwartz. He certainly cannot count so much at this time because these Zagorje roads are actually for extreme sports suitable. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54892	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues think that you are right from the position that you tried to explain first to come into this program that there should have been an initiative, a well-organised service, and secondly, I think that the confirmation of all this has been presented is that she has been guided to worry about the even schedule of this programme throughout the Republic of Croatia. It's just a little wrong for me that this table that I saw and that map and that beautiful schematic display didn't have the opportunity to see everyone and if they saw it, I believe that then the discussion of colleagues at the beginning, Caina and Grubisic, certainly wouldn't have been like this because in that table I saw that in the first part of the table was Slavonia rather preferred than neglected, which I have nothing against. I just expect it to move towards the west so that what Mr. Vice President said in Zagorje doesn't have the situation we have. We have a beautifully arranged highway, we have to boast, but then when it gets down from that highway, it's a little bit worse, and I believe that with this program and other constructions and maintenance, we'll be able to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54893	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grubisic reported on the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Schwartz, to prove to you right now that I am not so exclusive, speaking of roads in Slavonia. I must say that I stayed 20 days and 21 days in the Stubici spas and traveled from Zagreb. A good part of that so-called. An old Zagorje highway that really looks catastrophic, I agree with that. When you talk about the first part of the realisation of the roads in Croatia then do not look at what is realized in Slavonia, but in total, so you will see again that Slavonia is in a subordinate position. I wanted to replicate it to you in fact, and in total, why we use the English word Betterment all the time, the English word that applies to the Croatian Parliament, we have the Croatian word for improving the road, we have the Croatian word for it, but we use some English words all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54895	Thank you. Answer to the replica of my colleague Schwartz.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54896	We managed to make Mr Grubisic a little soft from his discussion at the beginning because the discussion of both Huška and his colleagues who reported from Slavonski part shows that it was not exactly how it was at the beginning in the discussion of his colleagues Grubisic. I think that we are concerned and that we are witnessing it based on what it says about the even schedule of this project, this money, in the space of the entire Republic of Croatia. And as for that foreign expression of Betterment, I would agree, too, that maybe he should have found another expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54897	Thank you very much. Surely one program that has been implemented since 2003 means seven years should always be taken away, what is done, what is planned. But this is good as we're listening here today, we're all a little bit dissatisfied, which means we want to do more work, work faster, and that just means that we need to find resources, but also prepare programs. Dear counterpart Berislav Roncevic appeared for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is not disputed that Croatia has a very high quality highway system compared to the country's surface, compared to the number of inhabitants living in Croatia, it could be classified as the European Summit itself. The quality of the performance and the natural environment that follows these roads make them among the most beautiful highways in Croatia, we can be proud of it, it is the work of people who live and work in Croatia, it is an investment for the future, it is an investment that will certainly bring no matter what it is expensive, demanding and technical and financial work will bring improvement in the quality of life in Croatia in every segment. Of course, this highway system should be monitored by a system of equal quality or at least approximately quality system of the same quality or at least approximately quality system of these roads that have no highway character, but are equally good for connecting small environments, small towns with highways, because fast and quality transport of people and goods makes for competitiveness and these small environments that are not directly connected to highways. And that would be all the logic of the debate in this law. It should simply be supported because from the opening presentation of representatives of the motionary of the secretary of state, including the representatives of the clubs that I do not repeat, we have seen that it is a favourable loan with a longer grace period, with an acceptable interest rate and simply enough to say as a parliamentary representative I will accept that law. However, when I listen to the discussion of some colleagues, one would think that this phase and this contract include only one or two roads in Croatia, and that other roads are in the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Slovenia or Italy or anywhere in the world, because it simply becomes worrying that some colleagues are looking at regulations, looking at solutions or matter only from the semi-circular environment in which they live. Well, here's my colleague Grubisic down the street in Slavonski Brod, and he's just thinking about what's personally unacceptable to me. Although the secretary of state here told us that this nomenclature was created in the bank. It's kind of weird, and I wouldn't take it lightly, so it's just that negotiations can make things right. I don't believe that the bank in Luxembourg knows the very precise data and the marking of our road, and it can't properly determine the region, so let's try to make sure that this regional labelling doesn't further frustrated colleagues who are exclusively looking at this microlocal even though they don't see at least 10 roads in the environment of their work, then this whole program is no good, then this whole program is neglecting their environment, which is simply not true. And at the end of their debate, just in case some school kids were listening to a debate from colleagues, Grubisic. In Slavonia pumpkins is not the biggest mountain. Slavonia is called straight from some traditional name. For the sake of proper information, however, I did not report for correction. The highest peak of Psunja is the highest peak in Slavonia 984 m above sea level, Papuk at 953 m or Krndija with its top of 513 m. Over Krndija goes one road, it is a nasca connecting road with the Najice-Pleternica-Požega highway. It is shared in one section and according to Rusevo and Slavonski Brod, it is also in the program Croatian Roads as an adaptation of the fast road connection on the highway A3. So it's not neglected, it's just to want more, it's just to want as much as possible. However, let's be objective at this point it is possible and needs this law to confirm this contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54899	Thank you very much. A colleague, Grubisic, has twice filed a report. But it can be a replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54900	I'd like to pick up Mr. Roncevic's replica more than once because he's thrown out a series of false allegations. Turns out she's ignorant and it's Slavonic, unfortunately, because Osijek Street in Slavonski Brod is a state road for Mr. Roncevic. She's wearing a D tag if you know what that is. And I hope to tell you your colleagues. So, it's not a street in Slavonski Brod, it's a function of the street, but it's a state road. Furthermore, you also talked about a large network of highways in Croatia that are very expensive. Well, they're expensive for corruption and crime at significantly higher performance prices than in some other countries, according to tunnel painting. That is why there is no money for the end of the bridge on Drava and Savi, which would make Corridor 5C operational, Mr Roncevic. It's Slavonia. Not what you say. How did you even as a man who came from Slavonia talk about it in this way that you speak?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54901	Thank you. We can tell ourselves all that a little bit better. We do not have to call ourselves ignorant, because that is why there is an institute to teach, to correct the assumption if it is guilty, to say our opinions and thinking, ultimately Parliament serves. But there is also a possibility of a response to the replica, so I give the word to my colleague Rončević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54902	Namely, my colleague Grubisic, I know what "D" means, that it's a national road, and I'm not yet in the phase that you have to teach me that. To me, Slavonia is a native region, but to me, Slavonia is not a political programme. I was born there, I love that environment, and I will do everything in my power to make it better. However, I will never separate it from the context of Croatia, and I will also advocate the even development of any part of Croatia. I did not reduce my love for Slavonia to a political program, which appears to me every four years before some election. I was talking about the fact that in the entire debate, you've come down to parts of state roads that are close to you. There are other needs. There are other needs in that same Slavonia that you didn't mention, and I just said let's not look microregionally because it's not good. I repeat once again to you when Slavonia is really in your heart, not part of a political program to impress voters, perhaps people will trust you a little more.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54903	Thank you very much. Although listening carefully to my colleague Rončević, I did not notice that he had hurt the Rules of Procedure anywhere, but he also seemed to have listened as carefully to his colleague Grubisic, so he will draw attention to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54904	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I think you noticed the breach of the Rules of Procedure, too, because Mr. Roncevic listed some things in his reply to a replica that do not belong to this debate. I've been living in Slavonia for 51 years, so if he's that long in Slavonia, we can treat ourselves. And secondly. Yes, that was mentioned by Mr Roncevic, and secondly, Slavons will be able to appreciate his contribution to Slavonia and Croatia to the state especially in military trucks.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54905	Indeed, we did not discuss the dates of birth, but it is good to hear this as much as who lives where they live, but further follows the debate of colleagues Ivan Bogovic. Here you go, fellow Bogovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. So, we have before us a proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Road Rehabilitation Project II and at the very beginning to say that I support the adoption of this law. We know that the European Investment Bank, as a financial institution of the European Union, provides very favourable funding conditions and falls within the order of financial institutions with the most favourable conditions for borrowing. The European Investment Bank shall finance projects primarily within the European Union and then projects outside the European Union that have a favourable impact on strengthening European integration. To date, the European Investment Bank has concluded 18 public sector financing contracts in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which 3 direct public loans and 15 loans were concluded with the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Road Reconstruction Project "Betterment II" will allow for reconstruction of about 304 km of state road network in the Republic of Croatia on 26 shares across the country. The reconstruction works include the following main elements: repair of the stakes and facilities, repair and repair of the edges and banks, repair and repair of the ground stabilization facilities, construction of intersections, construction of bus stops and stops for cars and repairs of existing cars, expansion of the stakes, disposal, installation of traffic signs and equipment, construction of cycling and pedestrian routes, which will certainly contribute to the safety of traffic on the roads and the reduction of the number of accidents with unwanted consequences. And we know that the quality and equipment of roads depends on the development of a region or region. The Selce-Donja Kupčina road will be restored through this programme in Karlovac County. The need certainly has much more, mainly on the state roads D1 and D2. We know that although the highway was built, so A1 on the D1 state road was still held large traffic and in the summer season it is about 12.5 thousand vehicles a day. So, on weekends and before holidays, it's certainly a larger number of vehicles. And here I will certainly mention the need to continue building a fast road through Karlovac and a merger on the newly built bridge and also modernization of the state road D1 where there should certainly be mentioned a tour of the town of Slunja which also has a building permit, so there are all the preconditions for starting works and I believe that in one of the following programs there will be room for these roads as well. In that faith, I certainly support the passing of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54907	Thank you very much. A colleague, Zivko Nenadić, came forward for the debate. Comrade Nenadić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54908	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As has already been said, but I will point out once again, it was 18, this is the 19th public sector financing contract in Croatia, so the European Investment Bank, with favourable conditions, which is commendable, and the European Investment Bank normally invests for these needs in the members of the European Union, but you also see in countries where the European Union has its own interests. The loan is 185.84m euros and serves to rebuild 304km. It is important to highlight this because here we are all talking about wider road construction problems, but this loan serves for reconstructions of existing roads, state roads. And when we take that into account, I'll mention it, so I'm not going from my constituency, but from my county, because we're all talking more or less about our electoral units, our counties, which is logical, and then we don't need to realize that we're against others, but we just know that more and we stand for it more. In my county here it is planned for the restoration of the Živožje, Ploče, so the Makarska coast with the Plots because from Poljica to Hvar and... And that is, when it comes to maintaining state roads are the most neural points. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, here I would say there were some objections, not to say the pucks, that there is more to be invested somewhere else, so Dalmatia is also mentioned. I'd love to be honest with you, but it's not like that. We have a great and excellent highway to Split, to Dupolje, again I am talking about my county, but we do not have any suitable access from the highway. Neither, nor Split. Here are two strips, one Solin-Klis to Split, but there is not only Split because it comes out of Kaštel, Split, Solin to Omis, about 350 thousand inhabitants. Here we are, depending on one tape when we go out to Dugopoly for that area. And it's the same situation, but it's not so critical in all the other cities, the highway dates. Omiš doesn't have a date, so he has to go to Split to go on a date because it's supposed to be Blato on Cetina, but it's not a date. The same property to Zagvozd is no match, the Makarska Sea over the Six-man, the compounds are nothing. So they are not appropriate, they are found as they are, they serve and serve well, but they are not appropriate and of course they need to be built. But we can't solve everything today, this is about road maintenance and we support it because the loan is favourable. Every kuna in road construction proved to be worth it, and to all of us especially for the real sector, and I'm talking about the sea again, you all sort of come to the sea and you see how easy and fast you get, and then what trouble and trouble you experience in the roads along the sea and also on the islands. I absolutely support investing in all of Croatia as much as possible in road construction as possible because it is worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54909	Thank you very much. We have one replication report. Dear colleague Shime Luchin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54910	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague that we are all trying to look at this problem from our own perspective, or from the environment in which we come. We are often not in a position to talk in this House about these other roads, regional, local, and I am not going to talk to the unclassified, not to mention. Because I think that's one particular problem again. It may seem to me that this one would call them a certain force of regionality, which is quite understandable when it comes to this House. Because we're all coming from some environment maybe she was less present that we actually have clearer criteria. Let's just say that my question, me from all this stuff that I've seen, my colleague, is not clear to me why let's say that and that stock, and why not some other stock. I don't see what the criteria are. Is that the car number that comes through here? Is that an accident number? It's the state of this asphalt. So when projects like this often happen, they're not really clear criteria. Is that perhaps a financial reason? So, you have, if you have a better road somewhere it will be when it comes to Dalmatia more tourism and it will be easier to come, somewhere you have some kind of strategic need to have some strategic condition in some sense if you want a village to live or some subregion to live in, then you have to finance it. So it seems to me that nobody's smart about this. But it seems to me that perhaps in the future, and I hope that there will be more of these projects and that we will still discuss this type of guarantee that the criteria should be transparent to the end, that they can't be said in one region or if you want to force one situation or one subregion within one region and the other not. Here, and I think we'd avoid this kind of dilemma and competition where we're worse off roads and where we're better off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54911	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54912	Well, my colleague Lucin actually completed me, and I agree with that. I have also been more debated in this House about this problem and for, I also have to be clear criteria by which something is being built. So basically we agree on this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54913	Thank you very much. And with this reply to the replica, we've exhausted all the requests for discussion. Final secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54914	So I think I answered the first part of the question on my first date. But two things that have now turned up about priorities. Priorities are clearly defined. Priorities are traffic conditions and traffic numbers. Thus, through a heightened study that was done in 2000 and 2001, these criteria went in. Normally, they are relocated with all other elements that are taken into the visibility of the study and are given exactly the rank of roads that have a priority degree related to the restoration. We continue this project and realize it to this day. Normally, along with certain modifications relating to today's traffic situation, as the highway itself has led to some other moments. Therefore, I think that these are transparent criteria and that they can be easily monitored and easily detected and easily seen. And another question that was mentioned, and I didn't answer it on the first date, was the question why there were some undrawn funds left in these EIB loans that were extremely favourable. The first and main reason is that the framework to be signed in this case is 60m euros, which is the upper limit of the necessary withdrawal of funds, and depends on the competitions which thereafter come about the criteria of the EIB's percentage of investment in a particular investment. If that's 50:50, then eventually the total investment where 60 million euros are in the EIB, and 60 domestics fall below 120 million euros, then 60 million EIBs are no longer withdrawn but exactly as a percentage of the investment. This is the answer to why on two, three of these projects financed by the EIB's resources remained somewhat neutral. That's it. I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54915	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54916	5. Final proposal for a law confirming a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a road reconstruction project II Croatia B emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 548. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a Road Reconstruction Project II, Croatia B. Please include and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by the majority of 102 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54917	And we're moving on to the second item of the agenda. It is - Proposal for a law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II, first reading, P.Z. No. 396. Proposers: HDZ Representatives Club, HSS Representatives Clubs proposed this act on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the materials by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. In accordance with Articles 144 to 150. The Government's Rules of Procedure delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on War Veterans. The report from the board meeting you also received. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. On behalf of the promoter, Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54918	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After long preparations, this law came to the first reading. I thank the HSS Club for its cooperation in making the law on the signing of this law, although I believe it should be the law of all clubs, because it is a law that does not politicise, which does not enter the judicial responsibility. It is a law that only wants to give the victim the dignity he deserves under international agreements, contracts and regulations and based on the civilization standards that Croatia needs to take over. So it's about those victims whose bones spring from wherever the Croatian country is trapped. So far it's been discovered off the record, because it's not officially registered as much as 980 bone sites since World War II. So, this law doesn't get into World War II only in the world. 65 years have passed since then and we have a debt to these victims to give what, within the framework of the Council of Europe's Resolution, determines the European civilization standard of debt to the victim. So I would say that the law is primarily based on the 2006 Council of Europe Resolution 1481. I would point out from that resolution that we adopted as a state. Only item 12, which says the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, raises not only the question of responsibility for the crimes of the period of communism, which is not the subject of this law, but also the recognition of the victims of these crimes, includes the recognition of the victims of her grave. In 2009, this position was completed with the European Parliament Resolution. In that European Parliament resolution, I would like to highlight a sentence saying that honoring the victims and condemnation of the perpetrators would lay the basis for reconciliation based on truth and memory. So I'm undermining. In its resolution, the council expressed respect for all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes and stressed, this in particular points out that there can be no reconciliation, and I quote there can be no reconciliation without truth and memory. So, all those who speak don't go back in time, actually deny our future. Our future must be based on the future of the European Union at reconciliation, and for reconciliation the Council of Europe resolution in point 3 of the reconciliation can only be based on truth and memory and a unique attitude against all totalitarian consequences of all regimes, of course, including the communist regimes. In his 2009 declaration, the Croatian Parliament accepted these views. The truth is that we brought that declaration in the late afternoon hours, it was clearly intended to be far from the media, which is bad. And in that declaration, in point 11, we accepted the European Union's views in the formulation that it is necessary to give recognition to the victims of the communist period, the crimes of the communist period. So we have a framework basis for this law, unfortunately, this declaration has not been implemented operationally and has not been implemented in Croatia alone since all post-Communist countries. I'll just mention that Poland has such an institute to mark graves without any other thought, that other post-Communist countries have it as well. Croatia set off through something modified by the President of the Republic by adopting the Law on the Determination of War and War Victims of World War II on 18.10.91. when a commission is founded to reveal war and war victims, and then the victims are divided into wartime ones, quote Article 2 of that law by 9 May '45. and the return of the same Article 2 after 9 May '45. The Rules of Procedure, which also divides the victims into war and wartime, have been adopted, and we, the proponents, are that we should include war victims by this law, because war victims are not subject to this law. He does not speak because other rules, other international conventions, and other customs apply in war. Unfortunately, these are war customs that look to death with completely different eyes. For the wartime, victims of soldiers who voluntarily went to war, victims of civilians of prisoners and wounded, that we in World War II did not have the opportunity to place posthumous remains in such groups, we felt that this should be left for some other time, and that these victims should be given some other law and other honors. Just because of our local political circumstances. Therefore, this law covers only victims after the end of World War II. It's in Europe on 9 May '45. and refers only to those victims who were not armed, those who were armed and entered into conflict with the legitimate and legal authorities, and to those victims who fell in the fight against the legitimate authorities after 9 May, the then Yugoslav state, and the victims as opponents against whom the legal struggle against them was based were identified both under the name and last name. So this law applies only to those victims that have not been identified, as unidentified, buried on roads from Slovenia across Croatia, to Macedonia, to Serbia, to Bosnia and Herzegovina and beyond. It's about the victims who were killed without trial. There were developed soldiers in these groups, so without weapons, the 1929 Geneva Convention committed proceedings as prisoners. There were civilians, women, children, all of them killed without a court, and that's why they are victims who deserve to mark their graves as the slightest civil act. How many of those victims were there? We don't know. We don't know because sources are very different. I'll only quote a few. The notice of Marshal Joseph Broz Tito's cabinet, head of the British military delegation on 17 May '45, so after the end of World War II, says please inform Mr. Alexander's Field Marshal, etc. that Marshal Tito received his dispatch on the handover of 200 thousand Yugoslavs at the border. The second data from the dispatch... On 16 May '45, in the opinion of comrades here the list of refugees is currently inconclusive because there are over 250,000 refugees only in the city of Zagreb, impossible to determine the number because there are no records. [[You don't understand.]] And the scariest piece of information, I quote Alexander Rankovic in '45. Until '51. said Aleksandar Rankovic's policy on February 1st, 1951, as it were, passed through our prisons between 1945 and '51. 3 million 777 thousand 776 prisoners, while we liquidated them between 1941 and '51. 586 thousand, in the entire Yugoslavia. So of course we are passing a law on the territory of today's Republic of Croatia. How many victims will be between this minimum and the maximum no one knows, it doesn't matter. Honor deserves every sacrifice it is a civilizational fluid, without taking into account, without criminal persecution for the perpetrators, it is the other laws that are in force in the Republic of Croatia. This is why we propose in this law to establish an office with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which would have three tasks to discover the undiscovered graves of victims after World War II, worthy of marking them, to place a mark, and the county would have the task of maintaining such cemetery. Why are we coming to this idea? Because today's situation is typical of an uncivilized environment, not a civilized one. Those cemeterys are moved aside, when the bone is discovered, they're buried, they don't touch, we don't know what to do with it. Graveyards discovered, for example. On Maclu, and I've visited all of them several times they've grown into weeds, you can only reach them in high boots, there's no mark, there's no sign of a whole series of lattices on meadows in Macljah showing a different color of grass, which means underneath that's organic matter falling apart, the color of grass is different, the trial studies have found that between 15 and 30 thousand posthumous remains are undetected. The commission I was talking about, which was founded in '91. She didn't do her job well for years because she started exhumation. It's technically absolutely inconclusive. They excavated 1144 remains that had been in judicial medicine for 10 years. We only recently buried them with dignity and dignity in the village of Fruki under the floor of Maclew. It's impossible tens and tens of thousands, and maybe hundreds of thousands to exhume, let alone identify. It's the first set-up of this law. So finding and marking graves is the purpose of this law. Whose graves? The grave of the victims after the end of World War II. Who are they? They are victims regardless of race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief or social origin. They are victims of developed soldiers, old men, women, children killed by the communist regime after the end of World War II. It's all those who were killed or died under such circumstances, especially in camps. These are all those who were killed in organized UDBA actions abroad, so all those who were killed after the end of World War II or died in camps without the right to trial. It's a civilization fluid, and I think after 65 years we owe the dead a debt. The office is founded at the government as I said, it must discover those graves in collaboration with local communities, with citizens, with scientific and social institutions. The government takes over the financial weight of the arrangements of these graves and approaches at a rational level prescribed by the government, and the county takes permanent maintenance by controlling once a year whether these access routes are really being maintained and the cemetery is being maintained in quality. The office also raises the mark, the text of the label brings the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the label, so one convenient short text, of course in agreement with local church authorities, should be highlighted and religious. Of course, it must refer to the faith the victim belonged to. What else the law correctly determines is how this office works. The office has a director, functions like an institution. It has an administrative board, it has an expert council, and it can name different professional ad hoc committees that would solve certain localities, individual issues historical, professional, so all that cannot be covered by one law since it is a matter that is definitely so diverse that such professional ad hoc commissions need to solve certain problems that will be imposed here. I'd like to highlight a few of the problems that have been made in lawmaking, and we're making it here for a full 4.5 years, about some of the problems that have been imposed. First of all, who would control the work of that office? We are here proposing that the office's legal oversight be carried out by the Ministry of Defense. The next question is, what about the exhumations, the transfer of the remains and their identification? I already said in the opening part that it was absolutely impossible, even at small sites like Daxa failed to identify more than a third of the remains. And this is about a few dozen victims, now imagine a few dozen thousands of victims. However, the law provides for exceptions, especially if there is a reasonable doubt that a known post-mortem remains of someone known can be extremely exhumed and identified, but, of course, the consent of the relevant ministries is obtained. And otherwise, the procedure is based on current legal regulations. In the event that a bone is detected during the eagle, digging some foundations will no longer return and close it down but will register to the State Attorney's Office which will initiate the process of determining the age of these bones, the belongings of those bones compared to the historical period followed by the use of all the professional options to determine the amount of remains, so their number and subsequently edits that cemetery in a described civilized manner. What I mean to say at the end of this opening part is this way we owe our debt to the victims who were killed without a court. And that's what Europe in its resolutions, the Council of Europe, is very well framed. Many problems remain open and we are aware as proposing that a large number of remains remain underground, and the victim will not experience a justifiable localisation, which is minimally civilized. This applies to all the civilian victims of World War II, but we said because of the different conditions in which they were created, it takes another law that must be a consensus for all indeed. Also remains the problem and victims of the Homeland War that have disappeared. We know that 1060 more unknown places were buried only on the Croatian side, about 500 on the side of the rebel Serbs. These are problems that need to be solved and solved in a decent and dignified way, and it must be even faster and even more effective. With all the praise to those who do this work, it is somehow approaching in due time, in a year or two, and perhaps it should be united all one day into an institution that would care for all the victims who did not experience a dignified and worthy burial. But it's a topic that this law, and that's why I'm saying in the introduction, it doesn't treat because we think it's still political. Post-war victims can't be a political issue because they are the victims that were killed after the war ended, against the 1929 Red Cross Convention, whose successor was then Yugoslavia and against all the civilization norms that were worth it, and still today. We want this law to be amended after the first reading on the basis of your discussions, based on objections and beyond this assembly because this law should be as much accepted as possible by anyone who wishes to give its mark. That's why we're going in 2 readings, which is why we're going to accept all the remarks and install into this law, which is why I'm asking you all to get involved. We sent a bill to all the club representatives a year ago, so time to think was enough and I believe that your remarks today and in the next days we will be able to hear and install into another reading. Thank you for your attention and we are at your disposal for answers to any questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54919	Thank you. The committees? War veterans' committee, President Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Council for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament held at its 20th session on 16 June 2010, discussed the proposal of the Law on the Finding, Marking, Expressing the Graves of Communist Crime Victims after 2nd. The World War I, which was delivered to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the HDZ Representatives' Clubs and the HSS Representatives' Club. The Committee held the debate in accordance with Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. During the debate, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 28 May 2010. The intensity of this Law, according to the Proposer, is to determine how to find, mark and maintain the graves of communist victims after 2nd. World War I.E. After 9 May 1945. In the territory of the Republic of Croatia, mass killings have taken place without trial or mounted processes and victims of such killings deserve due respect, rehabilitation and the possibility of honoring them through the finding and maintenance of mass crimes. The estimates of the total number of victims are unreliable and range from 80,000 to over 200 thousand. Many graves are in the areas of neighbouring countries, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Macedonia. The Croatian Parliament issued a declaration on the condemnation of communist crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia from 45 to 90 June 2006. For the implementation of this Act, it is necessary to establish an office for detecting, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after 2nd. The World War to replace the abolished Commission for the Determination of War and War Victims 2. World War I. The obligation to discover, introduce and mark graves, and the keeping of eyewitnesses, the number of graves and victims, is assumed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. While the permanent maintenance of graves is the obligation of the county. According to the promoter, there are some open issues that will need to be resolved, which is how it will determine whether the victims belong before or after the end of 2. World War II, which is determined by the remains of the victims from 2nd century. World War II and what with the remains of victims of Croatian citizens buried in other countries. It is hoped that this Law will be passed by consensus. In the discussion, the Committee members unanimously supported the adoption of the Law with the emphasis that all victims deserve due respect and honor because non-civilisation and inhumane killing is in the name of ideology of any. In the opinion of some members, they should insist on detecting and sanctioning employers and perpetrators of crime, especially in those cases where there are serious indications and knowledge of them. It also criticised the lack of members of the Board of Objections who expressed their views on the opposition to this law. It is proposed that a representative of the Associations of Homeland War be appointed as a member of the Governing Council of the Office. The celebration of June 22nd as the day of the anti-fascist struggle should also be reconsidered and thought of May 9th as a national holiday celebrating the day of victory over fascism and in the Republic of Croatia. Finally after the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following conclusions: Under 1. The proposal for a law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes is adopted after 2nd. World War I. And below 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54921	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? State Secretary at the Ministry of Croatian Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54922	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here, you've been given the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has carefully examined this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the adoption of the Law on the find, marking and maintenance of the graves of victims of the communist crime after 2nd. The World War I, proposed by the clubs of the Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian Peasant Party. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is also of the opinion that, until the second reading, two readings are in question, a certain formal legal and nomotechnical improvement of the text of this Law should be carried out in order to make it better and 100% enforceable. As is known after the end of 2. The World War, which officially ended on 9 May 1945, was the case of individual and mass killings of people, civilians, developed soldiers, the trial has not been since the regime at hand, and therefore it is absolutely necessary to support the adoption of the Law on the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of the Graves of Communist Crime Victims after 2nd. World War II because it's a civilization reach and a civilization norm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54923	Thank you. Two notices. The 31st session of the Tourism Committee will be held today at 13 am in the Ivan Mažuranić hall. The 54th session of the European Integration Committee will be held today at 14:00 in Josip Jelačić's hall. I'm opening a debate. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54924	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. One of the essential features of modern Croatian history is the protection and promotion of the rights of minorities in Croatia, which has been part of the tradition of the people who have lived with one minority for centuries. The exception was a short period of history during 2nd. World War II when minority rights were dramatically suppressed by NDH to the point that minority members were persecuted in many ways and killed because of their belongings. Over 2. The world war was the most injured by Serbs and Jews as well as members of other nations who disagreed with the existing regime, and after 2nd. During the communist terror World War, the majority of the members of the minorities were the Germans and Italians, and members of the Croatian people, unfortunately, are still underexplored by the episode of Bleiburg and the Crossroad, which has long been suppressed as a topic, and today, too, in some circles, it is often associated with nationalism and not with the terrible crime of communist totalitarianism. And she remains unexplored. And the extent of this crime is truly terrible and also unprocessed and unpunished. For the human mind it's almost inexplicable that a grown man for whatever reason takes the life of another human being. This opposes the nature of man, something deeply complains about him, that life is taken by people who belong to a particular people or who do not support an ideology is even stupider and more difficult to understand. Sadly, though, we are witnessing that this has happened and is happening. According to the Christian view of the relationship with the victims, it is the sacrifice that needs to be focused in terms of revealing the truth and respecting its integrity. Sadly, victims of the past are still being manipulated to gain some gain in the present or the future. In particular, in Croatia, some victims seem to have the right to the status of the victim, and some of them seem to have been denied the right and some victims are innocent, and for some, it is implicitly suggested that they are themselves guilty of being in the wrong place at the wrong time. When it comes to victims of the communist regime, especially Bleiburg and Crossroad, it is up to Croatian historians to determine the final number of victims and human disasters that have been painfully cut into the collective memory of Croats. The number of mass graves in Slovenia is that for those who claim it was indeed a real massacre above the Croats who are systematically banalized. Every victim of terror is the tragedy and shame of humanity. Every sacrifice should be remembered to gain dignity and not to repeat such a tragedy. Today, more than a century since the tragedies I mention here, it is quite unclear how that part of modern Croatian historians still find some justification for Jasenovac, Bleiburg or Crossroad. Bleiburg and the Crossway, but other communist crimes are serious traumas of the Croatian people, and until they are enlightened, there will certainly not be a step in the face of the crimes of their own people and no cleansing of memory will occur. Only language games will remain, games can be played by politicians and by various other aggregates of the given ethnicities that are already on stage and write their ugly scripts. Because of the victims of communist crimes whose bones are scattered and whose graves are unknown, the HSS and its coalition partners from HDZ referred to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law on finding and marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II. Croatian history marks numerous victims based on the desire for freedom and achievement of the goal of independence, justice and peace. On this historic road, numerous interests and events that bawled at the cause of a large number of victims have been prevented. As much as the victim of a soldier in a war is inevitable, it is so unacceptable and incomprehensible a civilian war sacrifice regardless of the circumstances in which it was created. This law refers to victims in the past, so at a time worth legal but general civilizational provisions on the right to a fair trial. Mass killings occurred in the Republic of Croatia after World War II ended. There are numerous reasons for the serious communist crimes of that period but they all share the death of political opponents because they thought and felt differently. They were killed without trial or in mounted trials without defence rights. All victims killed under such circumstances are innocent and deserve full respect. The Croatian Parliament accepted the European Declaration of Conviction of Communist Crimes, and on 30 June 2006, it adopted a Declaration on the Conviction of Communist Crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia from 1945 to 1990. A year. The declaration condemns all communist crimes listed in Article 2. Resolution 1471 of the Council of Europe. This implies that human rights violations differed depending on culture and the country and the historical period, and communist crimes included individual and common killings and executions, death in concentration camps, starvation, deportation, torture, forced labour and other forms of mass psychological and physical terror, persecution on an ethnic and religious basis, injuries to freedom, conscience, thought and expression. The victims of communist crimes are determined by the Declaration of the Council of Europe killed in the name of ideology, class struggles, and the principles of dictatorship and platariats. According to the declaration, their victim is the result of a disagreement with the criminal communist regime. The international community has not condemned the perpetrators of these crimes, as it did with the terrible crimes of Nazism. These victims have been erased from memory history because there is no record of their number, nor of the marking of the remains in their unknown graves. This makes it impossible to mark the graves of the victims and honors earned. Rehabilitation of victims of communist crimes is our duty, marking their graves is our debt to the past and to the future. We can't return the victims, but we can and must give them due respect. This law determines how to find, mark and maintain the graves of victims of communist crimes from the post-World War II period. One of the victims of the communist regime was Stjepan Tonkovic, a national representative of HSS born in 1892 in the village of Nebojan near Petrinja. And martyrly executed in 1945. For the first time, he was elected in '25. For the corner of Petrinja, and the second time in '38. the years for Petrinja and Glina, and in the elections they won 95% of the vote. On the day of the death of Pavel Radić and Đura Basariček, and the wounding of Stjepan Radić on 20.6.1928. Stjepan Tonković sat 4 places away from him. Because of his political action, he served the prison sentence of a year in Nis, 1935, and then a year in Sremska Mitrovica. After the end of the war in 1945, Stjepan Tonkovic returned home, although his friends advised him not to return for a while. He came to Neboján, where after a few days, Ubod came to him, took him to prison in Petrinja. While in prison, the family collected signatures for his release through the villages of Banovina, and his son, Janko, with thousands of signatures from Croats and Serbs, went to Tito in Belgrade. Belgrade has issued a verdict on the innocence of Stjepan Tonkovic, a national representative of the HSS, but the family has never received that notice. By the time his son returned from Belgrade, Stjepan Tonkovic was executed. After his execution, his family, HSS, and the entire Banovina were bitter. His remains were never found, his bones are believed to be scattered in the petrin field. Today, no one can know how many graves of postwar crime can be found in our country, or how many victims are buried in it. A large number of civilians, including developed soldiers, women, old men, and children, were killed in the post-World War II period without trial. The victims of this period include persons killed in communist persecution, trial, prisons, and camps. Equally worthy markings deserve victims killed abroad by the communist Yugoslav regime and organised by Yugoslav secret services. Most of these murders have never been investigated or recorded. This bill should allow all communist victims to pay tribute after finding and marking graves. It's a minimum that requires every victim. The proportions of communist crimes committed, and the nature of the regime at the time, are most clearly mentioned by a large number of covered and unmarked graves in Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. These cemeterys testify to the most severe type of crime, systematic mass executions. In the past 20 years, in various ways, approximately a thousand such cemeterys have been recorded and partly located. Most in Croatia more than 700 and Slovenia more than 500 of which are most likely the most massive in Kočar horn in Tezno near Maribor in Maceljska forest and Jazavka. It is estimated to be only part of the covert cemetery where members of the defeated Croatian, Slovenian, Montenegrin and German armies, as well as numerous Croatian and other national civilians, were killed in the first year of the war. Mass graves were often destroyed and destroyed, turned into dumps like Husa's pit near Sinj and covered up in various ways so the victims and their graves simply didn't exist. Families killed if they knew or assumed where the cemetery was located were not allowed to visit or mark them. Yet, neither the fear of the regime nor the flow of the decade suppressed that sacrifice in their relatives or friends, but neither the still frightened witnesses nor the perpetrator of the crime. In the HSS, we believe that it is necessary to identify all these cemetery sites, mark them with an appropriate mention of the features, and enable funeral rituals to be maintained by all religions, and to demonstrate piety to victims. Families should be allowed to live up to their grief over the loss of their fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, sons and daughters who could not survive because of the uncertainty about the place and the time of execution, because of the conspiracy to keep quiet about the crime and the ban on the very mention of the tired. This law raises the voice against totalitarianism, especially against the concealment and relativisation of terrible communist crimes whose consequences we still feel. Today, particularly dangerous negationism is present in the Croatian Yugoslav electricity, still strong, if not dominant in certain institutions, but also in some media. Negativeism is an attempt to deny the crimes of fascism and deny the crimes of communism. One and the other negatives lead to the secondary victim's victim's victim's victim's secondary victim's victim's foreign and Christianity's common sense. At the social level, this Stigmatisation aims to hide criminals on the one hand and to prevent the development of the sovereignty of the people on the other hand. Communist crimes are known for their ideological hatred and unrecognized ethnic investigations. We want to point out by this law that every human person has the right to human dignity even after death because it is a fundamental ethical principle. In order to end the demeaning and silence of these unrecognized victims of war and porn and to allow for the right to the public and the pedagogy, an objective and complete study of these war crimes and crimes against humanity is needed, historical facts need to be established and paedagogy of reconciliation and forgiveness based on them. The HSS representative club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54925	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54926	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is the end of World War II, and the next period marked almost all the sites created during World War II, created and liquidated in camps. So countless monuments have emerged throughout the former Yugoslavia. At the end of World War II, however, a mass liquidation of all what the victorious army, called the then People's Liberation Army, thought to be a threat to them. So it's been formed and OZNA, I mean signifying the protection of the people, and OZNA has just organized mass liquidation. It was not known what to do with the prisoners, so many of these prisoners were liquidated on the spot, so we know the paths that went, we know the surrounding area, we now know the forests in which both Slovenia and Croatia and Bleiburg were shot down, so we have a huge number of victims outside of Croatia. But the cross road that the defeated army took, and not only the defeated army, but all those who found themselves there, so there were both women and children and old men who knew which ways he was going, and today it is known and fortunately there are still living witnesses who talk about it. I think the formation of this office that we demand is relatively late now, but fortunately we all know, we do know someone who remembers those times, and we're lucky that the criminals who were mass-killing after the '45s simply couldn't stand it, so in their memoirs they described it by thanking how many people were liquidated and how many people needed to be liquidated in a short time. Of course, Joseph Broz Tito also took advantage of the opportunity he received, and he was given a hint that in a short time without any sanctions, he could liquidate a large number of people and it was done in great style. So the mass murderers of that time were not punished, the cemetery was not marked, and there were them everywhere. It wasn't just the winding-up on these big sites, but I think the most we could talk about is our speleologists, namely there's no pit in Croatia where they haven't found skeletons anywhere. It's not just Jazovka, it's not a cave or a well better said over the Vran Lake where they were thrown and alive and dead, watered, burned, bombs were dropped after them. So it's seen by the human remains that actually many of them are thrown away, buried alive. So, terrible torture, terrible revenge. But who suffered everything? Many of them suffered, as Stipe Mesic would say, that they should have been liquidated, and he thinks that for almost everyone who has been liquidated, those who were not really guilty were killed. I know here I can tell in Virovitica one night was picked up, clearly after the end of the war 200 young people and were liquidated in a hurry, among them unfortunately my two uncles, that their grave was not known anywhere. In fact, he didn't know, it was known that it was based on a later barracks, that no one had access, that only the bravest here and there risked their head going to light a candle, and those were exactly the winding-ups. Everyone remembers people who walked the streets after World War II and pointed at the finger to be liquidated. Whether he was in a fight with them, any reason, the reason doesn't matter, but the liquidations have been done pretty well. So, the cemetery was all over the crossroad or the crossroads, the columns were separated to cover their tracks, the powerless were the first to be killed, and those thought that one day might be avenged in some way were also taken away with pleasure. And it wasn't just being liquidated in the woods, by the caves, here in the center of Samobor, a hundred meters from the center of Samobor were also after World War II mass liquidation, which was told by the survivors of the locals, or those were the young men who were forced to bury all these victims. You have this very well described in the book Samobor-small Bleiburg where the area of Samobor and the area of St. Sunday is described as also a place where unfortunately there are numerous sites. We've marked some of those sites. I have to say, clearly there's been no digging, it's not because it's very hard to make any identification, and it seems to me that even this law won't be possible because time has passed. They survived, some relatives survived, some didn't. I mean it would be a job with one job that would be almost impossible to do. But it's not impossible to make, mark your own sites. It's possible to place a record anywhere, a board, a cross perhaps even write here and here so many people were killed or about so many people were killed here by people who were civilians, who were killed without trial, which in my whole story I mean really even more, an even bigger crime. So, they only got killed because they had no more weapons, they couldn't defend themselves, and that's why they bothered or posed a potential threat. Because we're not talking about the tombs of the army, or the Dombrani army, so all those who died in the war. It's neat, here's Vicko Krstulovic I read here lets you liquidate all these cemeteries such as the Preorana and other cemeteries, like all the places some are completely missing, over-roasted, destroyed, destroyed. So, some places are gone and there's no more, but the baby's gonna be like that and I think we'd envy this one later and the red cameras out there on those mass liquidations. We have a duty to remind ourselves, however, of all those who have suffered as victims, so the victims after the war, the victims without trial, the victims who have been liquidated just because they've bothered someone, and I think this office should do it. Of course it's a long job, that it's a job that will last, that it won't be, that I think here or the trial of all these criminals who participated. In fact, hundreds of thousands of people couldn't kill five, six or ten people. It was killed in various ways, so similar to the camps we condemned, which the antifascism had won in good fortune. But criminals walked freely, walking perhaps some of today's uplifted heads, boasting that it was just the ones who took part in it. However, the time is here and the Homeland War has contributed to the reconciliation of all that the children of both both third and third and fourths can mention as many of us as we have and the different directions of the army together have voted the Croatian state, together they have defended the Croatian state and I think we have skipped it for 10 years and more that we really haven't had this topic in principle. But now we have to do it in peace. In fact, we have to look into the eyes of all those, all the descendants here who have lost their fathers, grandfathers, and grandfathers, today, even their great-grandfathers, and if only I could say yes, they were killed. A lot of people know if it was someone's fault, it wasn't their fault. But they died without trial, and they only got killed because they thought otherwise. The HDZ Club will normally support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54927	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54928	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here in one not so long ago, Mrs. Kosor in this assembly, Mrs. Kosor replied that HDZ has no problem with antifascism. And then I sort of answered her that it was definitely true, because anti-fascists have been having problems with HDZ for 20 years. Behold, gentlemen, this conclusion signed by the chairman of the Committee on War Veterans, Mr. Josip Djakic. And here, on the other hand, Mr. Djakic and that committee conclude among other things. The celebration of June 22nd as the day of the anti-fascist struggle should also be reconsidered and thought of May 9th as a state holiday celebrating the day of victory over fascism and in the Republic of Croatia. So much for that dignity that Mr. Hebrang spoke of earlier, so much for the truth, so much for the memory that was mentioned here, so much for reconciliation. This is one exclusively pair of excellent probably unmarked I would say perhaps not even in this term of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, it all started with that monstrous thesis that NDH was also the pursuit of Croatian peoples. Croatia has been the pursuit of the Croatian people, but NDH has never been the focus of the Croatian people. She was a puppet, she was a criminal, Quislin, traitor, and so on. State. And the fact is also that without the Partisan movement, so if you want the communists then, because never one River, Istria, etc. The islands of Zadar would not be part of Croatia. So much the first thing that Croatia must do if it wants to call for anti-fascism is equalize the members of NOB and Homeland War, restore the rights acquired for not knowing the 40 thousand remaining NOB participants themselves. Without that I say even this power has nothing to call for antifascism. It is true that former Prime Minister Sanader did something to praise that neither the third-month administration was a staff, I don't know why to do it, he removed the Franciscan monument in Slunj, ordered the movement of Budak streets and so on. However, it is also true that no material rights to NOBA fighters have been returned as none likely to bring down a Partisan monument since '91. It's not refurbished here. To go back specifically to this law. I don't think this law can only extend to the period after 9.5. '45. A year. Absolutely every innocent victim should be rehabilitated, be Christianly buried and be mourned. But gentlemen should also tell the truth that this NDH army fought against Partisans until 15.5.'45. You all know the war ended 9.5. How many were killed from 9 to 15. Did Tito know about the Crossroads? Of course it is. How many were killed? Not 200000, but somewhere around 55,000 per Gervic which is a huge number of why someone should have answered, did Tito order retribution possible, even though I listened to Tudjman who concluded otherwise. Did they ask for the military's capitulation? They did. Did they want to surrender? No, I don't. Already, with the help of some third parties, they likely wanted a new political turn in these areas. This, however, is certainly no reason for anyone to be innocently liquidated or innocently liquidated. But do you also know who led that NDH army towards Bleiburg? It was led by Max Luburic, the commander of all conferences on the ground of the then NDH. The greatest executioner some unfortunately admire today and even sing to. Would he ever surrender? No, you wouldn't. There's no dilemma. After '45. A year ago, gentlemen, there were crimes on the side of the winner. There was unfounded hatred, there was revenge, there was revenge, there were women, children, many innocents, and that's for every conviction. And I repeat once again that anyone who is innocent should be rehabilitated should be mourned and buried Christianly. His grave must also be marked, as must the tomb of those who are in the foybs. But it's always the bloodsuckers and the clearly innocent. To paraphrasise President Mesic, he once said that all the innocent were killed in Jasenovac, but many were also killed on the crossroads. And while I'm at this Bleiburg, what happens there often and under the auspices of this House, I think it should end. We should bow down to the victims on the crossroads, but it's also true, and you know very well that no one in Bleiburg has been killed. And at last, nowhere in the world is the memorial of a defeated Quislin army, so it should not be done under the patronage of the Parliament or in Bleiburg. Bleiburg has always been used as a demonstration against SFRY, okay, SFRY is behind us, it has failed, among other things, due to cross-roads, for communist crimes, for war crimes, etc., and everything else. Cemeteries in Slovenia, Croatia, I don't know Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia needs to be marked, as much as I don't know, it's a good thing it's even some second-rate question, whether it should be renovated those 3,000 destroyed Partisan monuments since '91. To this day? I would. When are they down? I've said mostly since '91. until 2000, but there were a lot of those who were destroyed and after that, and that's one gentleman of civilization... Why? [[You don't understand.]] Are we also going to mark the injuries of the Rabbit family, the unionist Milan Krinokuće if I'm not mistaken, the papal field, Laura,... , camps in BiH, each victim should be marked as well. [[You don't understand.]] To be clear, Croatia was absolutely going back to '91 now. The victim of aggression, it's not controversial, those who ordered that aggression clearly have to answer so that no one would call me now, but to return to this side of paragraph 6, where it's about 150 and more thousands of victims, which doesn't suit the truth. It's also true that no one was responsible for communist crimes for the same crime. The truth is that crime is a crime no matter who committed it, whether it was committed by communists, fascists, Nazis, Serbs, Croats, Bosniaks, Istrians, I don't know who, but it's also a crime to falsify numbers, it's not true that the victims of a communist crime are here in this second paragraph, etc., let's not quote now I don't have time. They were killed clearly and in the name of ideology, but also revenge for the crimes of Jasenovac, because of the war after the war were also killed, clearly I do not justify that the the thesis of President Mesic should, I do not know how he said that revenge was so somehow, that it should not be understood, not that it is not understood, for any murder there is no understanding, especially of the elderly, women, children, innocent people, but also all those who ended up in those caves were not innocent and I am so surprised to see Mr Josipovic who expressed faith at one point that he will visit Bleiburg and I am glad that there are not representatives of SABA, because it should not be as I said to commemorate those who were defeated in World War II. It is clear that this law, if it is written as it is, has to treat the foybes, and so there are innocents and they should be rehabilitated and mourned and those places should also be marked, there are also those who have buttoned up there and have committed terrible crimes, and today before them we commemorate rather than others. I won't speak in that confusion in '43. Or '45. What's been going on, but it's certain there's also been a war crime. On this occasion, when Mrs. Petir took advantage of the opportunity to speak about the representatives of the HSS, I will tell a story that I associate with the Istrian priests. We mostly talk about the injured priests, we talk about communists killed by Miroslav Bulesic, Italians from communists killed by a blessed Bonifiation, and should talk about it. Interestingly, only those killed by communists, not those killed by fascists, Nazis, Chetniks, etc., are declared blessed. It is not fair either, although I sincerely hope that Bulesic will be declared blessed very soon, because he deserves it, the church in Istria deserves it, as recently declared a blessed Bonifiation by an Istrian priest killed by communists in '47. If I'm not mistaken, Italian origin. Istria lost 12 priests, one blasphemer, two seminarists, one nun, etc., Rudolph Brnobić in '41. killing Chetniks in Trebinj, Angel Tartiki killed partisans, Šime Milanović killed by Germans, Croats, Emanuel Ongar Italians killing Germans, Gratian Zamina that was killed in an Allied bombing, Mark Zelka killed by Italians otherwise declared by Germans, Mirko Vekjef, he was otherwise killed in Dachau, Šime Frulic killed by fascists, Kazimir Palić killed by Slovenian partisans, Bonifation by Communists, Belusic killing the mob in '47, etc., etc. It is interesting when then the high official of the communist authorities in Zagreb, Comrade Mr Blažević, heard what happened, went crazy. Apparently, he slapped a party friend in Istria because it simply questioned Paris's '47 negotiations. when the status of Istria in Croatia to Mirna was to be defined territorially. I wanted to remember here, give these people a drink and say they were hurt by communists, far more, and so on the example of priests, German, Chetnic, fascist hands. Yes, it should be marked innocent, but let's not try to amnesty of fascists, Ustashas or know who. That if it did, it would be a simple crime. And Mr Hebrang, I would really like you to take note of what your club thinks about this proposal by the War Veterans Committee that it should not be marked on 22.06. as the Day of the Antifascist Fight in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. that it should review the celebration and the Day of Victory marked by the whole of Europe. If these are your members, which they are, then I suppose you have a responsibility for this kind of attitude. I also ask you not to go back in the '90s, let's not let the genie out of the bottle like in the '90s when it wasn't enough just let's say one category of citizens take acquired rights, I mean NOB fighters, but it went down monuments, encourage some ideology, etc. If this law has any idea to compromise anti-fascist, partisan, however you want to move, then that law is a fake. If he intends to mention the victim, then such a law is absolutely acceptable to me, although I know what he will be born into if he is carried out by individuals like our representative, Mr Djakic. And that's the basic reason why I'm up to the same reservation or abstention. And I'm against the county taking care of those graveyards, so let's do it, here's just one little nomotechnic supplement, let's take care of the local self-government units. It doesn't matter if it's about municipalities or cities, one word of the local self-government unit where the cemetery is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54929	Thank you. 8 correction of incorrect allegations. First Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain and I knew that today this bill on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of the victims of communist crimes will open up a broad debate and produce a wide variety of opinions. However, in your presentation, there is indeed a series of incorrect allegations. That's a big number, all I can say is, someone's saying everything. In fact, you said the liquidations were done because some groups that were hiding after the war were trying to make a turn, you literally said that. ... If they were, and there were such groups or people who were hiding it was their mere survival and the desire to survive those first days of war, and certainly not, there were some groups that they were, but the vast majority simply wanted to survive those days, and there was no fighting, especially when it was an army that had lost the war. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So she had no chance and they were aware of it. So it was just a simple execution, finding and executing thousands and thousands of people, and you're still playing with the number as if you're a historian, like you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54931	Okay, thank you. Representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54932	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It was nice to hear that the communists were punishing crimes, even if Bakaric slapped his friend over one of them. Bliss. [[Intruder: Blažević!]] I would correct the incorrect allegations of fellow Caine who literally slapped all of us. And one of them is the roughest one you've brought down here by fellow Djakic, and on behalf of the War Veterans Committee. That's not true! It's not true that that's the conclusion you've been telling us about. This is simply a report from a committee meeting that lists what was happening on the board. Among other proposals is the proposal that you made, with only 2 conclusions. One is to accept the Bill's proposal to find, mark and maintain the graves of the victims of communist crimes after World War II, and the other is all the remarks, proposals and opinions to the promoter. So it's not true. And it is finally not true that the Croatian Parliament is a sponsor of the marking of the victims of the defeated army, but of the victims, innocent victims, civilians and soldiers simply because no trial has been carried out, and as such innocents have been killed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54933	Third, Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54934	Thank you. So while you're already talking about who's the biggest executioner in this room I'm going to quote you German BILD from 22.03.2003, "German sociologist and scientist Klaus Jacobi puts Joseph Broz Tito 10th place with over a million victims after World War II ended." So not only in these areas, but much, much wider. And who's the ideas beginner of the death column, march? Is that what we should dispute about? So to whom Alexander handed over 200 thousand Croatian soldiers and civilians, it's all known. I can't make up these numbers. Imagine that today we are just passing through one law that would finally make these people feel the care of their own innocents.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54935	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is such a series of incorrect allegations in which I will look back on what I consider to be only the most significant, and that is the first of all, starting with the fact that colleague Cain said that nowhere in the world is piety... This was also about women, children, civilians, killed without trial, and Bleiburg is one place considered a symbol of that loss. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's much worse said here, a sentence, all the dead weren't innocent. She's deeply inhumane, incorrect, dishonest, and ultimately justifies crime. And the question is one more question, as far as the doubt is concerned, who did it, why no one answered and punished for it, and why don't you ask for the punishment of the perpetrators so that they can be legitimateized as one humanist, an impunity fighter or for the punishment of the perpetrator of war crimes. But you never called that very Istrian so-called. Antifascists responsible for doubts. Someone did it, they're not some imaginary people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54937	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Scissor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must say, personally, I'm quite shocked by Mr. Cain's actions, only to correct incorrect allegations. Partizans entered Zagreb 8. 5. In 45th and the Croatian Army and civilians retreated to Austria, and in Bleiburg many people, many innocent civilians, were killed, so the statement that no one in Bleiburg was killed was a falsified pair of excellence I recommend that Mr. Cain watch a BBC movie about everyone who ended up in caves not innocent, so some are allowing this possibility and innocent. It's the most terrifying thing to hear about people who ended up in pits, so that they're not all innocent. The very fact that someone ended up in a pit is a monstrous, no civilized society, that even a trial was conducted, can happen. I mean, this is also about those people who are after 45, so 46, 7, 8 talk about them maybe more than they are about Bleiburg.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54939	Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54940	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting my colleague Cain's allegations that many were killed on Bleiburg. Without trial, this is not an exact claim, especially when it comes to children and women. Your statement is the strongest argument why such a law is needed because a lot of lies are sown, a lot of facts are buried, facts must be made available to everyone even if they are interpreted differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54941	Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues have corrected a number of incorrect allegations that are really hard to count which my colleague Cain said, certainly and the one that he said that this law is exclusive to itself, and that the victims were not killed in the name of ideology. Well, I don't even know what kind of ideology you're talking about, you're talking so confusingly or you're still in the woods. If you are not in the woods then organize a symposium in the forest and sing that favorite "In the woods and mountains" and give victims of communist terror to the civilizational norms of minimum dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54943	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54944	Thank you very much. I'm sorry my colleague Cain didn't read the Law or didn't understand it. If he hadn't read it, he could have been looking for it, I'd have given him an extra copy, if he didn't understand it, he could have asked for further explanations. By your incorrect interpretation of this Law, you have caused a detour from the direction this Law draws, which is primarily not to touch open wounds, but to honor the victim. And you, colleague Cain, have opened new wounds on the bones of innocent victims, and that is your great sin, and so I would pray that you do not take him seriously and do not answer him seriously because he wanted to provoke this law to get another sign. This is not going to work, for this law says that the most careful historical order of Nazism is condemned, in Article 4, which is not the custom of the laws mentioning a lie, in Article 4, you are written in an infamous Nazi order. This Law has no intensities to reduce antifascism because antifascism is the greatest value of these spaces and world spaces and there has never been a problem with HDZ in empowering and supporting antifascism. But these come forward like you then cause the wrong picture of the Croatian Democratic Community. Therefore, I would ask that it be understood that this Law absolutely has no intention of reducing antifascism, as counterpart Cain said, that it absolutely condemns Nazism as a component of Article 4 of this Law and that the aim is to honor the victim who did not have the opportunity to stand trial after 2. World War I. If there was a crime in the war we all know from all sides, and as I said in the opening part of the sea and there should be a topic of some future law because other countries have solved it and we haven't. Your bad approach to this law is that you mention the terrible innocent victims of the Zac family, the Paki plains, etc., they should be given every respect, their murderers should pay on the law-based penalty, their graves must be honorably marked and this Law does not object but, in fact, encourages such victims from that area to receive their honorable and dignified place. So I ask my colleague Cain to look at this law on good faith, and if he can't do it well, at least objectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54945	Thank you. I owe it, I didn't give Mr. Dragan Vukic a word in one slip to correct the incorrect allegations of Agent Cain, so here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Caine, you said one sentence that's monstrous, you said no one was killed on Bleiburg, Damier said that to you, and it stays alive. Damir, this is not 47th, this is 10th, and please stop washing the brain of the Croatian people, read at least what Milan Basta writes about it and it will be a little clearer to you. You said Blažević was slapping that friend, you didn't say Box was slapping her. Damir, we descendants of innocent victims have forgiven everyone, accepting national reconciliation and the creation of the Croatian state, that you too forgive us for bringing down communism and Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54947	One correction to the presentation of Mr. Andrija Hebrang, representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54948	I just don't think I've strayed from the subject of this law, but your Mr. Hebrang are very quickly...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54949	Who blames Mr. Hebrang's claim that you're correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54950	I didn't turn around, but your folks got back very soon... HDZ has never really had a problem with anti-fascists, but many that anti-fascism in Croatia had a big problem for HDZ. I know this law may not mean to diminish the value of anti-fascism, but the practice in this country of seizing acquired rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54951	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54952	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So listening to this debate by Mr. Cain, I can say that for years we've been away from honoring all the victims together, thanks primarily to the policy of discord trying to promote ourselves here from this pay phone. All victims must be respected from either side. They must be marked by their deaths and should be concluded with a black red argument because it obviously opens when all other arguments are lost. I think there's one more thing to say here, that this is a law that goes in the direction of decent marking the graves of small people, who didn't really have much choice at the time of the big one's conflict. Just because Croatia was small in that war and for the reason of the occupation of two totalitarian systems of fascism and Nazism, and the ruthless Ustasha authorities in Zagreb, and then the People's Liberation Forces that were increasingly blushing as the war was coming to an end, someone in a village of colleagues Cain ended up where he was first, stronger, naturally under the threat of weapons, picked him up and took him. And don't show me the correction of the wrong quote, because you know I'm telling the truth. It is further to say that this is not about ideals and whether they were in the heads of some leaders, perhaps some personal interests, this is about the naked survival of militaryly capable members of a nation occupied by the Quinslin regime. Apart from the decision of the Parliament of the Regulatory Authority in the Republic of Croatia, which has handed part of the territory over to another country, which has treated Croatians with total unacceptableness with of course a generous property benefit, as well as the takeover of property and all without question the reparation for war damage that has been done both Istria and Primorje and Zadar. In such an environment imagine a colleague of Kai's 16-year-old boy, without school, without the possibility of escape to so-called. Free territory, although it was a question of what it was. Which one they picked up, recruited to the Domobrans, tell me what his chances of survival are in these circumstances? What are his options? Maybe escape from the army, risk desertion, which would mean shooting or hiding in the stables. And in the village, everyone knows that his father has a son and that he still has brothers and sisters, so to question his family, noting that there were more children in the families, so it means long - term endangerment and brothers and sisters. No case against the defendants of the communist regime in the last 20 years has been ended by a judicial verdict for crime and as if it never happened, regardless of the fact that there are still easy circumstances, which is that it is a crime, a crime and it never gets old. You're here with a fluent attack on the vice president of the War Veterans Committee who just signed the debate report. At that debate, my colleague Hebrang and I were on behalf of the promoter yesterday. It is this sentence he put in place, which has no intention of demeaning antifascism in any way, that people who gave the most for Croatia in the Homeland War have suggested. As promoters, we did not manifest ourselves on this proposal, nor did we adopt it. Therefore, everything you have said and insinuated is absolutely incorrect, because this proposal can be considered as a proposal, but it cannot be the content of this law. I'd like to say that too, colleague Cain. Forgiveness is a prerequisite for reconciliation. You can't call for reconciliation and keep silent about forgiveness and the need for the perpetrator to become aware of the evil done and ask for forgiveness. That silence suggests avoiding speech of guilt and responsibility. Every crime has an perpetrator. The process of forgiveness includes both the victim and the perpetrator. That would be the only logical thing. This process is also different for the victim and the perpetrator, and in this case for the families of those victims. In order to understand this difference, it is primarily necessary to underline the difference between the victim and the perpetrator, and primarily to recognize the victim, which you did not do, and especially from that sentence about Bleiburg, which is indeed a shame that you gave her here in the Croatian Assembly before the National Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54953	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54954	Long before you, Miss Pettir, I was saying that every victim should be marked, that every victim should be mourned, that every victim should be buried Christianly, that every cemetery whenever it was created that I hurt someone, defamed or offended them. As well. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54955	A fellow Kai's correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54956	That's where I get insulted all the time, and I can't even answer them. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54957	Do you have a correction to the incorrect allegations or not to Mrs. Mariana Petir? What's her quote you're correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54958	And I don't know how the Croatian public put it. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54959	Thank you very much. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a comment one. You can't ignore the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric, Club of HNS Representatives, HSU. You can't ignore your colleague Caine's Rules of Procedure. So if it's a correction to an incorrect quote, then it's an incorrect quote. ... Please calm down and sit down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The intruder doesn't understand. Please calm down and sit down. This more, your behavior is beyond any normal, polite reason. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54960	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with something I didn't mean to say, but the course of the session binds me to it. I will return to the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe mentioned by my colleague Hebrang in the introduction and I will say that I was then a representative of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and I will say that I was proud of this resolution adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Proud of the arguments, proud of the goals and proud of the debate. The three main objectives, which are not undermined today in that Council of Europe resolution. First, it was necessary to rehabilitate all victims of the communist regimes. Secondly, it was necessary to rehabilitate all members of their families and third, it was necessary to send a clear message to the young generation that such evil would never be repeated on Europe's soil. So that's three goals. We, after a few months after the Council of Europe passed that resolution, brought a declaration in this House on the same subject. We discussed that declaration for two days. My colleagues and colleagues, I was no longer proud to sit in this House, then I was ashamed. We took a similar route today. After an hour, we went completely astray. That's unacceptable. My colleagues and colleagues, we live in a democratic Europe. Fortunately, the winners don't write history anymore, the winners don't point to what is and what isn't true. That's what's important to say. The United Nations declared this decade from 2000 to today a decade of peace culture. For the first time in human history, a culture of peace is mentioned. The history of mankind for thousands of years has been the history of a culture of war. It's embarrassing, but it's true. In this decade we have an obligation in all ways to defeat the culture of war and continue for centuries with a culture of peace. Is this debate a contribution to this culture of peace? I'm saying it's not. I'm saying it's not. We can today and we need to talk about history in another way. The British are talking today about bombing Dresden. Crime. The Americans are talking the same way about bombing Tokyo, Nagasaki, Hiroshima, war crimes. Why can't we properly look back at our history, be objective, be correct? And the Red Army, colleagues and colleagues, left a bloody trail, not only in the Katin forest but also in many other places. That's what Tito's army left behind. Let's be realistic, but let's not argue about Bleiburg. And Bleiburg is not a black and white technique. There were men under arms, there were those who handed over guns, there were civilians. Therefore, we cannot put them in the same basket, but we need to objectively and correctly assess what was happening in history there. What are the main objections to this bill by the HNS-HSU Representatives Club. First of all, this proposal suggests resolving the issue of grave marking only and exclusively victims after 9 May '45. A year which creates a basis for politicization. The colleagues are very persistent with this stands their own round table. ... Namely, it's the same form of underestimation and this House and what I'm trying to say... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In fact, I'm going back to the fact that, in our opinion, the law applies exclusively to the period beyond 9 May '45. a year which creates a basis for politicising this issue and new discussions and divisions that will not be aimed at drinking to victims but again at ideological calculations. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] This has already been read from the explanation of this proposal, which says that, I quote: "the graves of the anti-Nazi coalition soldiers have justifiably experienced a dignified and civilized relationship and have been properly decorated and marked". That's only partly true because these expressions only mention graves, but not mention features. It is publicly known that these monuments are badly damaged in many places and are certainly not allowed. Strong ideological disputes, mistrust, and open conflicts lead to the fact that almost all of us, from generation to generation, are abandoning and destroying cemeteries, mentioning the features of previous wars, and thus showing the most primitive side of our customs that are contrary to both general human and religious relations. This proposal unfortunately completely ignores the fact that many victims in Croatia in the 20th century were left without decent features and even graves. The proposal excludes a military cemetery which is said to be dealt with by a special law, so it is likely to be referred again to a special office, especially the administrative council, the special director, special expert bodies, etc., etc. That's what colleagues and colleagues disagree with. Cemeteries and sites of members of national minorities who have been injured since '43 are completely silenced. Until '48. years, like already located phobia lists or concentration camps for members of the German national minority. It is as if it were deliberately silenced that tens of thousands of people were killed in camps in Valpovo, Krndija, Josipovac, Tenja, the Great Pisania, and that members of the German national minority were killed on the crossroad. The same is true of some 3700 civilian victims of Allied bombings and a series of Croatian graves in a number of Croatian cities. The most recent examples of mass victims are in Zadar, Split, Slavonski Brod, Bjelovar and Zagreb. For a long time, these victims have been insinuated under the victims of fascist terror, but we know that's not true. Communist victims are victims of the totalitarian regime. Unfortunately, they are a feature of an entire period during which human rights could not have been a word. They deserve our respect, our compassion and our drink and testify to the horrors that our people also endured during the 20th century. However, to isolate them now with concern framed by a separate law, and the other victims do not seem to be well mentioned. We in HNS and HSU would be much happier if the Government had responded to this initiative of HDZ and HSS by launching a comprehensive project, including regulations that would finally define a public and social obligation to ensure that all victims of three wars and two totalitarian regimes of the 20th century are respected and that all victims are provided with dignity both with a measure and good taste of arranged cemetery and mentioning features without political counting, sharing of disputes and settlement of some other political accounts. That's what a responsible government should do for us. Until this issue is approached in such a way by the HNS club, HSU will not support this initiative. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54961	Thank you. A few corrections. First, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54962	Thank you. Here I am correcting the incorrect quote of colleagues when they say they weren't all the same. My colleague, they were all in prisoner status. And although many today think that crimes should be talked about differently and their victims differ I hold that all crimes regardless of the time and space in and in the space that happened to be treated equally. But a crime in Bleiburg is a fellow real crime. Those who ordered or did so were well aware of the gravity of this crime, for nearly 50 years after that never and nowhere was the word Bleiburg spoken, and historical research was either heard or crossed. Evil acts either in one way or another, and without the court and after the war, there are indeed great crimes that deserve every conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54963	And Madam Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54964	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mr. Representative Doric said as if he deliberately swindled the victims of minorities and mentioned the victims of the Germans in Valpovo which is really not true. In Valpovo is built, i.e. there is a monument for the injured Germans, and the Croatian Parliament is also included when marking the victims, so we place the crowns there. So nothing really fails.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54965	And Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54966	A colleague said that in this law, it's not about drinking to victims, it's about fighting. We may have fallen prey to the provocation of fellow Caine, for that was his goal of provoking his exposure to the reaction that occurred. But this law is really about drinking to victims. That's exactly what we heard from the promoter. That's exactly what we heard as an explanation on the War Veterans Committee and not some victims sneak up on us. All cemeteries, all cemeteries, all mass graves of all nations and ethnicities that died after 9 May 1945 in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and neighbouring countries will be marked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54967	At 12 hours and 49 minutes, it is time for the hearing to be reported for 10 minutes. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54968	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we adopted the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Today's impression is that we are trying to correct the adoption of this law. Very good. I guess we didn't have any more recent, more important topics or laws after we passed the Constitution and constitutional law than this law. Very good. If it's a government policy where I'm a coalition partner, then I don't understand that policy. This thing is something we can't deal with from opportunity to opportunity and we can't deal with without talking about it first. And now I'm going to tell you why I think so. Our colleagues and colleagues living in this area are facing war after war, evil for evil, crime for crime. And if we want to see this fact in new circumstances, in a new country, in a European context, how to be bigger and more than that and, as Mr Doric said in a peace culture, to create a new philosophy of relationships with victims and relationships with victims and crimes, then in my opinion, it should have come with a different approach and with a different bill than this. First, it was to come with a bill of law that would have no nuance that it was a conflict between the two ideologies. The one who led the evil in World War II and in the area of this country associated with European and local forces were the Ustasha, Chetnik or some third and those who committed crimes after it was established, and did not establish itself in '45. Nor in Yugoslavia. It was established in the late '40s and early '50s as a one-party communist dictatorship, and until then it wasn't. That's what we know. Because in the first constitutional order that was established after '45. It was about multilateral elements and multi-party parliament, and the ideology of a party that was dominant prevailed and ruled out and brought down this parliamentaryism, which is a fact that we must historically valorise it, and we must not cross it. If the Partisan units committed crimes, then they should talk about the crimes of Partisan units. Ideologies the crimes of partisan units at a time when they were committed is not correct according to historical facts and introduces us into a conflict over two ideologys, not in relation to the victims as it seeks to be said here. If by any chance the situation in our country were such that we didn't have about 3,000 broken monuments raised in memory of the victims and in the memory of the anti-fascist movement I'd say we're the country that has the right to reach for this law. If we were a country by chance in which I invite you to look at these photos. This is a welcome to Jadovno. This is a photo that says welcome to Jadovno. And this is a monument in Jadovna. This is also a monument in Jadovna. And elsewhere. There in that place, and at the beginning of the war in '41. Between the ages of 4 and 8 months, between 20 and 60 thousand or 70 thousand people were taken according to estimates. It's not mine not to say which of those figures is correct. As a colleague here said in the replica, they ended up in pits, carp or I don't know which other pit. Why? Because they were Serbs, Jews, and ended up from the territory of the entire Independent State of Croatia at that time, from Mostar to Zagreb. Among them, 76 Orthodox priests and two bishops. Perhaps many do not know it, perhaps even at that time communists could not know it properly. At this time, our last 20 years have never been known, but I think that when we start an initiative like this, we need to know this thing because it's tearing down our credibility in this initiative. This is what one of the buildings or houses or barracks in the Partizan hospital on Peter's mountain looks like. This is the state of things. You can see something here that's been fixed and you can see something from what hasn't been fixed yet. And this is what the cemetery looks like in Partisan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54969	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54970	My colleagues and colleagues, then I don't have to talk about this. If you consider this irrelevant, I will thank you for your attention and for the treatment of what I consider important. If you're going to be rude about this, and then I'm asking you to let me finish and say what I have to say about the law, because this is not unrelated to the law. I wouldn't be here right now, but I would be with my students if I didn't need to talk about this. This is a monument in the village of Sloboština, in the municipality of Brestovac between Požega and Pakrac, a thousand 300 and some victims of refugees from Kozara, 300 of which were thrown into the well and burned in the church of St. The one that can be seen next to this, and this is the memory of the tablet that is in its state. I could, of course, make more examples, but I'm going to stop doing this right here. If those places are devastated, if these monuments are destroyed as they are, then the question with which credibility do we call on all the victims? Then the question arises with which piety we call upon the pate of the victims who have been forgotten was unrecognized and as Mr Hebrang here rightly said, treated as if they were not humane, because they were on the other side, other ideologies or defeated armies, or people who retreated together with the defeated army. It bothers me. Do we want to put one victim in one evil criminal regime into oblivion, and restore the memory of another victim, and we think that's just. If there weren't a condition of these monuments like this, I'd be laughing like you laughing right now, but when I go 26th to Jadovno, I certainly won't have a reason to laugh. Just as I won't have 20 on this Sunday, I have no reason to laugh when I go to... with the President of the Republic. [[You don't understand.]] But I have reason to regret listening to what's being said here. I have reason to regret reading this bill, as it is made up, in which in the newly established office representatives of the bishop's conference as if there were no others but Catholics. Representatives of the Homeland War Associations as if there were no other victims in this war, as if. Excuse me. We heard the suggestion. Excuse me. It's like after the war ended in '95. There hasn't been any more two years of injuries, planting explosive devices, and killing people. It's like those victims aren't worth mentioning. In other words, we are at the SDSS Club for the death of innocent victims who were killed by partisan and Yugoslav repressive authorities killed by direct courts, killed without any courts, marked the place of death, graves, and that those places are being held and that they are being shown pitet. But I'm asking you, can we work here if we have this condition and how long will we have this condition? If we knew this better, then there would certainly not be this kind of debate, then we certainly would not show as we have shown in the debate so far, as counterpart Doric rightly warned that we were unable to deal with what was happening to us, and we were facing a crime after the war after the crime, and we are still victims of it. And instead of being the victims of that, we're going to propose a law to show that we stop being victims of that we're proposing a law that still keeps us in such a roll. And that's why I'm proposing to HDZ and HSS that we sit down one more time, make a better bill than this, fairer than all the victims, and above all fairer to the ones that we thought of here. And it's been thinking about those who have been around for decades, and I know that it hurts some people, and I understand that for sure. And my position allows me to understand very well the people who have now answered. Whether I agree with the ideology behind it or not, but I understand that and I'm willing to support it. But not any space of ideologies, not any uncritical ideological use of the term communist victim without any restrictions on time, without any restriction on the difference between the Yugoslav authorities and what is called the Communist Party or communist ideology. I think it would be really fair if we tried to sit down again until the second reading and try to fix this proposal and I think we should fix it, and if, of course, we'll all try to do what everyone thinks is best, and then hopefully we'll meet somewhere at some point and say good we did the job that was in our soul, we did the job that was our moral and political duty, but I'd like it to be now if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54971	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54972	Thank you. Well, from my experience, I can't believe the statistics of Pupovac. Namely, over 3,000 World War II monuments have not certainly been destroyed, or that is just as true as when he said 10,000 Serb non-monetaries were baptized and he never explained that he had obtained these statistics. But what to expect from a man who, from this pay phone, doesn't ask the Parliament for just a few years to abolish association with the Balkan associations in the Constitution. It's impertinence in this House without precedent!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54973	Dear Rebić, stick to the correction of the incorrect quote. I warn you and everyone else in the future not to comment, not to make their views known, not to pollomise with the allegations but to limit themselves to the institution to correct the incorrect allegations, incorrect claims. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I was one of those fellow Pupovacs who was a pain in the ass while you were talking, but I didn't resent how you said it because you disagreed with those pictures or agreeing that the result was what you represented here. I was just worried that you were just talking about something that wasn't a topic. So today it wasn't the subject of broken monuments from neither I know the time of NOB but of marking the cemetery of communist victims. So you can go as far as you want, but we can't call them otherwise, we can call them
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54975	My colleague Bagarić just before, did you listen, I said just now challenge the incorrect claim, do not comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54976	Well, I challenged the incorrect assumption that I was indignant about it, and I resented the fact that man was talking about a subject that wasn't the subject of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54977	So again, you were not correcting the incorrect assumption but that it was, but you commented that he was not talking about the subject which was the subject of the debate. Well, colleagues, please stick to it. Well, let's not play with one all the time. An incorrect claim is a correction of an incorrect assumption. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54978	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect assumption that it is not the right time for this law, that this law cannot be appealed to the ideologies under which it was committed, these are inaccuracies that clearly stem from Mr. Pupovac's excuse when he said that I can't be or that it's not the time. It's finally time to pass this law to mark the victims' graves and sites. Finally, because we're the last ones in Europe, the last ones who make it happen. And it's incorrect that it's not ideology. The Council of Europe's declaration makes it clear that they are under ideologies and because of the ideology of communist crimes. And that must be clear and defined. And that's why I've corrected these two inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54979	Here's an example of how to correct an incorrect quote. As Mr. Joseph did, do not comment on the latter through incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Davor Huška, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll try to at least partially correct the incorrect quote of my fellow Pupovec, who critically referred to the globally devastated mention of the victims of World War II. That's not true. A large number of World War II memorials have been restored. He's never been devastated, no matter what the war is in the Homeland War. And it is also the purpose of this law and the opportunity to mark all these places with a unique mention of the features, to honor all these innocent victims who died in World War II as they deserved. And is it the priority of rebuilding the hospital, the Partisan hospital on Peter's mountain? I'm sorry I didn't bring pictures of the hospital in Pakrac and the hospital in Vukovar, so let's see if it's a priority to rebuild the hospitals in Vukovar and Pakrac, or if it's a priority to rebuild the Partizan hospital on Petrovo gora.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54981	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54982	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, that there are no Mr. Pupovac here, so it's funny to correct the incorrect assumption, but here it was said that by 1950 there were some traces of multiparty in the FNRJ, so it was said that it was not known under which ideology and whose order ideologically committed a crime against innocent victims. The other thing I wanted to fix, Mr. Pupovac, is about the monument. So you can see these monuments that really exist in a poor and damaged state, which I'm not happy with, say that one of the victims has been marked. So right now we're discussing today to tag and give the pitet and these other victims. Is it a good correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54983	In the first part he was relatively good, and in the second part he was relatively not good. And Mr. Representative Vukic, go ahead. Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54984	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm correcting Mr. Popovec's false claim that this is not the time to pass this law. It's just not true. Since we haven't passed a law like this before, it's about time. I see that I am sorry that the distinguished professor is not here, I would very much like to give him a book that talks about the death of Croats in eastern Herzegovina, here the name and last name of 423 people with short biography are listed, I would very much like to give it to him, because these people were never allowed to mention it and not to raise a monument. The time of the last 20 years is that so a book like this was made. There's no one from the club but I'd very much like to give her a gift if she had an esteemed professor and she could see a little wider on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54985	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang and Madam Representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54986	Thank you very much. Once when I was five years old, I didn't like a neighbor, so I took a rock and broke his window and ran away. I'm sorry that my fellow university professor, Milorad Pupovac, has now broken the window of a democratic debate and escaped. But I was five years old and I wasn't responsible for my actions, he's got something more today and it's too bad he's not responsible for his actions. But I'm gonna answer him because he's probably watching a television broadcast in his room. My colleague Pupovac didn't perform well on purpose for a simple reason. A fellow Pupovac got this bill exactly a year ago. Mrs. Petir and I signed it and sent it to the representatives' clubs, including the SDSS club a year ago. It was a year's chance to make an observation, to coordinate he didn't answer. He never wanted to comment on the law. He came here today and talked about everything but the law. One reason was to reverse the subject, another reason to provoke you. He's talking about monuments, of course it's human tragedy to look at these pictures. But for this there is a Penal Code, for this there are competent bodies that must function, find the perpetrators of this inhuman crime destroying the monuments of 2. World War I, and all other wars punish the perpetrator and it is the duty of the state to restore those monuments. Well, I guess we're not going to define that in this law, that's for sure. If the bodies of the state government don't work, let Mr. Milorad Pupovac encourage them to function, but he can't destroy the dignity of the victim who was killed after the end of the war and who was killed without a court. Second, Mr. Pupovac here points out that there were Serbs among the killed, Orthodox priests, and if he had read in that year, the Law would have seen Article 4 which says that the marking of the graves of innocent victims after 2. World War I refers equally to all nations, all nations, all religions, regardless of any ideological commitment, bones that you conspired with your plow don't know any more ideologies that's part of man, and it's a civilization fluid to mark that part of man and to say that there lies a man, traveller, when you pass stop and bow. But we do not lie to Milorad Pupovac but to the real victims who are under Croatian soil. Mr. Pupovac has objections to the administrative council, which has not delivered these remarks in these years, but today is also the time to deliver remarks, and we will do well to install everything that has been said in the bill, but it is not true that the representatives of the Homeland War are on the board, I don't know where that idea came from, that means that he hasn't used this year to read the law. And two more big lies, a communist crime is a multiparty crime. Any party could have raised their heads. So the communists killed the most, their most numerous allies at the time, the legal party, the Croatian Peasant Party as it ended, as all other civil parties ended. They're those bones underground, they're the ones who were killed because they didn't accept communism. And now he points out that it was a multiparty crime. He points out that it is not good to say that Yugoslavia did it, the word Yugoslavia in the law is not mentioned. It doesn't matter which country did it, the Council of Europe Declaration condemns neither the Soviet Union nor Yugoslavia, nor Czechoslovakia or Hungary. She condemns the communist criminal regime in this area in which she committed a crime. Therefore, Mr. Milorad Pupovac all he said was conscious, please decrypt it before you fall for provocation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54987	Commissioner Marijana Petir, on behalf of the promoter, also, co-proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54988	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, precisely because this issue is sensitive, I expected at least representatives of clubs to read this Law with due attention and to keep the politicization that we unfortunately listen to behind this speaker. I will read one sentence: This Law determines the finding of the graves of all communist victims after 2. The World War is not right for someone to share and say that national minorities or members of other peoples are left out and that this Law applies only to victims of Croatian nationality. We also might have to say that at first, but the topic is broad. We also received a letter from the German People's Community, and I'll read it entirely because it's short. On several occasions, I have shown you that in Article 4(2). Proposal for a law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after 2nd. The world war should be brought in the word "dead" in proper spelling forms. In addition, the Law gives full meaning because many victims of the communist regime died in communist captivity, so they were not killed. This refers to the Communist victims of all nationalities, especially the members of Germany and Austria's national minority in the camps of Josipovac, Velika Pisanica, Krndija and Valpovo and numerous national agricultural goods in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem. Also receive expressions full of support for your noble legislative initiative on behalf of the German Austrian national minority in Croatia, signed by Nikola Mak. We will accept this proposal and this letter with public support speaks of how truly members of the national minorities have recognized that this law really wants to place every sacrifice in the place it deserves. And what bothers me personally is that in a debate like this, when the argument runs out, it starts banging on the church. So here, in a negative context, the Commission also mentioned Iustia et pax. Perhaps those who have not been well informed should be told that the Commissions of both Croatia and Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina issued a statement on the victims and covert graves of World War II and on the right to the grave and on the duty of pedestals. Perhaps it would be good if some other commissions also issued such statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54989	Thank you. Now we're gonna stop the debate and continue at 3:00. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDSSB, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, after which the Club of Representatives of the SDP Mr. Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54990	Dear MPs and MPs, we continue the debate. It is up to the HDSSB Club, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54991	Dear Mr. Vice President and the other eight MPs at the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after 2nd. World War I, after 8 May 1945, the HDSSB Club will accept. But I have to point something out here because I noticed that the election seems much closer than we expected. Namely, the HDZ Club and the HSS Club were placed on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament of this proposal, and we had almost 18 years of age, we had time at HSS and in a coalition with the SDP when it was, this topic and this proposal could be put on the Parliament's agenda at any moment. Why is it not so, why so far it has not been solved in the way that the proposings bring it out in this material, it is now a different story. It seems that always before the elections, such a topic that polarises the public, which makes one of these divisions in the public usually go ahead of the elections. And not only that yesterday we had a debate and amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia were adopted, but also the Constitutional Law, is this not a bit of a depreciation of some of the findings and articles of the Constitutional Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that had changed yesterday. That's how someone said in a joke almost that the partial plan Z4 passed and here today we have a topic that, in some sense, bounces or is diametrically contrary to yesterday's silence, gentlemen of HDZ and HSS in a topic that was on the agenda here yesterday when it comes to the rights of national minorities and some other topics, just what I just said, what Mr Vinkovic said so rudely in some sort of community of municipalities in eastern Slavonia, so in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and Osijek-Baranja County. But to go back to the theme that's here in this material. I am sorry that there are no those who have shown in their discussions I will not say disdain, but rather a certain opposite opinion or falsified history. Here from the Croatian Parliament speaker although they are not history experts, and here I wanted to document them and there are living people in Croatia today who are witnesses not to say on the other side of the victim but also on the other side of the perpetrator of the crime in the Republic of Croatia after 2. World War I. Unfortunately, if the investigation of these crimes itself has not been deliberately obstructed. Wasn't it among those who ordered or committed crimes by either those who were close to the government or in power after 90 and 91 years? So why do we have a bill like this after 18 years? In the book Partisan and Communist repression and crimes in Croatia 44th and 46th document in the publication of a branch for the history of Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja in the OZNE 6 report. The Corps of the People's Liberation Army and the Partisan squads of Yugoslavia since 15 January 45th, although... the explanation for the liquidations but that was true after that date, says this: The explanation for the liquidations were, therefore, the reason for the liquidations was the position taken in Slavonia not only by OZNA 3 but also by other institutions, which comes down to this, without many scruples, all those we know are our enemies and who will be against us tomorrow. So, assuming that tomorrow someone would be against someone was enough to liquidate someone. How terrible and monstrous. That's how many of the heads of the HSS they assumed would be their enemies tomorrow. The victims of the crimes committed after the end of 2. World War I and I personally have a father who had been and who had just made a phone call and told Mr. Cain that exactly on May 14, 45, after he witnessed the murder of a whole generation of members of the Ilica national flag school 243 and today there is a list of participants, so the whole generation, 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th grade. Children from 15 to 19 who didn't fire a bullet. At Bleiburg, not Macelj, not on the Crossroad, they've been liquidated directly, and it's known exactly what day in the hill above Bleiburg. The entire Ilica 243 Domobran flag school. Perhaps many live both mothers and fathers today. So I'm surprised today's debates that may be going to complete negativity or minorization of the victims. Every victim on either side was made by those who were in power or in '41, '45. Nazi crimes, fascist crimes, or these communists. Everyone deserves a drink, everyone deserves to know about their graves if they can, to mark, to treat them with dignity. And what Mr. Pupovac was showing the broken monuments, etc. And as I've already said in correcting an incorrect quote, I'm not happy with that. But 45 years after the war, they were one, to say the dead were marked with monuments, and the others were whispered only. Or are academic quiet discussions in institutions, institutes for history, etc. In families that are certainly numerous in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and are left without their loved ones, this alone could be talked about very, very quietly and in very reliable circles. No one had ever talked about it in public, and if he spoke then he ended up in prison or in some other way being sanctioned by losing his job, etc. I was also really surprised by my colleague Doric, whose discussions I often respect, when he said that the HNS club would not accept this bill, because it should include those others. Well, aren't those who are dead here, too, part of the 20th century's total sad Croatian fold? So, does he deny that even these dead of ours, our dead are also part of the total mourning crowd, the tragedy of the Croatian people in two world wars, here was Homeland in which Croatia has indeed suffered heavy, difficult and great human losses. So if we're already in the legal procedure to mark that part, then why not let it go, why vote against it. And as far as I know no one would mind if all those who were victims of war on either side, any of the ideology they were to be marked. You see, in Spain, the dictator Franco ruled. Once a good part of Osijek's time after that, no monuments were destroyed. Let the monuments stand as witnesses of time, witnesses of the age of living. Therefore, although I claim that there are a lot of politics in the proposal, not in the content of the proposal. No, no, don't get me wrong, Mr. Hebrang, but in the timing of proposing this law, and if that timing has its own goal, and I've already said that I'm already amortizing the opinion of a good part of Croatian citizenship and the citizens of Croatia in connection with yesterday's constitutional changes, but also for the sake of probably recent elections, I can't say exactly when, and then we're going to go to a bill that will certainly cause controversy in the public and distance and polarisation of citizens, however, in view of both my family and many people I know and neighbors, etc. who are victims of communist crimes after World War II to be for this proposal. But I understand the purpose, purpose and purpose of putting it on the agenda of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54992	Thank you. It's SDP's turn, distinguished representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54993	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Social Democratic Party Club supports the bill, as the SDP made it clear after our visit to Tenzena and Bleiburg that we condemn every punishment, especially the taking of human lives without the right to a fair trial. This debate will be held as a member of the younger generation as a historian who during his studies with this very well faced at the university, through discussions involving students to professors I know very well how our scientific community was divided, but I will join as a member of a family to whom Ustache was in '42. They shot one part of the family, then '45. Participated second part of the family. It is immediately for us to say in the law, I will say that again from the historical aspect, part of the disputed article 30, because the commission that did its job in the 1990s cannot escape from the fact that it worked for certain daily political needs in the mid-1990s. So, the Croatian scientific academic community itself has approached these results with a lot of dubiosis. You colleagues and colleagues know that Croatia has a very long history. When you look at her history in the last few centuries she has indeed had famous moments and has very, very dark moments. It can be said from at least the 16th century to the 20th century that in Croatian case, peace and quiet times were often just a short break between really great wars. Looking back from the 16th century to today, 300 years of the war border with the Turkish Empire. The 30-year war in which the Croats were in Germany. A 7-year war, a war for Austrian heritage. Napoleonic wars where Croats from Germany to Russia died in uniforms of different armies. Since the Croatian nation actually woke up, since we can say that we are a nation and that there has been a awakening in the Croatian national consciousness, meaning since the mid-19th century, we know that tens of thousands of our citizens died in 848 in Hungary. We don't know the exact number, it's from a couple of thousand to a couple of tens of thousands. We know that 5.6,000 Croats died in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878 when Austria took over Bosnia and Herzegovina. We know today that nearly 200 thousand Croats died in World War I, and these are, when we watch military losses, the greatest military losses ever in our country's history. And we all know the horrors of World War II and of the Homeland War. The victims of most of these wars, except indeed Homeland are unmarked. The first World War I will only be mentioned to you for one thing, he had huge military losses and almost certainly every MP in this House and almost every family in the Republic of Croatia had one member who died in that war and we can freely say that the vast majority of citizens no longer know who their ancestors died. Why am I telling you this? Because historical science has come to know the term of historical oblivion. Two generations, top of chapter three, and we'll face historical oblivion. World War II, unlike World War I, was primarily a war against civilians. It simply shows general, unfortunately, statistics, the black statistics of the war itself. Croats, Serbs, Jews, Roma, were killed in Croatia, primarily civilians. They killed Ustashas, killed Chetniks, killed Germans, killed partisans. We had almost today's unimaginable alliances, but they happened where under German pasture Ustasha and Chetniks formed a common alliance against Croats, anti-fascists in the Imot region. And that's what happened. A little bit of World War II is black or white, because absolutely the biggest victims were still civilians. And that's where I end up with this historic one. Now from the point of view of 2010, I will tell you only what we in the SDP club consider our duty here in the Croatian Parliament, our civilization role. A) not to let such horrors ever happen again, to rehabilitate all innocent victims of all nationalities, to inculcate our children's civilizational moral values and turn them to a common future, not ideology. Let's not let one of Jasen's, one of the Heavy and all the strategists, regardless of the people who lie there and their nationality go into historical oblivion. We can't let that happen. Not to allow a turn of antifascism is the civilizational fluid of the Republic of Croatia and of course, to create a framework devoid of any policy in which our scientific community, primarily I think of historians, professionally and objectively doing the job of finding and marking the cemetery, that these cemeterys are a place of pitet, not a place of grandeur of different totalitarian regimes created in this area by one Adolf Hitler. Also, it cannot allow itself to bid on the number of victims again of all nationalities. And most importantly, that victims are not used, that victims are not covered for day-to-day political events and bickering because in this way we insult only the victim, share society and damage the future of our children. Finally, the least we need in Croatia in 2010 at the moment of a major crisis when people lose jobs, when our parts of the system collapse and when many people don't see their future, the least we need is a new division around '45. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54994	I thank you for this inspired speech. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Daniel Srb. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And another respected representative is Nenad Stazic. He's gone. And he's losing his right to debate. Does the Proposer want it? Yeah. On behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative and president of the HDZ Club, Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased that the debate ended in a very constructive and reasoned way, unlike some aggressive and politically unwitting debates in the middle of the debate itself. What we would really like in this law is to be a consensus on both the left and the right. And I'm really glad that my colleague Mondekar told a few of the greatest truths, and that the truth is that we owe our generation a safe, peaceful future, that we can only do that if we look at the victim with a pite, if we don't politicize it, and if we don't produce it for the victim's further division. And that's what my colleague Mondekar, who really is the motto of this law and the inspiration of this law, was and I'm sorry that some have strayed from that path. It is certainly only one thing, that if we realize the idea of this law that it is the beginning of a real and total reconciliation that the Croatian society needs, because the division that is deep, which is fierce, makes it impossible to spend energy in what is positive, which is prosperous. And therefore, I ask all MPs to make their remarks and not only representatives but also beyond that to correct what is yet to be corrected in this law. I think this article 30, colleague Mondekar he's just saying he's going to take over an existing archive because she's standing in Parliament and no one needs her. We're not gonna keep going that way, there's no exhumation, no politicization, there's no division of victims, we're just gonna use that archive to find these sites. So, as much as I can participate in any form in the work of that body through any form, I will really always stand for it, and I think it is the wish of most of the MPs and MPs who discussed it today. I think we're sending a civilized message here to our children, to our future, to our past, and to the international community, because these divisions between us, this lack of insight into the innocent victim who was killed without trial, they certainly have broad reflections on the international agenda. And that's why I'm sorry that some, especially fellow Pupovac, deliberately distorted the intensities of this law. And I just want one more sentence. This law only has one wish, honoring the post-mortem remnant of a man who was killed without trial after the war, so at a time when the unequivocal laws and the civil and war and peaceable and therefore please support this law, help us to make it as good and as quality as possible and when it is in the second reading that there are really no more political considerations like this because it is not the intensity of this law. I'm undermining it one more time. The Council of Europe Resolution said if you do not honor the victim there is no reconciliation for the future. I think we're gonna do it with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54996	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54997	Six. Proposal for a law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II, first reading, P.Z. 396. Proposer: HDZ Representatives' Club and HSS Representatives' Club. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First. The proposal for a law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of the victims of the communist crime after World War II and any objections, proposals and opinions in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 93 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54998	Now I propose that points three and four are the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, to be united and to discuss them together as some committees have done in their debate. So I suggest you accept that. Do any of the MPs and MPs have a problem with that? There's no one here. So you agree. So we've united points three and four and the debate will be together. So, - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 560. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 561. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that these legislative proposals be discussed in an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee to both laws. Does the proposaler's representative, the government's representative, want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u54999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before I begin to explain the proposals of the Income and Profit Tax Act, I would say at first that we accept the amendment committees so that they practically become an integral part of the text. But let me explain these bill proposals. This is definitely a simplification of the tax system in the Republic of Croatia, one quite different way of accessing business and taxation. You'll see why we suggested that these two discussions go together, for the simple reason they're being complemented. And with the amendments to the Law on certain property tax models that exist in the Republic of Croatia, we will come to the point that we will already be able to comply with the possibilities because only by introducing the OIB into the grantovnica will we be able to talk about full taxation in Croatia on the basis of economic power or tax opportunities of Croatian citizens. So, what we propose to these amendments to the law. First, we suggest that the rate should be reduced, the rate of income tax decreased and the rate of income was different. So we suggest that the lowest income tax rate from 15 is reduced to 12%, and the two highest rates are practically going down from 35 and 45%, and we suggest that all incomes above 10800 kuna be the tax rate of 40%. I would also like to clarify that, in the public debates and performances of the past month and a half, two days when it has been stressed that it will go into the amendment of the Income Tax Act, on the fact that the abolition of the 45% rate benefits the rich, that in such a way the Government favours large capital. I'll just give you the information. After 1.7 and after lifting the first rate of crisis tax of 2%, when speaking of amendments to the Income Tax Act, we must not ignore it. Let's say someone gets a salary of four and a half thousand kuna. They will pay what taxes they cut 453 kuna, and for someone to get a salary of forty-five, six thousand kuna they will pay 45000 kuna. So ten times as much pays a hundred times the tax burden. And that I think that when I talk about taxes, then we can't just look at the percentage, but we have to look at what the basis is to tax. It's another thing. Is there really as much wealth in Croatia as some want to show, and now I will also speak these amounts that I will speak about, therefore, all types of income that are paid in the Republic of Croatia. And to those who receive wages and those who have pensions and those who have crafts or some kind of free professions. So, of the total of 2 million and 794000 Croats who receive some kind of income, only 10,000 have a salary, a net salary of more than 23000 kuna. So, only 10,000 out of 2 million is 794 thousand taxpayers have a higher salary of 23000 kuna. Then what kind of favors are spoken of to the rich. Also, tax reliefs that have been abolished have not shown effectiveness precisely in the case of lower incomes, however, these tax reliefs have not been lifted with the retention of existing tax rates but are the form of compensation and are directly reflected in the reduction of the first rate. But for your sake, here's the chart that's been using the most tax relief in recent years. They were used by those with medium and high incomes. Unfortunately, those with low incomes could not use them because those who had their personal deduction of 2 dependent family members were virtually not in a position to use this relief. Because their personal deduction and deduction for dependent family members have led them to no longer have anything to ask for because their full income was untaxable. What we also think will make the tax system simpler, clearer, more transparent, and directly affect the number of tax returns, their processing. And our assessment is that, with these tax changes to the Income Tax Act, we're going to cut tax returns by about 500,550,000. And at this point in Croatia, about a million and 200000 tax returns were filed this year. I repeat, with such tax changes at the annual level, Croatian citizens will receive a billion and 500 million kunas more than they have been in previous periods. And if we look at how many returns totaled these reliefs that were scheduled to be abolished at the moment, they were about 520 million kuna, so the total difference is a billion kuna will get more from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with these income tax changes. When you add that, when you add that the rate of crisis tax is abolished of 2% of 1.7 and 4% of 1.11, then almost 4 billion kuna can be spoken at year level in 2011. Although last year we said that the introduction of crisis taxes, which frankly stabilised public finances regardless of what we said about it, what we thought about it, but he fulfilled his task, but we can also say if next year, with the basis of a reduction in the income tax rate and the elimination of the crisis tax of one and another 4 billion kuna, we can say that this is a significant increase in the standard of living of Croatian citizens. We also suggest that out of 1.7. exemption from income tax and tax-recognized expenditures are treated payments, premiums of voluntary pension insurance by the employer, in the amount of 500 kuna per month. So you won't need to file a tax application anymore, book it to yourself, actually reduce the base for the calculation of income tax, but the employer will, at the moment of practically paying it, book it as his business expenditure and thus reduce his base of profit tax. We also predicted, given that there are a lot of cases over the year that people go to sick leave or for this reason not to receive one salary, that the employer during the payment of salaries at 11 and 12 months may so say make a tax adjustment. So he can account for his salary, and the untaxable parts that were not used during the year are accounted for in that pay, in such a way we will certainly reduce the number of tax returns. In such a way, we will get to what we really want more efficient, faster, better and more quality tax administration, with education of people, who will deal with the simple control of tax revenues with the basis of some new transactions that have developed in the Republic of Croatia lately, and also more control the acquisition of certain movable and immovable assets, and compare them with the total earnings of the current and previous year and in such a way to see whether someone has acquired real estate or movable property, whether it has a tax coverage, whether in the previous year with the basis of pay, some dividends, some profits on shares or any other form of profit has a cover for what he bought, and this clearly indicates that income from incomes in the following year, because if we only look at some of the money that can be reduced in terms of income, then there will be a significant amount of income from income, which will be achieved in terms of income. So much for income tax. And believe me, this idea didn't come by accident, we've been working on an analysis of who's using reliefs, why they're using reliefs, and whether they've been making it easier to read the explanation that the promoters were giving when they introduced in 2002, in 2002, and they've made it easier, if they've really achieved the goal they've set themselves up. Today, too, we can safely claim after eight years of applying these reliefs that they have not achieved that goal. Unfortunately, neither did they encourage the development of the financial market in the Republic of Croatia, so that it is paid into the third pillar of pension and that it is paid into this health insurance, and they also unfortunately did not use those with the lowest income to make it any easier. As far as profit tax is concerned, so by analysing all tax controls over the last few years, analysing where the most often comes from trying not to pay the tax, coming to the realization of where the government's biggest tax ejaculation, we have come to the conclusion that the biggest problem at this point regarding profit tax, and then automatically implements it on, has its implications for income tax, is that many companies do not separate private consumption from business spending. Also, these amendments to the Law on Profit Tax will serve us for the adoption of the Law in the 10th month of this year. First of all, I think of the Law on the Taxation of the weekend of houses, personal cars and boats, because for these types of taxes, solutions have already been issued this year and amendments to those laws are therefore going at the 10th month so that we can still make certain analytical assessments and evaluations and see which direction this should go in, so that it will serve what we want, and that is that no one will be able to buy any more expensive stuff, book on company spending, and use it for private purposes. So what we want to change in this proposal is to amend the Law on Profit Tax, so we want to make more detailed arrangements for all the costs incurred on the burden of the company, i.e. on the burden of the company’s assets, which relate to the settlement of private costs of the company’s shareholders, and related persons, does not increase the basis of the profit tax, because the same obligations are charged by income tax. Namely, it is stated on... the way it has been arranged, however, it has been shown in practice that there are certain doubts, and different application, different treatment, and we propose that it be influenced, and we suggest that in this way these expenditures are not recognised as business expenditures, and this will certainly increase income from income tax, and that in particular means unit income, regional, regional and local self-government. [[You don't understand.]] The new provision on the draft law stipulates that the supervisory procedure determines whether certain costs have been incurred because of the subsidisation and private costs of members of the company of shareholders and related persons, and whether the same are not recorded in the accounts as costs incurred for private purposes, and that the tax is not charged and charged. This provision is directly aimed at increasing the tax discipline of taxpayers, in particular in the part of the use of the company's private funds. A new provision shall be laid down where shareholders of a company member undertaking an independent activity from which a profit tax is paid during the tax period of payment of a dividend or a share in profits, and after the end of the tax period, the profit obtained is not sufficient to cover such advance or advance is not refunded in full until the tax application is made the difference is considered to be a receipt. In the past cases, it has often happened that such a paid dividend fee or a profit over the year, when at the end of the year it turns out that the dividend is not nearly as big as the fee paid, then that payment of the advance turns into a loan that is in principle never returned to society again, and therefore today, in principle, when you look at those blocked societies of 29 thousand blocked companies, 19 thousand and 800 have no employees. It was these companies that created certain obligations that their owners had no intention of subdue, but that they opened up a new company and continued to do business. So, if someone paid the dividend fee at the end of the year, it is said that the balance sheet says that they do not have that much dividend, they will not be able to treat it or translate it into a loan, but simply on the paid part they will be charged a profit tax and they will have to be charged. The new provision also stipulates that the recognition of expenditure reserved for unused vacations in accordance with specific rules of the Labour Act is required to compensate the employee for unused vacations. The new provision also states that the taxpayer is a recognised cost of amortisation of vessels, aircraft, apartments and holiday houses if it is registered to carry out the activity of renting such property, i.e. the activity of transport, and if the same... in the use of such property during the tax period achieves at least 5% of the purchase value, we will see how much more that percentage will be until the final one when we talk about the property tax, i.e. up to 7% of the purchase value of the vessel and aircraft. While in the case of leases, an operational leaser... the use of such assets must be achieved at least at the cost of that lease. This is proposed in order to prevent a deliberate avoidance of tax payments. By entering those assets into a company and with the intention of using such assets for private purposes. So it's not a dispute if someone is sailing, sailing, yacht, using the cottage for business purposes. Then he also has the right to all those deductions and pretaxes and excise fees and expenses over the year. However, if it is apparent that he bought it for private purposes, private benefits during the year, and books as a business expenditure no business expenditure related to such use will be recognised and the base for the calculation of the profit tax will increase for that amount. And also since this is the basis of the Income Tax Act, the income tax will also be accounted for in nature. Moreover, the new provision prevents the possibility of transforming profits between related residents in the event of a person having preferential legal status, i.e. paying a profit tax at lower rates or benefiting from a transferred loss. Therefore, the transfer pricing and interest provisions applicable to non-residents and residents apply to a company that is resident. In a proposed way, it prevents the transformation, i.e. the spillover of profits from one sad company into another sad company by preventing the intentional avoidance of income tax. So you have one company located in the area of special state care and one society located in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, somewhere else and this society located in Zagreb has a high profit, this one located in the area of special state care has a low. Since these are interlinked companies when that balance is concluded then this base for profit tax, given that there are different reliefs is far lower and thus pays a much lower rate of profit tax. The new provision also stipulates that the legal sequence ceases the right to transfer the tax loss if the legal sequence has not carried out its activity for 2 tax periods before the status change or, in the course of 2 tax periods since the establishment of the status change, significantly alters the activity of the first employee. Unless there is a change in activity due to the preservation of jobs or the recovery of business. It is proposed for the reason that the tax base of the profit tax is reduced by the tax loss of the previous tax period in carrying out certain activities, and in practice cases, statutes or changes occur solely in order to reduce the base of the profit tax in such a way. So either you have a company that has achieved a major tax loss in the previous period or you buy such a company and you bring it together with your company and you have practically transferred the right to that loss which, in the following period, in the year two as provided for by the law, reduces the base of profit tax. And finally, the last provision. So we propose this provision that income tax is paid at a rate of 20% on all types of services paid to persons who have a seat or place outside the administration, that is to say, operating control in countries other than EU Member States where the overall nominal tax rate of profits is lower than 12.5%, so in off-shore companies. So, we believe that with these changes in rates, in fact, the Law on income tax and profit tax, and with changes in the way of taxing property in the 10th month, we will fully introduce order into the tax system in the Republic of Croatia, that we will reduce tax ejaculation, and also with the full implementation of the personal identification number, we will be able to implement many processes concerning both social and any other processes linked exclusively to the property price, and not to any other basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55000	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55001	Here's the Honorable Mr. Minister you said that from now on, companies are now buying villas, yachts, they will no longer be able to use those assets or moving things for private purposes. That's incorrect because under the current laws, it couldn't have been so far. In fact, these things could only be used in a way that would conclude a contract, a contract of use, a lease, depending on which property or which thing was used. It's just, unfortunately, it's been poorly controlled, so we have a lot of cases where companies are just to get out the profits of buying apartments and buying apartments, buying real estate, buying yachts... /The intruder doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55002	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We'll be in agreement by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by committees, do the committees want to take a word? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of Vesna Buterin, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55003	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. As a united debate of the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act and the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax. In my debate, I will first briefly refer to the amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, after which I will refer to the Amendments and the Supplements of the Tax on Profits. Therefore, the amendments to the Income Tax Act reduces the tax burden of income, which gives added incentive to consumption and has an indirect impact on the retention of existing jobs and employment trends. When it comes to income tax, then it should be stressed that it is now paid at four feet, 15% on the tax base up to 3600 kuna, based on 3600 one, to 9000 kuna 25%, from 9000 one kuna, to 25 thousand 200 kuna 35% and over 25 thousand 201 kuna 45%. By amending this law as of 1 July, the number of income tax rates from 4 is reduced to the following three rates, 12% based on up to 3600 kuna, 25% based on 3601 to 10 000 800 kuna, and 40% based on a base that is higher than 10 thousand and 801 kuna. This simplifies the taxation system and estimates that the proposed changes will increase monthly income by about a million and a half thousand citizens, which means that these citizens will have more income available for consumption, especially if it takes into account the fact that the first rate of crisis tax of 2% will be abolished in early July. For example, citizens who now receive around 5 thousand kuna, before tax, would now receive about 200 kuna more by the end of the year's year's change to pay the biggest tax for those who earn the most. It is also estimated that the total effect of the change in rates and classes will be around a billion and a half thousand kuna. As a result of the change in income tax rates, the rate of income tax advances will also be changed in such a way that the transfer of income tax on assets based on the rent and the lease will be paid at a rate of 12% while the remaining income tax advances on assets and property rights remain the same. Furthermore, the capital tax advance will be paid at a rate of 40%, the exemption of assets and the use of services and interest, and 25%, respectively, when it comes to the allocation or optional purchase of own shares. The tax on insurance income will be paid at a rate of 12%, income tax from the second income on the basis of the return on contributions will be paid at 40%, so on and so on, that I do not count everything. Amendments to the law also abolished most of the tax reliefs that the taxpayer could use in the total amount of up to 12,000 kuna per year. The amendments determine that income tax will not be paid on scholarships, support for newborns and pension allowances paid to pensioners by local self-government units. The income tax law as well as the Tax on Profits Act are only some of the many measures whose ultimate aim will be to regulate the tax system and disbursement of taxpayers. When it comes to the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act, it should be pointed out that it is actually a reason for the adoption of this law to implement the activities of the Economic Recovery Programme. The amendments to the Tax on Profits Act aim to reduce tax evasion and in particular to distinguish private and consumption for business purposes, to introduce order in the business of interlinked entrepreneurs and to prevent transactions towards offshore companies. The proposal thus defines that entrepreneurs will be recognised as the cost of depreciation of real estate or vessels when making use of those assets, at least five percent of the purchase value of real estate, or 7% of the purchase value in the case of vessels and aircraft. In fact, the practice has shown that there are entrepreneurs who, in a tax sense, abuse the purchase of certain forms of long-term assets. This mainly refers to boats, apartments, holiday houses and aircraft. There is, there is a situation in practice that an entrepreneur acquires a yacht or a holiday house, buys through a company, and for the costs incurred by the use of such assets and amortisation reduces for these amounts the tax base. This was almost always justified by some business purposes, some of my expected jobs and the like, and in fact it was primarily used to avoid paying taxes on profits and to exercise the right to deduct value added tax. The situation is now changing in the sense that all of this remains permitted but only for those companies that actually acquire that property to carry out the economic activity for which they are registered. If, on the basis of the use of that long-term asset, a company does not make certain revenues, in this case as I have previously pointed out, it is estimated to be 5% and 7% of the purchase value of the assets, it is clear that this and such assets do not bring profit and therefore are not used for business but for the private purposes of the company's owner. These amendments to the law will change and regulate this and the rules will be clear for everything from now on, bigger tax revenues will be achieved but more importantly will be avoided that individual wealthy owners of companies will be in a better position than other citizens. If those conditions are not met, then the entrepreneur will be obliged to increase the tax base for depreciation expenditures and the costs incurred in connection with such assets. The regulation of cases of compensation of private costs on the burden of business is also contained in these amendments to the law, the settlement of the costs of private life of shareholders, members of the company and natural persons carrying out their own activity, as they are additionally burdened by income and tax and compulsory contributions to the amount of costs and VAT. Therefore, the amount of VAT in this case does not constitute a deductible item and cannot be requested from the State. The total amount of the cost thus determined is further taxed by the profit tax. It is estimated that this measure will ultimately have a very positive effect, since the recording of these types of costs which were de facto not related to business, and they burdened the tax balances of economic operators, in which case it will not be profitable. This would increase the amount of the base cut on profits and the amount of the payment tax. Business and cost recording in the present way, if these changes are not taken into account, will result in an increase in the amount of income, tax, compulsory contributions and income tax as budgetary revenues. When we talk about the remuneration of shareholders, it should be stated that the frequent case for inspection services was the payment of money to shareholders and members of companies, i.e. more clearly to the owners of companies in the form of advances of dividends or advances in future profits. Later, the company would not make a profit that was enough to cover the advances, the advance would not be returned or formally converted into a loan. In fact, it was simply a matter of money the company owner would receive without paying the tax paid by all other citizens. This bill will see such cases as income from capital and as such will be taxed by the Income Tax Act. This balances all citizens in the Republic of Croatia both those who work for wages and who charge all taxes, and those who own companies or crafts, and who took advantage of profits without paying taxes. It is, in fact, significant tax revenues, while at the same time achieving greater equality. This amendment of the law sought to reinvest free money with the aim of improving business and obtaining profits rather than often the unfounded transfer of economic operator’s funds to meet the private needs of shareholders, which should be taxed in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act. Changes also prevent transfer, i.e. spillover of profits from one company to another. Therefore, the application of the transfer pricing and interest provisions for related companies also extends to cases where one of the related companies has preferential tax status, such as when it is located in areas of special state concern. It was common to establish, in areas with special tax status, companies which are de facto used for transfer only, i.e. spillovers, in such a way as to negotiate fictitious transactions with interest and prices lower than the market, resulting in a reduction in the base of profit and profit tax for payment and VAT in a commercial company that generates income and good business. As well as other companies that are practically not operating or making almost no income, costs in the amount of approximate revenues are recorded, and ultimately only losses are generated. It is also proposed to extend the obligation to pay income tax at a deduction of 20% and to all types of services paid to persons who do not have a head office in the European Union or whose nominal profit tax rate is less than 12.5%. This is to prevent services, so mostly fictitious, from paying companies in tax havens such as Linhenstein, Maldives, Bahamas and others, i.e. to prevent transactions towards off-shore companies from these amendments to the law. In these countries, it is often the headquarters of companies that were founded primarily to avoid paying taxes, but also to launder money. Taxes at a discount rate of 20% will reduce the cost of paying fictitious services and detimise such activities, as the profit tax will be paid in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the proposed law will reduce the possibility of avoiding tax payments in such a way as to take over companies that have a tax loss exclusively for the purpose of using such a loss due to the reduction of the tax base and the payment of a lower profit tax. These draft laws will implement the activities of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ support the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxation and support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55004	Thank you. It is the turn of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55005	Mr. Vice President, ministers, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a package of tax changes of certain government turns in fiscal policy. It is interesting to come to us in half a year in half a financial year and we are discussing it for reasons that it is evident that filling the budget is problematic, that the revenues do not come true as we have completely missed the economic activity estimates for 2010 through the budget we have made since only 6.7 months. And if we remember the debate on the 2010 Budget of the Republic of Croatia, there were precisely these significant differences that existed between the ruling coalition and the opposition. The opposition estimated that this year's crisis would be very difficult, that economic activity would continue to stagnate, that it was both falling and falling, and that everything should be done precisely on fiscal policy and changes in fiscal policy so that in some way prepared by the authorities, on the part of the tax policy, it would affect that we do not have such a marked fall in personal consumption, but at the same time that we do not have a drop in investment spending, and all in the main goal of the battle for jobs. Unfortunately, the communication between the authorities and the opposition or the majority in Parliament and the opposition was not, we could not understand each other, we could not hear each other, and here we are changing politics in half the fiscal year. It is now we who are trying to stop the consequences of negative trends in half a year of these changes. I cannot help but mention something else, the SDP club has since 2008 estimated that we will have problems with economic activities, with economic growth, that we will have investment problems, offer exactly different tax policies. We just had proposals and amendments to the Tax on Profit and Proposals to the Tax on Income Act. Believe me, I don't even want to deal with reading the government's arguments that she sent to the parliamentary majority, why it is necessary to reject such proposals. Here I'll only use one, and this one is, for example, income tax, we'll damage local units, regional units, we'll jeopardize their budgets, etc., etc. And can we say that today's proposals that talk about, let's say, changing the Law on Income Tax and bringing in to encourage personal consumption, so that I would say the revenue of the budget, whether or not this is a certain destabilization of the budget of local self-government units. Therefore, in the last two years when we were aware that the crisis was coming to us, when we had enough time to control the consumption of not only the state but also local self-government, to try our own activity, to influence with our tax policy as little personal consumption as possible, and I would say not to allow the decline of investment spending and to be the ones to influence the coming of the crisis with our active policies. Today we are talking about how to remedy the damage the crisis in the Republic of Croatia has done in the past, especially in the first 6 months of 2010. The SDP club is not satisfied with these measures. We estimate them that no fundamental objective has been achieved in any intention that the Government has stated in its reasoning. What we estimate is that tax policy needs to be significantly reduced by workloads, significantly reduced. The competitiveness of the Croatian economy at this time depends also on the price of work. It is important to stop further layoffs, it is important that the entrepreneur does not feel that his work is a burden and that we must worry that even such low averages of net wages are not compromised, so it is important to see what tax redundancies do that this work is not too expensive, that the economy is more competitive, especially the export economy. And that's why the backbone of SDP's proposals went to health care contributions. We have estimated that it is impossible to maintain a health system that will finance the largest part of a million and 500 thousand employees with a 15% contribution and then make the gross labour price expensive. Then we prevent net salary growth, then we have problems increasing the contribution to the pension system. At the same time, we have problems in the healthcare system 1.5 million who finance health care with 4.5 million inhabitants, and what we say, change and do everything we can to relieve the work and transfer the financing of the health system to one part of the property. On three occasions, we made these exactly those suggestions. In that part, we believe that the biggest changes, the changes that will make competitive businessmen, reduce the labour price and allow me to say the other tax adjustments we need to finance Croatia's social needs. Three years of debate on this, never accepting a suggestion or opening a debate on the subject. And today, again, there's a proposal ahead of us that only concerns profit tax, income tax. Again, we do not have a debate on the greatest burdens that are negative both against entrepreneurs and guilty of low wages and low contributions to the pension system, which is to avoid the debate on contributions and the opening of a debate on the taxation of those who live on property, live on capital revenues and try to finance that part of the health system from something else. And these are the basic remarks that the SDP club has. And why do we estimate that these adjustments other than cosmetics I would say arrangements will not give a greater effect either on the efficiency of the businessmen or on the competitiveness of the businessmen, and let's be honest that these changes too will not significantly affect the workers themselves who will at some point have a slightly higher salary, except those who were in the categories that have been relieved and thus do not assess that we will significantly raise the consumption expected with the proposed amendment of the Income Tax Act. Now specifically when we talk about profit tax, the SDP club will support these proposals for the reason that this proposal is really trying to establish a better base, I would say stop certain speculations, certain negative phenomena in the use of certain business opportunities that apparently some of the entrepreneurs knew how to abuse. But we are still trying to say that some of our proposals that we made about profit tax are not covered by this proposal, which is thinking that in such a difficult financial situation, especially in a difficult situation based on liquidity in which the number or amount of unpaid bills has passed 30 billion kunas, we estimate that everything should have been done to keep entrepreneurs’ profits independent, for the purpose of investing or improving their crafts assets and that in that part of the state is trying to influence the liability of paying whether or not they are paying tax obligations, whether they are paying between the economic operators themselves. And we estimate that we are thinking precisely about these works except I would say those repairs that go to control and greater responsibility of the payers that we should have gone and with additional measures to encourage them to stay and get independently for economic activity or investment or greater crafts available within the legal entities themselves. But regardless, the SDP club will support the tax, the draft laws amending the Tax on Profit. When we talk about the tax, the amendments to the Law on the income tax of the SDP club will not give its consent, nor can we agree on a proposal to abolish the tax bases, I apologize to the tax reliefs. It is precisely the elimination of these tax reliefs that will significantly reduce consumption, important. It is evident that at this point in time of huge problems there is a housing sector, that we have unsold apartments, that the government even went with a special law that speaks of financial assistance in the sale of existing apartments and housing supplies. At this point, we're going with a proposal to remove these tax reliefs. So, on the one hand, we give money to buy, and on the other hand, we don't want to make it easier for them. Two completely different policies. It's simply incomprehensible that in the last three months we've been discussing the same subject, which is encouraging housing, encouraging consumption so that our construction operation can work. We have two approaches. We give the money directly to buy it, and at the same time we don't want to make it easier for those who bought it. It's hard to understand, it's incomprehensible, and we don't understand whether the question is just a burden on the tax administration because there will be fewer demands, we don't know. But it's unacceptable that we have two different approaches on the same subject. Therefore, spending will fall. Many who actually entered I would say by solving their own need for an apartment in purchase had certain thoughts that it would simply be easier to bear and pay the loans. This way we take it away from them. Secondly, we also believe that healthcare users will be very careful whether they go somewhere private, fast, whether they will be treated or now we will only increase the ranks and treat the burden of social and health insurance. It remains for each of us to think about it, but the SDP club believes that apart from reducing consumption, we are still achieving the opposite effect of what it says in the proposal for these changes. What we think is that slowly this will be negative when we talk about the responsibility of us to pay taxes, because part of these measures has been adopted and to encourage citizens to submit tax returns, to be responsible for their tax returns and to be stimulated to pay taxes. So the question remains whether part of these measures will have this negative effect, which means no applications will be filed and tax obligations will be avoided. So, everything remains on our tax administration that will need strong controls and OIB systems, etc. try to make citizens more responsible for that part. And two more words about the rate itself when we talk about income tax. You saw the SDP had something different access. We felt it was necessary to raise an untaxable base to help poor citizens more. The government's approach is to reduce from 15 to 12, retaining a 25 per cent rate and a single rate of 40%, which in my view gives less opportunities to save poor citizens, and unfortunately again helps those who have higher salaries. And that's certainly not a better solution, so that's why the SDP club won't support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55006	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. That's what ended the club debate. On behalf of the promoter, that is, on behalf of the Government, the esteemed Ivan Shuker Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank the SDP Club for supporting the Proposed Tax Tax Act. And I think there are changes in there that no one who wants to be good can support. Also about a lot of things that my colleague Linic said I think we can discuss. However, my colleague Linic was not at the beginning when I started talking in the opening I said this was just the beginning, the beginning of something that would happen now in the next year. Also, I wouldn't want you to understand this one of mine right now, in fact in a certain way, the answer to your argument with some kind of justification. For many things, however, conditions were to be created. And believe me, what we've been through for the past year and a half since the implementation of the OIB has been found better that we don't even know things. At 31.12 this year, however, I expect that everything will be covered by the OIB except for the garnery. And here I will and for your sake of parliamentary representatives because you need to know, and also for the sake of the Croatian public, to say it. At the moment we entered the grantovnica, we entered this under quotes, so when we started to settle only 5%, 5% of the real estate in the Republic of Croatia in Croatian citizens or in legal persons was seduced with JMBG or home number. Do you know what that means in a country that has hundreds of the same names, last names that, like that? So, I expect that next year will be settled and that by the end of next year we will practically have a complete withdrawal with the OIB. What will in a certain way and dictate tax policy in the coming periods is at the moment when we can withdraw all transactions, all the property that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have. I can now reflect the moment when in 2002 there was an amendment to the Income Tax Act, when reliefs were introduced, and now that we're dissipating these 8 years how many new transactions, how many new investment opportunities, how many new income opportunities, then simply some things are no longer applicable. And that's why I'm just saying that this is just the beginning, starting to prepare the tax administration so that we can face all these new ones, to use the capacity of the tax administration where the revenues of the government budget and the budget of the local self-government units are only bigger, where the ejaculation is far greater, to devote ourselves to that, and that these things that are going to go to say so with automation. So that finally in this country, if someone acquires something, that they must have a source of income, they must know how it came to be. Is that pay, whether it's dividend income, whether it's stock sales revenue, whether it's property income, any other way, but you remember our own debate, I think it was the 10th month of 2003 when we talked about that law on, on property or something, so there wasn't enough political power at the time to introduce it. It took a lot of time for the political forces to gather and introduce the OIB. Unfortunately, this is the political situation, and I think that by arguing here whether it belonged to the left side of the assembly or to the right, we have to admit it. But now we're in a position to have an instrument with which we can do it all together. And now we can argue about whether or not someone suggested this, but in a situation where economic activities are what they are, when Europe is now shaking again because of the situation in Greece, because of the situation that will be in Spain and Portugal, which will be with Italy, when the financial market simply for a month in Europe is dead. No state in, on any stock exchange in Europe has issued for the last month one, not a cent... We can also talk about SDP's proposals, but what I once said without the intention of having to shoot ourselves here, let's turn these proposals into nominal amounts, let's put them in the budget, and see if it's sustainable right now. [[You don't understand.]] And I agree with you, and I say so, and I guess from the time I was an opposition representative, when you were here in my place, that the basic problem of the price and competitiveness of work in the Republic of Croatia is the burden of contributions, because one average salary in Croatia, when you look at this city of Zagreb that has the highest tax burden is around 9.81%, say 10%. And do you know what is the effective rate of income tax in the Republic of Croatia? Somewhere around 11.1%, somewhere at 124, I mean billions of income, a total of 13 billion income taxes are paid in Croatia. So these are all kinds of income. So the effective rate of income tax in Croatia is 11.1%, but what really burdens work, which burdens competitiveness, which in a certain way reduces pay... in the Republic of Croatia, these are contributions, and on one average salary, the contributions therefore cost the employer, and on the other hand they burden potentially what employees could get with 90%. [[You don't understand.]] And look at one percentage point reduction in pension contributions is one billion 200 with less revenue in the budget. At 1% we don't generally get God knows what, but we're doing a terrible minus in the budget. On the other hand, let's not forget that, too. We're talking about data that are factual and that are executive, that's 2009. 34 billion kunas have been paid pensions on a variety of grounds. Only 18% of pensioners have full-time jobs and years of age, and you know how much we've collected from the contributions? 19 billion. So we're 15 billion kuna, we can say tax revenues, or we can say a complete deficit plus some 7 billion tax revenues should be taken to pay only pensions. And now look, if we don't have that problem, we can now play with tax policy any way we want and then we can talk, and even if we have to, and because of some national interest, we can consensually agree both SDP and HDZ that we're going in that direction to cut it down, but how to cover this minus. And when you add that another minus somewhere at about 4 billion dollars to the cost of health care, how much is collected from the health contribution then it comes that we some 17, 18 billion kunas had to secure above these tax revenues, actually with tax revenues and has an 8 billion deficit. Or let me tell you the 30.5 situation. With 30.5., we had to secure 6.8 billion kuna for pensions more than we collected with contributions. We had to provide a billion and 100 million kuna for a health contribution. So it's a little less than 8 billion, and the total minus of the state budget, so when you take that rough income and expenditure is 6.8 billion in the first 5 months. So the total minus went into retirement payments and we still had to give a billion and 100 tax revenues for this. And it's a fact no matter who you were at this point and how you were. So I say these tax changes we need to look at, this is just phase one. Phase one. We have not once talked here and four eyes about taxing certain assets, and we have now come into a position to tax holiday houses since 1.1.2011, but by value, not by square, give a minimum that the local self-government units must have, but also do not allow them to wild to the sky, but also do not allow someone to play the good mayor and mayor and introduce a minimum rate and knock every day to a minister or to their parliamentary representative provide me with so much and so much money. Just like you saw, in profit tax law, we'll make it impossible for someone to make a cottage or something at the company's expense, to use it for private purposes, and thus reduces profit tax. And that's what we're going to define here in profit tax law, and when we bring this property tax bill, we're going to clearly define how and under what conditions anyone is going to be released. Personal cars, too. Now we're here, what concept you have, I'm only asking you which if I can just overstep to finish this part. So those personal cars most used by Croatian citizens to some extent, there we can agree that it is some kind of flat tax, but all above that it goes to value. A convertible can't be a car for business purposes and it just has to be clear to everyone in this country. And we're going that way. The same story is with yachts. Whether it will be 5.7%, we're still doing different calculations, etc., but if he doesn't have 5% or 7% of the value of that yacht, it won't be recognised as a business expense, it won't be recognised amortisation, he'll be given a solution that's not a ship to carry out business purposes, he'll be charged a excise charge and he'll be charged VAT. And that's what we're gonna end this year. After that, with this introduction into the cadastre, we will move on, and then we will be in a position to close the circle, see how these funds are distributed between the units of local self-government and the state budget. And then come to think about what direction to go with the reduction in the price of work. And that's one concept that I hope will end in the next year. And that's why I might ask you to even support these amendments to the Income Tax Act because it's only one step. But I think when, since we've all been here in the Parliament for a long time, a little bit here, a little bit there, I don't think even there's any big difference, but it's just a question of whether we all had enough political strength to get our hands on weapons and spend it. I think at this point no matter what the crisis is that we've come to that. And let's not say if we're going to reroute a billion-and-a-half kuna into citizens' pockets, only this year it's going to be around 750 million with income tax base, if we've collected this year, we're actually planning to collect it, and for the first five months it would turn out to be, 2 billion and 400 of the crisis tax all the time when we add it up to 4 billion in the next year. So let's not say that in such a way we will not act to raise the standard of Croatian citizens in a certain way. So that's why now? Because from 01.07. we can say all accounts by 01.07. are recognised as operating costs, the total deduction that can be used to reduce the tax base will be 6 thousand kuna and can be prepared for next year. And since 01.01.2010, these changes to the Law on property tax, this part, and you know well that the introduction of the entire Law on property tax in Croatia must be extremely careful here. Extremely cautious because many Croatian citizens who have acquired some kind of property in some times and before Yugoslavia today are not in such a position, the question is whether they will be able to pay or not. We must be extremely careful here. The second thing, with the gartering, we'll finally be able to pull all the data. And finally, if we want to get to the property tax quality, we're going to have to evaluate each object, and that's why this job can't be done in half a year or a year, but it takes more time. And that's something I don't think there should be some kind of political consensus that it takes 2, 3 years if we want to make it quality because I don't think anyone here who sits, regardless of which political party, is not disputed that that municipal fee should be replaced by a property tax and that finally in Croatia everyone starts paying taxes on what in principle according to their economic power. And that's the idea of these changes. It doesn't make sense for us to end these reliefs, even though most of them use it on someone else. So look at the housing, we have an incentive housing savings of 250 million, 5% are not paying taxes and these other government incentives. So everyone can use it and Mr. Vice President, gentlemen, I thank you for letting me speak a little bit more, but I felt I needed to say this because in the end, when you add it all together, I think my colleague Linic that we are in principle not very different in our debate. It's just that we're operating on the question of whether or not we can do some things right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55008	Thank you. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55009	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There's a little noise in the hall, so I have to wait for them to calm down. I will begin my debate, perhaps to surprise and Minister Shucker, by thanking him for finally coming with a bill to be abolished, I have called it a tax and public private partnership when it comes to the acquisition of property on behalf of the company, and in fact use for private purposes and great abuse. And that's really good. I waited patiently for three, four years because I talked about it. I'm just not sure if I understand 5 to 7% of the value of the property if it doesn't happen in one year? I'd be maybe a little bit more rigorous and raise to 10 to 12% because some will get paid and a fictitious lease at 5%. It will, it will, but come on, it's 5 to 7%, okay. [[- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I hope that many of these yachts, boats, planes, aircraft and other things will be attributed to their own name, not to the company anymore. But with the best will and the reading of the law and listening when you gave an explanation, I didn't understand whether the next one was foreseen. I'll make it simple, but I really don't mean it. Because the other day I was in one city,... In particular, Company A owns a complete factory hall, all machinery and all the values of an employee is known who. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He rents a complete factory, so he rents all of the B's assets that he works in, and C's got employees, they're workers at the C firm. And Company D has a contract with company C to carry out financial transactions to collect invoices. Renting extremely high, B and C are always at zero or in losses, not paying taxes, threatening bankruptcy, and that company A is making extra profits and a very large profit in which only one employee is and of course it is known who. Is there a possibility, therefore, because it's done clean on one side of the labourer's fraud when it goes bankrupt because there's no bankruptcy mass, and on the other hand I think even pension and health funds and state. Because if we intervene even in the offshore companies in the monkey, crocodile islands it happens here in Croatia. So, the combination where one of these same owners has four companies, and only one makes a big profit or profit, in my opinion, by actually manipulating four companies. ... If they're interrelated love relationships, then they're, like, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is that a connection? [[Intruder: It's a connection.]] I thank the Ministers, so the tax administration will take lovers amongst the connected people? Great, very good! Satisfied with the answer. There. But indeed, there is a living example. I'll tell you later about the company. Now, you said that the new tax system that you're proposing now would be simpler. When Mr. Skegro was appointed as prime minister's advisor, I expected these changes. That's his philosophy I met earlier in the '90s... But you're okay, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not Skegro. It's you. I'm sorry. But I expected it. Eliminate any relief as easily and transparently as possible of the tax system. But in my court, the tax system, apart from simplicity, should be valued even by justice. You'll probably agree with me. And if I were to caricate your statement in a way that trust me, all citizens of this country would be happy to pay 47,000 kuna taxes and receive 40,000 salaries. And those who receive only 4000 400 taxes are unhappy because they have small incomes. And so this elimination of the rate of the highest tax rate, I just don't like it, and I won't be able to support it for three reasons. In low incomes and poorer ones, there will be a little less tax burden or there will be benefits 80 kuna per month approximately. Okay. And it's going to raise wages because, but getting workers is less at the same time, what you're not going to admit to me right now. Let's wait and see about Christmas who's right as a result of collective agreements that will disappear. So, that part of receiving employees in Croatia who are not paying but other material rights stemming from collective agreements, and if I'm only counting, I heard the prime minister call it a shoe, travel expenses, an allowance to the 0.5 per year internship. Wait a minute, I know what travel expenses are, and I know where public transportation is not used is called shoe. I know. The collective contract has only a notion of travel expenses. You don't have any shoes in your collective contract. There isn't. It's a fee of travel expenses for coming and coming home from work. Some collective agreements have a provision that it is only if public transport is used, others also for private cars, and third, regardless of the types of means of transport, make up for travel costs. It's three different systems, but it's always travel expenses. Well, good. Since I'm making a forecast for the future, I'm not going to bargain and now I'm saying whether it's going to be 600 kn per month, 360 or 680 but on average it's going to be 600 kn per month. And I'm done with the next one. You mentioned the problem of pension payments and how much from the state budget was to be intervened because of the less selected contributions than liabilities. It's been a long time. So you told me how many full-time pensioners he's got. And it's really not good to have such a structure, but what are we doing? We haven't done anything in the last seven years, but all the regulations that we bring have affected the increase in the number of unfulfilled pensioners. All categories and differences. Even now, we do not do anything to reduce the number of people who are retired full-time, although the whole term is a problem because retirement and pension rights are tied to age and not to internship, or you know it well but it does not matter to controversy. And final. With this change in income tax reduction, it will profit part of the population once and seemingly because it will reduce the revenues of municipalities and cities. They will have a hole in the budget and they will make up for it and some have already begun to announce, while others are also implementing a price increase and a burden on the population. So when you add up plus and minus, minus and plus eventually it's going to be about zero. And I welcome and commend you for announcing that by introducing a tax on property, some will not be allowed to act with the lowest taxes, and then knock on the state door and money from you or anyone. That's what I always stood for. No head of the municipality, no mayor and mayor have the right to knock on the door of any minister or parliamentary representative, if they have not taken advantage of the existing possibilities or future possibilities of the law and introduce everything that the law allows as the original incomes of the local community, so municipalities, cities and counties, because any other behaviour is simply incorrect and rude. And that's why I really ask you, or can't wait for that proposal, that even the criteria of the right to state intervention or assistance are bound by how many municipalities or the city has taken advantage of, spent and charged not only by the introduction, but also by the collection of those obligations that it has, because being a gentleman without a cut, and then asking from the state a billion kuna a year, because we are a special concern, like this, such a care and being a good chief or mayor in front of their constituents. We really have to break it up once.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55010	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. She's a colleague of Dubravka Shuica's.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55011	Well, here's what I'd like to do to correct two allegations briefly. One's tied to this shoe. It is a symbolic name that has in collective contracts in some educational institutions, and refers mainly to when they are not close enough or far enough means within a 50 m circle, for those who cannot receive a transport fee, so it was a shoe fee. Another incorrect quote, where you said there would be zero at the end. You heard the calculation of the minister who told us here that there would be about a billion and a half more for Croatian citizens. And third, regarding the cut, related to the local leaders. The fact is that you're right here, we agree here, I'm not correcting the assumption that some of you haven't introduced any taxes or taxes, and then they turned out to be good because it's not even in the law clear. It clearly states in the law that all tax and cut tax options must be exploited. And some have zero percent, and they get the same money.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55012	Thank you very much. The following came to the hearing with a distinguished colleague, Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55013	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I'll say that times of crisis are not a good time for changes in the tax system. In particular, it is not good when the tax system changes within the tax year, as is the case right now. So we have mid-year changes. And it's particularly not good to increase the tax press because it always results in counterproductive. That's what we see from the intro. The government had to see that he was counterproductive, she had to admit it and had to abolish him, although with too long time from the moment the decision was made to abolish it itself. The evidence is also an increase in VAT rates. The consumption has been reduced, trade turnover has been reduced to 10%, and we know that VAT is exactly the strongest, strongest, most important, original revenue of the state budget. When the Prime Minister represented measures under the economic recovery programme, and these very laws we are talking about today are from this economic recovery programme package, then she stressed that all citizens are responsible for economic policy. Although it is certain that the government is responsible for economic policy, and not citizens today, it is actually a little clearer what the prime minister was going to say at the moment. It is clear that these changes in the tax system are primarily aimed at the consolidation of state finances, not at helping citizens rather than at discharging the economy. And the citizens are responsible so much that this consolidation will go right to their expense. It is actually in a highly centralised state like Croatia was to expect. The government must maintain the state budget as a central instrument redistributing the newfound value, and units of local and regional self-government seem dependent on these state-owned mangers. And that is so best evidence is that these changes in the tax system are not being carried out on the burden of the state budget because it will actually very little lose, and that it will lose through the amendment of the Tax on Income Act it will compensate itself through changes to the Tax on Profit. The amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax are abolished by the harrassor and by those with lower incomes than mid-year, and those with slightly higher incomes since 1 November this year, with the need to say that these higher incomes are such that they are not actually covered by a union or consumer basket either. So, the citizens will get a little bit back, but at the same time they'll get very much taken away. In fact, a large number of citizens will lose their right to return taxes because almost all tax breaks are lifted. Elimination of tax relief calls into question the principle of justice in taxation, human rights are violated because tax reliefs, they exist as such in all countries, and their purpose is to make life easier for citizens who are financially difficult. So they're actually going to lose the most of our citizens in the field of special state care because they've never paid taxes before, and they're going to lose easier. By eliminating tax relief, the government strikes for example young people who have been buying an apartment to resolve the issue of roofing over their family’s head. The government is cutting off interest on loans, buying an apartment, and at the same time stimulating the sale of apartments with 200 euros per m2 and in fact, a man wonders what that makes sense because we all know that so far under these stimulating measures less apartments than the number of fingers in one hand have been sold. Furthermore, relief to health insurance and health services is lifted which is a blow back to the weakest, to the sick. And don't let me count on it. Once worded, the changed tax system will end the middle layer of Croatian citizens, so it is the one that is largely full of the state budget by his tax duties. On the basis of overpaid taxes, the state paid citizens a year about a billion and 800 million kunas as much money as it would return to the citizens by abolishing the haraks. Here's an example. A man with a salary of 6000 kuna net and a payer still at a rate of 4% a year paid in the state register of 2880 kuna. If he paid 300 kuna for life insurance at the same time, it cost him an extra 3600 kuna. At the end of the year, those 3600 kuna were paid back or the tax was reduced by that rate. Now, according to the amended law, the state returns 2880 kuna to him or not to take it off, but it takes away 3600 kuna from the tax relief. So, the state is in plus 720 kuna, the citizen is at the same time so minus. If he pays additional health insurance, he actually makes a living on it. An example of his co-worker with the same salary, but who has an apartment loan of 50,000 euros every 15 years and a 6.5% interest. He will be at a minimum of 3060 kuna per year after the removal of these reliefs. If, with the removal of these tax reliefs, collective agreements, which we hope will not be the case, the income of workers will be reduced annually by another 3,000 kunas, so through Christmas Eve, K15 and gift to children. And it is clear that these changes in the tax system cannot in any way be compensation for collective bargaining. In the end, all I'm going to say is that the state is showing one incredible generosity by saving money from taxing support for newborns, additions to pensioners and support to children in the event of the death of their parents. So all those support and allowances paid by local self-government units, which have nothing to do with the state, there is a generous state. And the biggest losers in this tax system will be local self-government units. The application of the law will result in a decrease in net tax revenues by about a billion kuna per year, with the government's cash flow of around 135 million. 126 million less revenue will be made by the counties, while the budgets of municipalities and cities will lose as much as 763 million kuna. I wonder if this is actually a way to convince some units of local and regional self-government that they don't have the financial capacity to exist, so they need to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55014	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction. Dear colleague Ivo Grbic. Here you go, buddy Grbic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55015	So I would correct the incorrect assumption that citizens with small incomes will be cut off from reliefs. In fact, the colleague is, if you look at the data, it's easy to get them at the Ministry of Finance, then you'll see that most of the returns have been made by citizens who have high incomes. Therefore, it is not true that they are cut off, namely, here it is practically decided that those who have high incomes do not yet get through return.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55016	Thank you. A further discussion will be carried out by counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55017	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. In these areas, the most primitive version of the acquired capitalists created the value of those who were expelled from their own companies. Workers' rights are long gone, they're just a letter on paper, every day they're getting smaller and in a normative sense. There are many who work for months, who don't get paid, even more are those who suffer every three to six months whether their boss will, whether the new newly-componed capitalist will extend their labour contract. And no protection. The state says it will not incriminate non-payment of salaries as a criminal offence because it would disrupt legal certainty. So whose legal certainty? Is it these newly-componed tycoons that buy an apartment, a villa or a yacht every month, and not pay the workers' wages, and often not the state itself? We're in a crisis, the debates have been going on for a long time, and it's still going to be who caused it. But one thing is certain, she wasn't challenged by the workers. The work of the crisis didn't cause it. He was so powerless, weak, unprotected, creating capital. And it's too high to say, it doesn't need to be an economist, it doesn't need to have the elemental knowledge from the political economy or economic policy to know that the basic principle of tax crisis is not to increase. And all in all, we can say that this is essentially part of one fiscal measure, not social recovery measures, not social measures, social development measures. It is announced here, the announced measures, i.e. the announced new taxes, the real estate tax, that is something the SDP has long proposed. However, we know and are aware that this is still a long-term process and not only because of unscheduled land books that will still last, but simply because of the inefficient finding of its real owners because we have allowed fictitious owners to become and enroll on these properties that are not their property. But I'd like to say right here, I think it's both a place and a time to say it. To encourage people, no reform can be made unless people have confidence in that system. So let's start with these people, from all the past that's happened to them since the 1990s. So they've lost more without anything and I often say if they have a job unprotected at work. They have an inheritance. Most people have the legacy of their fathers, their grandfathers, mothers, great-grandfathers who have not alienated in their past poor lives. They weren't great patriots, but they weren't alienating their country. And it can't be as long as taxes are introduced and taxes are introduced on capital gains, everything that this new cream of Croatia created in quotes is untaxed first, and only when our average citizen strengthens the economics, and then his free will whether to sell those properties, rather than being forced to feed himself and his family. That would lead to a great injustice again, Mr. Minister. Let's think about it. Gradual introduction of tax, certainly property tax, but let's first of all this newly acquired, newly-componted property that who knows how it is and what it came from. But it's really late now to take away the good part. Surely with our consent will and this proposal is incorporated into the Constitution, but we are also aware that not all justice will be served and that the only way is by taxing such property at least in some way its owner feels that past acquisition of such property. And if the inheritance tax, and those on the fatherland, come to the last of the grandfatherhood. Because people who have these are already elderly people who live on small pensions still have some part of them somewhere in their place, so we're going to push justice out of them first. I don't think that's good. But what Croatia needs and what is not just business is certainly the work of the Ministry of Finance, but certainly not but also the Ministry of Justice, USKOK, other parallel agencies. Croatia needs Rick's law. Without that law, there will be no justice, no justice systems, no justice systems, no fair taxes. This kind of property should be seized, and above all, in our positive regulation, we don't have the regulations that Americans have introduced. They were absolutely ineffective in the persecution, so corruption, the mafia until they passed Rick's law. The basic principle of Rick's law is something new than we have now. We're just so proud of ourselves right now, and we're all gonna say it. This is now our new mantra, something that has long been functioning and even overcome in Europe and the world in the fight against corruption and organised crime and tax evasion. The principle follows a trail of money. No, gentlemen, follow the money owners. They hide behind companies, although we have long ago introduced the criminal responsibility of legal persons and a legal person has a special life, but obviously it is not enough. That's not enough. We need to identify and in our units of local self-government you will hear the leader's answer. I don't know. It's a company. I don't care who owns it. We certainly need to care who owns it. If we really want to fight corruption, organised crime, dirty money that anyone knows where it can come from. Not only is it originally from some newly-componed tycoon of ours. Who knows where he came from. And then taxes won't be fair. Here I am, Mr. Minister, suggesting the passing of Rick's laws. He's very rigorous, but we're not going to establish a tax system just if in the beginning we don't take away the property, it's unjustly acquired and it can only be taken away in this way. So all our bodies must be allowed to follow money owners, that there is no hiding behind companies, and that there is no hiding companies in some exotic neighborhoods. I think it's essential that we also apply ourselves to this subject of fairer tax distribution and to make citizens trust in power. I think that these changes to the income tax system that the government has proposed, they are indeed on the trail of minimal changes, and that of the second tax class and according to the new pay system would be higher, for those employees who today receive a net salary of around 12,000 kuna in the range of 50 kuna for the weakest paid to 250 kuna. It should not be forgotten about the thesis in order to remove tax reliefs further facilitates the middle layer, which means that it is precisely those who will be in a downturn due to the correction of tax rates and tax classes. And another thing, the proposed system doesn't correspond to the moment we're really in, and that tells us about the relative, or the percentage expected change in wages. After all, the government itself acknowledges that it is unaware of the potential effects of these own measures. It should be borne in mind that the effects of this increase on personal consumption will be negligible, in particular in conditions where energy and oil and gas prices increase is consequently due to other products and services in the previous months almost completely eliminated, we can thus say melted or spent a possible increase in wages. And then what's the suma sumarum of all this? That the highest prices of this so-called. mini tax reforms pay the middle layer, and we have to keep it as a pupil of the eye. Well, it's not just for Croatia's middle class or as rich as the government likes to call them, those who don't dig in buckets. The middle layer still keeps Croatia from sinking completely. They paid the most, both small craftsmen and those employees. And we have to say that it's the most pro-pulsory workforce, that it's the people who raise children. And one more thing, we must never forget that no matter what tax reform is carried out, this potential income must not be spent anywhere. He must not go to the impoverishment of the public sector, which is education, it is health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55018	Thank you very much. A colleague, Davor Huška, applied for the debate next. He's gone. He's losing his right. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Although it is not usual for tax, tax system, or tax rates to change during one fiscal year, which is also an additional problem for taxpayers, but also for the tax administration. Unfortunately, today we are in such a situation that we must probably do so. It is not good that I, for a long time, did not want to admit that we were in an economic crisis and that it was caused by most of the structural nature, only by changing last year at the head of the government, in fact for the first time we started to say that Croatia is in crisis, that this is not only a reflection of the global financial economic crisis, but that we really have to do something in our economic recovery. Some of the measures presented are estimated not to be enough for Croatia to be more pro-pulsant, the Croatian economy. We should primarily begin to discuss what kind of economic structure Croatia needs, what the industry that Croatia needs, what they are tertiary activities, how to develop them in the future. But I'm glad that today, actually I think we opened dialogue here for the first time. Neither on the side of the promoter nor on the part of us here discussing there are any strong big words, but for the first time we are trying to find solutions together. And if we're not gonna support one of these laws as a club, that doesn't mean we're not ready to keep talking and looking for the best solutions. It would be good if within a very short time, we could actually see the whole solution of what it will look like, what the tax system in Croatia will look like in a few years. We are aware that we will not be able to introduce a portion of the tax overnight. We can increase rates, reduce rates, but the effects of that are minimal. And when we talk about this first law on profit tax, then we actually improve discipline or strengthen the discipline of this tax collection. It has been seen, even though it has long been seen, that I am simply one part of that tax leak, or we can't charge it, and through this kind of change we are actually trying to introduce discipline on several segments, or edit what costs can be used as a cost that will reduce the tax base, which I can't, so here we are talking about the means of business to settle private costs, we're talking about property used for private purposes, and it's actually in companies to prevent over-income between related companies, and to prevent tax losses. There's no reason we shouldn't support it. However, in the very explanation of this law and these amendments to the law, it is said to be one of the economic recovery measures. If we could actually have some greater effects in economic recovery, then it would be a real measure. Unfortunately, this will not have a significant impact on or more significant impact on economic recovery, but it will pick up some of the tax revenues that we have so far been unable to collect into the state budget and that is good. However, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, we would have to see what it is that should be done to make our economy more competitive, regardless of the low profit tax rate, and then also in this segment of income tax. There is no reason for us to stimulate the dividend payment, especially since in the last two, three years, somewhere on average I think the dividend payment is about slightly more than 4 billion kuna, and most or almost 50% of this paid dividend doesn't end in Croatia. There is no reason to pay taxes, those who receive such dividends are paid to their countries in their budgets, and the basis of such profits, or such dividend payments, is actually work in Croatia. Maybe it's not some grandiose asset at the moment, but it shouldn't be stimulated. In other words, in order to help the economy then we should also consider what we suggested a year ago or even a little more, which would mean if we were to stimulate the company to keep its profits. Either keep the profits or she reinvests. What would that mean? Would that trigger an investment cycle? Could it have affected the liquidity, so the company will have its own trade assets in one business year. And I say, and these changes that are proposed here are good and there's no reason why we shouldn't support them. When I talk about our tax system and we look at it as a whole, then we see that we are dominated by labour taxation, taxation of consumption and very little taxation of property. So, through a couple, a tax system such as a communal fee should be translated into tax as soon as possible, and almost or not tax capital revenues except with this special tax when we introduced it on dividends. I think that there should actually be a broad debate there now, not only in policy, so the Government and Parliament, but probably also in professional circles, how and how to spread tax bases so that we can cut exactly these taxes. So VAT, income tax, possibly profit tax in one different way. In fact, our overall economic growth problem is precisely that GDP growth is based mostly on consumption, and we now have very low consumption. How do you resolve that? So that's the question. We're here today, talking about the consequences. I'm glad the finance minister talked today about the problems we have in the budget. For the first time, seriously and openly, we're talking about it here. I think we should continue this dialogue in Parliament. I don't think it would be good if in this situation, even though we're reducing the lowest rate, we cut the highest rate. Why do I say that? Because at that level, at one level of pay that we can't say is extremely high, it will still increase income. While at this lowest level, therefore the wages below the average salary, ranging between 4 and 5 thousand kuna taxes paid is minimum. And because most of these days in this situation in the family are using tax reliefs and if there are 2 abstentions, then he's practically very little, he has a very small basis for paying taxes, so this reduction from 15% to 12% is actually going to be minimal. So maybe you should consider that part. As far as tax breaks are concerned, I don't think it's a good idea to end them like this. We've already reduced them from 48 grand to 12 grand this year to 6. In the next year, they'll actually disappear. I think that by the end of the year, there should be some way to see the first outlines of tax reform to be implemented in Croatia. There, this part or this amendment to the Income Tax Act, as has already been said, will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55020	Thank you, colleague Zgrebec. The following is registered by colleague Marija Lugaric. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55021	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit a little bit of grief to the fact that we have discussed this previous agenda point a little more and more strongly than this one that seems to me to be much more important to the lives of the citizens. After all that has been said, especially by these fellow MPs and SDP MPs, just a few sentences about tax breaks. Why in the world did we, colleagues and colleagues, introduce a system of devastating reliefs, and why do tax reliefs actually exist? They exist to send citizens primarily a very clear message that these are desirable investments. In order to stimulate on the one hand, the sector that we identify and contribute to a certain part of the economy or the public economy, if they can say so at all, to the public system of public services, or to direct people who have money not to spend nothing but to have certain, to provide certain support. That is why housing reliefs have been introduced. I repeat, these were reliefs not for rich people, but for people who buy a single property on credit. Not for the rich, it was already said here. A man who buys a 30-year-old apartment because you also have a square room where you get it all together, he's not a rich guy, he's not a rich guy. Tax relief for housing matters concerned the return of a part of the subsistence lease. People who are tenants aren't rich. They're not rich, you can't say they are. And now we're going to end this support for the people who are tenants by passing this law. And I'm not into that either. Secondly, one of the largest groups affected by the elimination of tax reliefs will be young people who have some kind of maybe average salaries. Highly educated, they bought apartments, they took up loans for 20, 30 years, they calculated in the long run that the system works as it works. On average, the average return on paid interest was one or two months' war. My people for 30 years or 20 aren't a bit of a mediocre calculator. That's what people were counting on, and that's what they're responsible for, and they're taking credit. You're taking it now. And I repeat people who bought the only real estate because only in that if they're only recognised tax relief per person in the square, so you can't buy 300 square meters now so let's go rowing, there's no 50 squares for one person, 65 or 70 for two, etc. That's what relief is about. They're not rich people. Some of the system's dominant logic suggests that in times of crisis on the one hand, social measures should help those who are poor, who really do not have basic human needs, and on the other hand that those who have something should be encouraged to have greater consumption. With these changes or those that could have had that increased consumption, we're going to be banging on the head and we're saying no, you can't. We don't need that. And it's just not good. Secondly, Mr. Minister, on several occasions in the past six years, we've discussed tax reliefs here. From the SDP club we proposed it seems to me on two or three occasions the introduction of new tax reliefs, a relief for all people who pay for their own postgraduate studies, people who pay for themselves the costs of information and learning foreign languages, we agreed here by consensus that this is basic literacy in the 21st century. On both occasions, our SDP proposals were, no, no, it's not a whole government is the best in the world and smarter than the SDP club and will give the whole system. We see how it gives, completely shuts down. It is good that there are benefits for investing in education for entrepreneurs who do so for their workers. But I ask you colleagues and colleagues, if I want to invest money to myself or any of our citizens who have paid for this postgraduate study, pay for learning foreign languages, pay for learning information, which benefits him and consequently the state and everyone else, there is no relief. We're sending a message to our citizens, no, it's not a desirable investment. No, you don't have to spend money on that. In this whole story about the elimination of housing tax relief, one more thing needs to be said that further affects especially younger people. The interest went wild, the interest grew, and a lot of it. And in some way, I would say to the annual calculation, given that the SDP's proposal to go with a special bank tax, or on these housing loans, is not accepted, we have another blow. You've grown ten percent, twenty percent, on the other hand, counting on it to substitute part of these tax reliefs, there's no such thing as that. And you're in multiple negatives. Now we can spill over and compare to the tax rate change system, so take a little bit of it, that's where we got a little bit, so we're somewhere in the end. But no matter how connected the systems are, it's kind of like pears and apples, it can't be compared. It is clear to me that from the point of view of the state budget, it is comparable and that this mathematics is either correct or able to do so. But from the point of view of our citizens, however, they don't care what they have in their wallet and what the state took or gave them. And finally. There's one more thing we can't ignore. The issue of system uncertainty where you do your life-long-term plan as most young people have concluded with banks credit agreements for 20 or 30 years, computers of some kind of stability and security system to know what they're going into. If we change them every so much the rules of the game and the circumstances, we can't talk about either legal or some kind of life security and stability, which is on the one hand a prerequisite to have those who at least have a sense of saying so to the free, that some of the money you have continues to spend and that in some way in that whole twist we're looking for a way out of the crisis. And I repeat, what about the proposal for these tax reliefs although I see it as a complete system is abolished to say tax reliefs regarding educational needs. As far as health benefits are concerned. It's logical that it was used by people who have more. These people who have more pay than their salaries in the percentage part and greater contributions to health care. And if there are people who still pay higher nets to say the amount in the Health Insurance Office, they do not want to use these public health care services, but they decide to pay in the private system, so they give more to this public health system, on the other hand they do not use these services, they do not work in hospitals, nor on waiting lists, nor spend material, nor on the working hours of a doctor, etc. Instead of encouraging them to continue to do so, because they still have a obligation to separate through contributions. No, nothing, over. So, I don't think that's the smartest thing we could decide, and I especially regret that it will affect primarily younger highly educated people. If we don't see that the way out in the younger highly educated people who can spend something and make and create and create, then I'm afraid that our whole future is pretty uncertain and that for years we're going to suffer the consequences of bad policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55022	Thank you very much. And the latest application of the distinguished colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So economic policy should actually be a focus, focus on how to raise a tax base, or production, it's actually budgetary expenditure issues. Will it go into non-productive activities or development? But here we are talking about changes in the tax system. Again, the goal is just to fill the budget. In fact, the state is not considering reducing the expenditure side of the budget, but actually maintaining the existing level of consumption and ensuring the necessary income for its maintenance. As we've heard from my predecessors, this has been juggling at rates, and it's actually going to show visible is that it's less savings to the poor, and guessing the rich. Namely, that group whose salary was taxed at the lowest rate has paid a little tax so far and there is no effect. As for those mediums who pay at rates of 25 and 35 percent, they lose the most. And the rate over 40% is actually abolished by the IRS, and at the same time, tax breaks are lifted. However, they are untouchable and remain untouchable this time. So the middle layer that was filling the state budget is now an attack on these citizens of ours. I have one calculation here, but since my colleague Jelash has done a calculation that actually shows that the state is in a positive state, and the citizens are down. Unfortunately, the citizens are making their living again, and that's what they need most. We also heard here, and I will repeat that the greatest loss in local self-government is worth a billion kuna. The smaller budgets are actually in municipalities and cities by around 763 million kuna. And now we're wondering how in the local environments, in local self-government, how we're going to budget, in fact, how we're going to achieve all those laws of certain functions. In fact, from the budget on income, citizens finance from the budget, which is actually related to the social, health, education, sport, and the fall of the budget is for example. for our Dubrovnik budget, about 10 million kuna. And another thing about profit tax. Namely, it is mentioned that houses will be taxed by value, not square meters. I can't think of a excise charge, so I'm going to mention an example of a yacht that, from one medium, we actually had that, that was worth 10 million euros. It's a vessel that paid 150 kuna excise fees, and someone else who paid 56 thousand euros paid the same fee. Thank God, meanwhile, there's been a change in excise duty, and there's at least a little justice done. However, this domestic excise system has led to the ability to charge the budget and to tax those who have in time to avoid such situations. And now I wonder if all our tycoons have actually bought yachts and boats together, cars and I wonder if they've run out of deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55024	Thank you very much. First we have a replication report, my colleague Bodakosh. We'll also respect your correction by your colleague. Comrade Bodakosh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55025	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister. Well, fellow Members, you were talking about this juggling income tax rates. Well, I think what the minister told us today is that 10 grand has over 23 thousand salaries of net personal income, so now if that 10 grand with an average salary of 30 grand, it's 300 million or 3.6 billion dollars a year at which the rate from 45% would be reduced to 40. I think that's the amount that's going to increase their personal income for that part. There's a question of why it's done. Why, I think in the first row because the government is not socially sensitive, it has no intention of fairly deploying the tax burden and why these 10,000 citizens who, as you said, according to these salaries live best, why they need to cut taxes, allow them to live even better. Is that what this tax reform is all about? And what about those who have entered the upper class, what about those who barely, the middle layer that is now managing to survive, but will certainly have a tax that their increased tax will reduce that possibility. And those who are on the verge of existence even after all these reliefs they have and don't pay that tax. From this point on, it seems like the most profitable and certainly the ones who have these 10 grand would appear to be the least decent thing to do is to keep this rate of 45% still. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55026	Thanks, buddy. At the end of the application for correction, a colleague named Majdenic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I answered, I waved on time, but here. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of MP Šimac-Bonačić that the state is under this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act that it is in plus, and citizens are in minus because it is indeed not true. The impact of this law will reflect a reduction in tax revenues by about a billion kuna, which means that so much money will remain for citizens who believe that it will target consumption, which means more traffic, greater demand for goods, etc. What's for sure, which is that it's also a reduction in taxes that they'll feel the most, they'd say the weakest paid workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55028	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the SDP club for a five-minute debate, a respected colleague, Slavko Linic, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55029	Mr. Vice President, thank you. On behalf of the club I am pleased that for the first time in the Croatian Parliament we have really discussed and tried to understand the attitudes of both and others so that I hope that this crisis may make us more often understand each other so that in the name of the club I express the pleasure for this way of communication. We feel a little bad that for two years we couldn't discuss all these different approaches to tax solutions, so we might try to find some solutions before that. However, as a suggestion, when the SDP club first proposed to take down the contribution, we only proposed 4 index points of representation. And remember, two index points we said something to the employer, something to the net salary, and two index points to the retirement rate. We have suggested pension savings or that other pension pillar, but as we can see, our problem is generation solidarity. Therefore, there are solutions because we need to clearly increase pension contributions. Therefore, if we reduce health care and go in favour of retirement is not such a hole in the budget. There's always a hole in what we want to give to the workers. That's where we suggested there's some net pay, so then we shouldn't change these income tax laws significantly now. And that's where we repeat again, because we're obviously not going to solve the pension system, move part of the health contribution. Why? Because if we do this to reduce our health contribution, we increase the pension contribution we will have to resolve the health system. When we solve the health system, we will come to the conclusion that any property tax must be the basis for the financing of health care. On the other hand, we will finally change the communal system which is one of the few socialist relics. There's no such thing as a communal contribution anywhere in the world. That's something when we had a social one. ... Communal fee, thanks to my colleagues. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No communal contribution, something that was at the time of social property. We have to leave it. Let's be honest with the bill we don't have. We once made it, it seems to me, Mr Krvedić, back in 2000, and we never discussed it. The ministry, tax administration, local self-government, the association of cities and municipalities all have to work on it. And Mr. Minister, the biggest problem with the health deficit is that the county didn't take over the financing of county hospitals which is part of me would say primary health care isn't being financed, and that's something that again the property tax will mean their income, but it has to be directed to health care. Why? To dissipate your salary. Therefore, we cannot go gradually. We can take first steps, but we have to force ourselves to unload the work, turn to those who live on property or have property, so I'd say dead capital. And that's the biggest cost. And on the other hand, certain changes obviously solve the lack of funds for pension funds we leave to the government to say what? We've suggested a second pension pillar, and apparently generation solidarity is bad. And of course, when we look at this whole package we have to notice as a SDP club too many changes, savings, but very little on the state budget. It's always on some facility, always on local self-government units. Okay, we need to show that in the state budget, too, I have to save something to solve the problems that we have at the Peace Fund regardless of the charge, regardless of the charge of the budget, so we expect precisely these huge changes to make the effects of the economy bigger. That's why we stay at the SDP club with that attitude of ours to support changes in profit tax, and we will not give our consent to amendments to the Law on Tax on Contributions. Because we're also having a little bit of a hard time getting these savings that will do most of it will be on local self-government units, and obviously there's not enough communication and the dissatisfaction between cities and municipalities themselves is about to get rid of something, and they haven't been talked to.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55030	Thank you, fellow Linic. And on behalf of the motionary, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm pleased with our debate, but perhaps for the first time we all have come a little different to this problem aware of all the problems that are pressing us. But why this way? So, thinking, by consulting a number of people who are not from the political option that I come from, we simply decided to go to a concept like this. Now I'll tell you why. Let's remember the pension system since 2000. So that reform was passed in '99. Since 2000 on this side. The coalition government in which you and Linic were co-chaired also did some interventions in the pension system, so we later worked and now we can withdraw the common denominator. We have four types of pensioners because of various interventions, and that is why we believe that we should not enter this very sensitive topic more partially, but simply we must enter systematically. That's why we've said we're going to reform the pension system, and in parallel with that, we need to talk and see how to go to the revenue side of the budget and how to solve it. But we think that this is something that's the first step and we need it to be, and I think it's a good basis for this all together that should be done in the next period. And let me just do something about capital gains and capital gain taxes just to get ourselves off some illusions that it's not some big money. The Zagreb Stock Exchange had 27 billion kuna traffic two years ago. You know what traffic this year is? 2.7 billion kuna. 30% of that traffic can be said to be happening, we can tell the people's shares freely. They're shares of HT. And those shares were in the hands of the citizens, and they were basically most of the traffic under that nominal part as they were bought. So there's no difference in the price at which we would have some kind of reality, and let's not have the illusion that we're going to achieve some kind of huge billion. Because if there were 2 billion kunas and 700 kunas in fact, the question of whether or not there was a million gains in terms of the decline in value on the stock market and the question of whether or not we would have achieved something at any rate. So that's the topic we can discuss and now we're asking a real question. At this point due to small traffic, the Zagreb Stock Exchange is not in the best position. Because simply after moving some of the shares that are no longer traded on the Zagreb Stock Exchange is the question of what kind of situation, do we want to attract investors with that stock market, do we want to attract an investor with this kind of profit tax and that they are the generator of something that will bring us some bigger income tomorrow. These are all the things that can be discussed and ad hoc doesn't refuse this or that proposal. But if we're proposing some things I think we've come into a phase and this debate today shows that we can put arguments on the table and on the table and on the other hand, numerically, repaint them to the revenue side of the budget and that we can discuss whether it should look one way or another in the future. And I think we have services today. Unfortunately, when I came to the Ministry of Finance, I did not have the ability to make certain projections regardless of the crisis periods for some future time. Another thing is that international financial institutions are experiencing us in a slightly different way today, and they can help us there. The third thing I didn't mention here today, but now I'm going to mention, and that's some new source of income that we have to devote ourselves to all our strengths, and these are European funds. Because if we're going to pull most of those two billion and five hundred plus those nearly a billion kunas for agriculture, we're going to open up space for budget interventions. Whether to finance some other things or fiscal discharge. Because these funds of European funds are no substituting means whatsoever. So we got so much money based on some distribution in Brussels. And it's not good, there's no fellow Mondekara here sending a message we're not gonna use. There's simply no argument that we can say that we won't use it. But if we had space, that I had to build administrative capacity, that we had to force these colleagues into local self-government and mayors and mayors and mayors and mayors, tell them no more money like this. You have to make a project that you can withdraw money with and in such a way simply make them function differently and get far more money than the one that loses it. So it's a whole new space that we're certainly going to discuss a lot more in this House, but maybe we should discuss it just at today's level as we discussed it today. Because I guess we're all in the best interest of these 2 billion and 600 plus these agricultural resources that's almost 3 and a half billion to pull as much from the European Union as possible. Because look, we're gonna take that part of the VAT and customs that belongs to us they're gonna take it, they're not gonna watch, they're gonna take that part, and now the question is how much of that money we're gonna be able to pull back. But it's something that opens up space to us tomorrow for a completely different concept of this tax policy and contribution policy, primarily pensions, etc., but it opens up spaces for something. And that's exactly what these tax changes are going in that direction. So they're going in this direction to create a basis for something, but at the same time to take advantage of the opportunities that we're given. And another thing, I think, finally in Croatia, we have to respond together whether we want to attract foreign capital to invest in Croatia and be the bearer of economic growth, or if we want to close it with some kind of grids like this. Be assured that due to the various uncertainty, the misrepresentation of the situation in some countries that are members of the European Union, investors are fleeing from them. This is an opportunity for Croatia. This is an opportunity for Croatia now. But I'm saying if we're going to argue at one point, I think we can collect political points, but let's discuss the arguments, let's say at this point for all the mayors, where we come from, no matter what political option you have, you have to have a project if you want to get money from the European Union, you can't get it in beautiful eyes. And look, you know what it means when one unit of local self-government, let's say, the problem of the hiking waters solves something through pre-accession funds. At the same time I am talking to all institutional banks right now, so if we have to go, I will propose to the Government an amendment to the Law on the implementation of the state budget that these borrowings for the financing of EU projects do not enter... Indebts. [[You don't understand.]] This, be sure already, perhaps during the budget rebalance you will get this proposal on the table. So it's thinking and it's working, and if we collect that money, you know what 3 and a half billion euros means. That's 20 and another billion kuna. This billion kuna that the local self-government unit is going to lose is nothing compared to that, but if we don't use that 20 and something more billion then we can say that we've made a terrible failure. It's a terrible failure, and there's something, there's a space where we have to tomorrow, no matter what political option we belong to. Because I used to talk all the time when I was mayor if it was mud on the street, so mud and SDP's, and HDZ's, and HNS's and HSS's, no one can step on the mud. But if there's no mud, we'll all walk on the asphalt. So, this is the topic on which we need to build tomorrow, so in all communications, starting with that the World Bank has promised us full assistance, some members of the European Union that have experience, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the World Bank, are willing to help local self-government units, the HABOR prepares on the other hand that it can give money in this segment, and if someone gives someone an investment for 50, 60 or 70 million to solve the municipal infrastructure, his budget is 15 million, so maybe on income tax he lost a few hundred thousand kuna, that's something that can't be measured. But if some things can no longer be financed from the state budget, or let's take an example of the Croatian Railways. Who here in this assembly will say that it is not in his interest to invest all our strengths to make projects to withdraw as much money as possible for the Croatian railways, because we can no longer withdraw for the roads because we have a highway level like no European Union has, but that is why it is an opportunity to withdraw that money for the railways. Now we're going to fight over how much someone bought the bending trains or how much someone didn't secure today. It's people behind us. We can't change anything here. But make projects tomorrow, make tracks, low-level any kind of, uh... It doesn't matter, from Rijeka to Botov, and that's how we raise our hands, Rijeka and all together, so that's something we need to talk about tomorrow. [[You don't understand.]] But then we will no longer have to secure those 2 billion and 600 and 700 from the budget for the functioning of the Croatian Railways, rather than slightly less, but then we can think whether we will reduce the contribution to the pension, whether we will increase the second pillar of the pension. Because I think if we all talk here that we're all about the second rate, the second pillar of retirement has to increase, because he's like this, with a rate of 5% simply unsustainable. So these are all the things we agree on. Maybe one way or another. Sometimes we will use political folklore to collect these or those points, but some things simply came the time because of the situation in which Croatia is located, to think about some things and think about things differently. And that was why we approached this tax change, why we're making other things. You know that in the 10th month, we'll send you the fiscal responsibility Act. A law I don't think any MPs will be against. Why? Because it'll make us all think and think differently. Because they're going to make all of us who are in power not to blackmail each other with one or another project to make... than we'll all make a decision here that our deficit or our spending party can be so much, that we simply discipline ourselves. [[You don't understand.]] The time has also matured for us to begin to think about how to manage public debt, because with debt if properly managed, debt can also be earned. But that's what a task force is for. So these are all things that maybe a year, a year and a half ago, we couldn't talk about for two days. Maybe a year, a year and a half ago we weren't even aware of things, but these are things that I don't think there should be a reason why there's no consensus in Croatia. We can separate one way or another. In the end, I think that our goal is the same, and I sincerely hope that we will think about it that way and we will do it that way, because I say in the end when things are done well, while the citizens benefit from it, and then the elections will show who the citizens will trust. It's hard for us if we don't do anything, so we can get power, too, which is worth it to you. So that's it. And I don't think there's any point in me talking anymore. The unit of local self-government will, I'll end up with it, it'll run out of one piece of income, but look at the people, let's take a honest look at ourselves. In the past four years, did we in any way reduce income income to local units by increasing the non-taxable share of income tax? We didn't. Look how much income tax has grown in the last four years. Or at the same time, remember when there was a bile debate here, for certain moments and very curious about when we suggested that total income tax resources be rerouted to local self-government units, because we thought it was fairer than profit tax, see what would happen today, how many units of local self-government would lose revenue on the basis of how much profit tax revenues fell. So the state has already lost 4 billion revenue from almost a little less than 4 billion income based on profit tax cuts last year and this year as much as it will be. Therefore, the local self-government unit in the past period exclusively had a growth in income from tax base on... because we have not intervened in any item that would reduce income from income tax. [[You don't understand.]] So they had extremely high growth. Extremely high growth. Honestly, in this case, the city of Zagreb will again be the most affected because it has the biggest income, etc., but look at this. We can discuss the Law on the financing of the local self-government unit in the 9th, 10th month, maybe already in the 7th, but the same. We can open the question, see how much money goes into the area of special state care. Today, you have many cities that no longer fall into areas of special national concern. So these are all the topics that we can talk about and who we need to talk about because it's not about a million or two. You know that the state returns a full income tax to local self-government units in areas of special state concern. And then it's a couple of hundred million kunas, and you know that some of our big cities that stand brilliantly financially fall into areas of special state care. So I'm saying, there's a series of things we can discuss, there's a series of things we can do well. But I'm also saying maybe it's not good sometimes, maybe sometimes politics should be put aside, numbers are still the biggest truth no matter what political sides they look at, the figure is always the number and the figure is what it is. Thank you again for the debate. Thank you, SDP Club, for the support of the Profit Tax Act. I'm sorry to differ over some income tax laws, but I hope you will support these four property tax laws in the 10th month when we also maintain the fiscal responsibility law. Thank you very much. Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. And so it won't be tomorrow. We cannot support the conclusion of the Committee on Local Self-Government where a different redistribution of funds is proposed. I'm saying, we can talk about it at some other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55032	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote most likely tomorrow, I believe there will be conditions. We're not going to continue with point 5. The final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Forests already with point 6. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Department, but not today but tomorrow at 9.30. I'm closing the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-06-17-0.u55033	Seven. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profit Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 560. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 106 votes for, nothing abstentions, 1 against. Good morning ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs, we continue to work and move on to - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Fire Department Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 563 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161 Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the Law, the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
