ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58540	Good morning, we're starting today's morning session. So, we said yesterday there'll be a vote today at 12 o'clock. We won't give it up for 12 hours. So he's staying. We announced that today we're going to start with the 3rd agenda, which is 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 598 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the obligations of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Krešimir Rogman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58541	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs and MPs. Why is it proposed to amend the Employment Mediation and Rights Act during unemployment? As is known after years of growth back 2 years, the economic situation is worse, with negative trends. Of course, we know the consequences of a global financial crisis. Of course, this also reflected in the labour market where there was an increase in unemployment. In January of this year, the unemployed were about 260 thousand. That number even grew to 300 grand then. There are currently 283,000 unemployed at the end of the 8th month. That is unfortunately a 16.4% increase compared to the same period last year. I must say, in Croatia, there are two more facts on the labour market. It's a high rate of long-term unemployment, those who are more than a year unemployed, so they're 44%. And secondly, it's also an alarming fact that's been pretty bad for years, and that's the percentage of employment, so overall low employment. Employment in Croatia is about 56%. That number, of course, varies a little bit the same as everything else. Over 65% in the EU. The unemployment fee receives slightly less than 70,000 employees, 69,000 900, which is 8.7% more than last year. True, we have one positive indicator that's good. So, higher employment, so the number of people employed. About 100,000 people were employed this year in 8 months. That's even 18.2% more than last year. So this year is definitely on the labour market more dynamically than last year, but unfortunately, the other part is more unfavourable, so the negative one, so there's been a total increase in unemployment. Of course, because of such a macroeconomic situation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also adopted an economic recovery programme. It adopted a whole series of measures for economic recovery and one part of these measures, of course, relate to the labour market. Of course, we could say all of the measures are practically related to the labour market because the labour market is not only being dealt with by the Employment Intervention Act, or by active employment policy measures rather than by all other measures and laws and measures, because the final solution on the labour market is being solved as much as possible by the creation of jobs. However, when we talk about these measures on the labour market, I mean in this narrow sense. Therefore, the government has adopted 2 of these labour market measures concerning this law. Therefore, the measure to dynamic the labour market with concrete measures of the time limit of full-access receipt in order to further motivate the unemployed to seek a job, and after a certain period of payment of 50% of the compensation with an obligation to further improve or requalify and to extend the remuneration for persons who are at risk of long-term unemployment. In this part of the dynamicisation of the labour market, the government has taken some other measures that have been implemented that do not apply to the law. This is the introduction of new active employment policy programmes and 2 such programmes have been introduced. So there's one thing about professional training for work. It is a measure relating to the financing of vocational training both by a person with high professional training and by other persons with medium professional training, or by craftsmen, but also by those who, according to regulations, have to either pass a professional examination or are subject to further work, to a certain training. There is a great interest in this measure, it has just begun to be implemented and new professional training programmes have been introduced within the institutions. Otherwise, these programs are always done on the basis of a poll of employers and what the employer needs, and now for the first time general programs have been introduced. So the information education programme that is needed today was introduced and another additional programme has been introduced in addition to these specific programs that are required by employers, foreign language for persons working in tourism and catering. Of course, no one can learn a foreign language in a few months, but it's that short course for let's say the caterers we keep very useful before the tourist season. Therefore, the basis of this programme also results in the need to amend this law. Therefore, in this law, four important provisions will be changed with some changes in terms. So first, it's going to change the amount of compensation. Secondly, the duration of the fee will be extended. These 2 measures are based on the economic programme. Third change, there will be a change in the conditions for a permanent so-called "sustainable". a permanent fee. It's her fee to work or retirement. And this was done in order to bring this Employment Intervention Act in line with the proposed amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. And the fourth change is a change that concerns the issue of middle school mediation. So as for the amount of the fee, now the unemployment fee is 70% for the first 90 days, 50% for the further period, and 40% for the so-called period. I'm using that term because it's more practical. It's a fee for a new job. However, it is important to know that things are in force now and still in the application of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Intermediation and Rights during unemployment, which limits that fee to minimum wage levels. So that's one additional restriction. It is now proposed that the entry into force of this Law immediately ceases to apply the Law on the completion of the law which should otherwise have been valid until 1.1. and that the amount of compensation instead of the first 90 days remain the same, so 70% of the salary, and all those other fees amount to half of that 35% of the salary. The objective of this measure, as far as possible, is to stimulate additional job search and, of course, there is an obligation to education or professional training, for which a greater fee is received along the way. The second measure, the second amendment, relates to the extended remuneration. Therefore, this would be an extended remuneration to those unemployed who are at risk of long-term unemployment, those who enter this long-term unemployment, who are 12 months or more unemployed. They would have made this extended income according to one scale, so if they were to receive a fee for a long time, that extension of the fee would have been shorter, if they received shorter time would have been longer, so if they received a fee from 360 to 450 days they would have received another 30, if they received from 270 to 330 for another 60 days, if they received from 180 to 240 days they would have received another 90 days, the fees were in days, it was a little bit awkward to follow. And if the shortest time they were to receive compensation from 90 days to 150 days, they would be extended that extra fee by 120 days. YES, there would seem to have been no slow fall in long-term unemployment if they had received a 90 - day fee, so they received a 90 - day fee because they had so much right, then they were not employed for up to a year and then they gain the right to additional compensation. The third amendment concerns the conditions for obtaining the right to so-called. a permanent fee. Now for this permanent fee, there is a condition that a person has 32 unemployed, that he has 32 years of training. However, the right to this compensation is lost by obtaining conditions for retirement, of course it may be a disability pension, but in general or most often it is about early pensions. So the person who gets the right to early retirement, not the one who retires, loses the right to compensation, actually loses his right to the Employment Service. That is, of course, one of the possible solutions that has worked so far. However, as the proposal is now changing, as you of course well know, the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act, which proposes, among other things, an increase in the rate of reduction of early retirement, thus reducing early retirement. If a reduction of early retirement is proposed, of course it has its purpose, the goal, and one of the goals is certainly to try to stimulate people to stay in the world of work as long as possible. Therefore, if an unemployed person were to remain in force, such an Employment Intervention Act would be in a situation where her early retirement would be reduced and the remuneration at the Bureau would be suspended. Therefore, it is proposed not to suspend the fee, so a new condition is still proposed to remain a 32-year-old internship, with a total duration of up to 5 years until retirement, but not until early retirement, but until retirement. Therefore, a person who acquires the conditions for early retirement will be able to benefit from employment benefits, in the event of unemployment, and will be chosen to go to early retirement or to use an early retirement fee at the Employment Office. Of course, the remuneration at the Employment Service will be lower, but the person has a choice. Whether he tries to be in the world of work, looking for work, or retire. So no obligation is made to her. And the fourth change that is proposed has nothing to do with this previous one, but one observed problem relates to the mediation in the employment of high school students. Thus, not a very precise provision allowed secondary schools to mediate not only for their students but also for students of other schools. It is now proposed that secondary schools can only mediate for students of their schools. When we saw on the committees some shortages of this proposal after this proposal, because it was very rational that this could in some ways lead to some problems because some school directors will do it successfully and some will not be given. After that, we analyzed it further, and we saw that these problems that we are proposing appear to be greater and therefore we remain with this proposal. In fact, it's about the start of high school institutions with public rights that don't have students at all, they don't have teachers at all, they just work in employment. It's not the point of this possibility that high school students work and that schools mediate that someone is doing business, but that school is doing it for their students, so despite the remarks we've heard, which we've made about the rest of this proposal. And finally to say about the funds, for this law, the cost of cutting the compensation, or less the funds needed for this first need, so the reduction in that second part of the fee would be estimated at around 150 million kuna, and the extension of the fee would increase by around 180 million kuna. If we could put it roughly like that, those two measures would be neutral, so the cost would be a little bit higher. As for the costs of this new conditions for a permanent fee, there are, of course, costs there, they increase. It is estimated that they would be around 9 million a year, as the number of these people who could receive compensation increases. On average, there's about 7 grand a year for people like that. So that would be about nine million. On the other hand, if these people choose, then the cost can apply only to those who can go to early retirement, so they can choose whether to go to early retirement or to use compensation. So, even though there would be a cost to these people if they chose this fee then they don't retire, then we can say there's no cost. They're not exactly the same things, they don't object directly, but when we look globally at the state level, there's not a total cost increase, although of course there is a cost in the employment section. I repeat once again the necessary measures, the measures that are in line with these two laws that are measures and financial states, in particular, stress that the measure that costs has therefore this extension of compensation has an important social role for those people who have failed to find a job after a year at the office. So I suggest that the law be adopted in that form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58542	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HSS club, distinguished representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58543	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. This Law on Employment Mediation and Rights during unemployment is a relatively new regulation in Croatian legislation. In force since 2008, with one law intervention, additions to the 2009 law can be argued that I am the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment in practice, we could say good results. These amendments and additions to the laws that are before us indicate that it is the harmonisation of the law with other positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia but also the harmonisation or adaptation of certain provisions of the Employment and Rights Intervention Act during unemployment with the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, or measures designed to normalise the current situation in the economy. According to the applicant’s opening argument, the need for interpretation of the provisions on mediation was observed during the application of the law, for the occasional work of regular students in the country who, with the approval of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, may be carried out by secondary institutions if they meet the prescribed conditions. However, the existing provision did not specify precisely for which pupils of secondary school institutions can carry out these interventions, or whether they can intervene for the entire population of regular students or only for students who are members of their regular education, according to the permission received. In view of the circumstance that some high school institutions have in practice performed intervention activities although they themselves did not have a single student in their education programmes or intervened for regular students of other high school institutions who were also extremely remote, in order to provide additional protection in the rule of underage regular students, it is proposed to amend the provision by saying that the secondary educational institution of intervention can only perform for its regular students. In addition, after the adoption of the Employment and Rights Intervention Act, a new Labour Act has been adopted which has significantly changed until then the existing Institute of Volunteering. In the meantime, as the area of volunteer work has been regulated by a special regulation in cases where the professional examination or the working experience of the regulation has been established as a condition for the performance of jobs for the workplace of a given profession, it has also maintained the possibility of professional training for work without the establishment of a working relationship. In this context, this legislative proposal also proposes to bring the termology of the Employment Intervention and Rights Act in line with the Labour Law. The Proposer also warns of major redundancies in employment rates or unemployment between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union and points out that it is particularly worrying about the relative scope of long-term unemployment. The applicant considers that the relative scope of long-term unemployment is possible to reduce the educational measures of the active employment policy in order to restore, supplement or verify the work knowledge and skills of unemployed persons, all in order to increase their employability. The possibility of significantly encouraging the participation of unemployed persons in educational measures is therefore also proposed, and a reduction of full cash compensation after a certain period. In order to stimulate the inclusion in additional education and labour activation, and since the number of those unemployed persons is also lower education levels, the reduction of second-term benefits would stimulate education during which an unemployed person receives no cash compensation but cash aid at the level of an untaxable scholarship that today amounts to 1,000 kn, which is much more favourable and also makes it impossible to include an unemployed person in the area of so on. The gray economy. The possibility of extending the right to cash compensation after a fall in long-term unemployment over a period of one to 4 months is also proposed in a vice-proportional manner compared to the amount of cash compensation to additionally ensure a existential minimum for long-term unemployed persons. Thus, the right to extend the payment over a longer period will be granted by persons who have fallen into long-term unemployment, and the cash compensation has been received for a shorter period of time. We in the HSS Club believe that applying certain economic recovery measures, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will achieve the desired effect, and it is certainly important that unemployed people, in order to find a job, are stimulated not only to wait and receive compensation, but to start and take certain measures on their own, such as additional education or improvement. We also consider it an important and significant intention for the promoters to create conditions for preventing the inclusion of unemployed persons in the field of grey economy by introducing amendments to the Employment and Rights Law. In accordance with all this above, the HSS Representatives Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58544	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58545	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I must express my satisfaction that the Prime Minister has accepted that the law goes into regular procedure, of course on my proposal, because this has been the case for the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership that these are related topics related to the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act, in many ways they are tied up, and in my view they could be more bound up, these two laws. The bounds should be like a finger and fingernail, that we understand each other, of course, with the Labour Act because these are key laws that not some way frame the labour market, along with other laws. We will be ashamed of something, something to praise or praise, but I must say in advance that because fees are reduced it is the duty of every positioning politician not to support it, and so will the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party will not support this bill, but we will be fair and correct and some institutes that were first incorporated into this law to praise it. To welcome is certainly the possibility of selecting insurance companies between early retirement and benefits at the Employment Service where insurance is provided with the possibility of further looking for work while receiving compensation, regardless of having the first condition to go to retirement, which has not been the case so far, which we have often pointed out through the media, pointed directly to the Government. I believe that, with this positive shift, we are missing this out until the end to define, to link with the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act in the way it was established in Germany, because we believe that an insurance company that has not lost its job by its own free will, so either because of the exclusion of the employer, or because of technological surpluses, must not be punished as the other person who has chosen early retirement on his own. And if we look at solutions and if we study solutions that have German pension legislation then, after a certain period of job search, their Employment Service declares a person in a unsuccessful job search, it declares a person unemployed and that person has the right to retire without pensioning, whether it is two, three or five years before regular retirement. Therefore, it is a correct relationship with those who did not retire or who are forced to retire because they are unemployed and because there is no longer their employer. What we are also missing by this law is to settle, and that is to deal with long-term unemployment. Therefore, no social state accepts the category of long-term unemployment, so it does not comply with that category. I studied the case of the state of Denmark, the Kingdom of Denmark, where this category does not exist in their laws. What does that mean? This means that the state at all levels, from municipality to region to state, has committed to finding a job of at least 6 months per year for each citizen. This has a very logical justification because intellectual capital is thus kept, while in the event of the recognition of long-term unemployment, intellectual capital is lost. Therefore, the state and all structures of society are obliged to fight long-term unemployment and to open jobs, if there is a need for socially useful jobs, if public works is necessary, to organise training for people on the labour market to accept other jobs precisely in the fight with this greatest monster and the biggest problem, the problem of long-term unemployment. Furthermore, I would like to know with this law in the second reading whether all the specific contributions to employment are at a rate of 1.7 and 1.6%, respectively, on salary and charge, as far as the evaluation of these contributions is concerned, so how many employers avoid paying taxes. And I think that if the labour market didn't put in order, if most private employers didn't show the salaries of the workers at the lowest level, so they would pay the legal minimum wage and the rest of it on their hands, then there shouldn't be what's actually inadmissible here, it would say that the funds that will be spent on the greater penalty of early retirement for people looking for jobs as a new institute. Therefore, I believe that there are reserves in the collection of contributions and that this in this proposal, in the light of the law under Chapter 3, should not be linked at all to this table because ultimately it is annoying because it says we will punish the early retirement which, even so, per year of internship, has the lowest price, regardless of which it carries the most years of internship into the system. So, we're going to increase the penalty to pay out a fee for those who are going to be looking for a job tomorrow. So, I suggest you throw this out, and in the light of this law, you see what other reserves are to be made through the revenues of the budget, so through inspection supervision, control the payment of the contributions, through the collection of what is not charged. Because, let's not forget, the finance minister has a discretionary right to extend the payment to someone, in a way to free them from paying, but a certain period of time can get them not to pay. Of course, he has to make up for it later. I don't think that's a good solution. But, well, if I were a minister, I'd never take it if I could free someone for a while, so he'd pay for it later. We have this situation. We have a minimum wage payout situation, and the rest on our hands. And we still have reserves in the gray labour market and these are not negligible funds that the Croatian Employment Service has as its original income, regardless of what I know is going into the same bag. It's all in the same bag, and the master of that bag is still Minister Schuker, and there's no dilemma, because I'm looking for and I'm finding one illogicality. The Croatian Employment Institute's revenues could be at 2 billion kuna per year. The income planned by the Croatian Employment Institute is a billion and 600, and those money that is secured, which is intended for payments, are a billion and 180 million if I am not mistaken. So that's what's scheduled for 1.18 billion exactly I said what's scheduled to pay the fees. So, that math doesn't work for me. Why income from contributions close to 2 billion at the execution level this year is 900 million kuna in 6 months. So it's certainly going to be more than 1.8 billion by the end of the year. So, a billion and 800 million, and the income of the Croatian Employment Service is at 1.6 billion. So the difference is 200 to 300 million kuna. What the Ministry of Finance is going to do with that difference, I don't know, but it's certainly enough to cover this institution that's being built into the law, that difference between the contribution to the Treasury and exits, or the cost in this position, is certainly enough to cover this. And I once again recommend that this in the second reading in the assessment of the resources needed to implement the law don't write because it really irritates you. About the other part, I wouldn't interfere. That's what my colleague Beus is going to talk about about this part of the employment mediation at school and he's going to explain these illogicalities. I repeat once again, so we welcome certain institutes and express our regret that it is not going to the end but that it is just the institute that can continue to be developed. And I point out that due to the reduction of compensation, the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will not be able to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58546	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect that the government doesn't deal with long-term unemployment, so it's through some of these institutes that are being introduced through this law. Surely, a long-term unemployment charge and this institute where a new condition is introduced except for 32 years of internships has been introduced these five years. And why am I saying that? Because right at the Employment Office there are those persons who are 32 years old and who receive a permanent fee of 54.4% and their age is between 50 and 54 years. And I believe you'll agree with the shift that these people at the age of 50 and 54 can still give you something in the world of work. And if they accept this education programme offered by the Employment Service, then they can receive a fee of 1600 kn as a scholarship just for that part if they want to be stimulated and thus certainly can spend this replaced unemployment time in education and later be more acceptable to the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58548	Thank you. We're moving on to the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58549	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, state secretary with associates, fellow MPs. So this proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intervention Act is part of the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and as we know, the whole recovery programme is designed to achieve savings in public costs and consolidate the financial system in the country, as well as to preserve the social and existential security of citizens. Amendments and additions to the law propose editing several important issues, and above all it must comply with the new law, the new Labour Act, which is in force, relatively new. And I trust the future new Pension Insurance Act. In addition to more specifically regulating the issue of intervention for the occasional work of regular students in the country which can perform secondary institutions but in the future only for its regular students, as well as the harmonisation of terminology with the Labour Act in terms of the possibility of professional training for work without the establishment of a working relationship with this bill, it is proposed that the cash compensation at the Employment Office in the first 90 days is as 70 %, and for the remaining time 35 % of the base which is determined as the average of the billing salary is reduced for contributions to compulsory insurance achieved during the three-month period preceding the termination of the employment relationship. So the fee is determined according to workers' salary, but cannot be greater than 70% of the average, average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. According to this proposal, workers with a salary of €6618 who are the basis for a calculation of around €5294 would receive a cash fee of $3,000 and €706, which means for these, for these first three months at the Employment Service, and for the rest of the time, a thousand 853 kuna. Workers entering unemployment with minimum wage would receive a thousand kuna fee in the first three months, and for the remainder of the period 787,92 kuna. The aim of this measure is to actually stimulate the unemployed at the Croatian Employment Service to engage in educational activities that raise employability, education for the acquisition of skills needed on the labour market. An unemployed person who would be involved in these educational activities would receive a cash fee at the level of an untaxable scholarship, which is now about 600 kuna. For European Union countries, education for the labour market is the main tool of employment policy. Educational education programmes for the labour market today, enhanced in the release of workers, can be one of the transitional periods for many people who have lost their jobs. The time spent in unemployment can be replaced by the time spent in education, during which new skills will surely be acquired and new skills for new jobs will be adopted and the confidence that often falls short during unemployment will normally be strengthened. This legislative proposal proposes the possibility of extending the right to cash compensation from one to four months for persons in long-term unemployment. Let me remind you, that possibility has never been made before. The aim of this measure is to additionally ensure an existential minimum for long-term unemployed persons, and under long-term unemployed persons, or long-term unemployment, we consider that if the person in the employment office's records is continuously longer, it means more than 12 months and if the person has made full use of the established right to regular cash compensation. An application for the extension of such payment entitlement should be made unemployed within 30 days of the expiry of the established right. The amount of the extended payment shall be determined at 35% of the base of the salary for the calculation of the cash fee and shall not exceed 35% of the average salary paid in the economy of the Republic of Croatia for the previous year. For reasons of compliance with the Pension Insurance Act, the conditions for remuneration for employment are also changed, and some call it a permanent fee. According to the current legal solution, the financial compensation for employment is made by an unemployed person who spent more than 32 years working. Data show that currently 54.4% of such users are cash benefits to employment and that they belong to an age group up to 54 years of age. I believe that we can all accept that they are persons of relatively young age and certainly that they could still make a contribution to the world of work. We have examples where they enter unemployment with less than 50 years of life and make a permanent cash payment to a full age pension of 65 years. I'm normally talking about men's people, right? Such persons are reluctant to enter new work skills programmes for new jobs, as they are simply demotised to enter such education programmes, since they have met the 32-year working conditions. And this is precisely why the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes this additional condition for such a person to work for 32 years, a new condition is added, which is that 5 years are still missing until the age limit for obtaining the right to retirement. This measure protects older unemployed people, while younger employees are stimulated precisely by what I said about additional education programmes at the Employment Office. This measure will lead to a longer retention of persons on the labour market, but there will certainly be an increase in the number of unemployed persons in the employment records of the Employment Office. The increase will follow a series of reductions in the possibility of gaining the right to early retirement, as I said at the Employment Office. On average, it is deleted from the unemployment records of about 7,000 people a year, who gain the right to early retirement, and 57% of them use the right to cash benefits for employment, i.e. a permanent cash fee. It should be noted that the costs of staying at the Employment Office for such persons are significantly lower than those incurred by retirement. In addition, there is the possibility of new employment. It is estimated that due to the increase in users of the permanent cost fee in 2011 there will be around 9 million kuna, but savings in the pension system will be around 17 million kuna, and the same way if the total cost is estimated to be around 45 million kuna in 5 years, and savings in the pension system for the same period would be around 170 million kuna, which you will certainly agree are the funds that will be very good to save this pension system. And precisely for all of these reasons, and normal financial savings, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58550	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58551	My colleagues and colleagues, to begin by saying right away that the SDP will not support the proposal of this law, not for the reasons that are stated here, and it is about changing those parts of the law relating to the intervention for the occasional work of students in the country where this proposal really corrects or corrects something that caused the disorder, where indeed those who did not have anything to do with education have a bearing on employment. In fact, they've been misusing it because of the inaccuracies of this law. So it's not that reason we won't accept this law. Neither will we, nor is it because of what is said to be one of the goals of harmonising in the normative part but also the termological law with other laws. That's also acceptable. But what is not acceptable, and why is this law unsupportable? Not only because, as counterpart Hrelja would say, the opposition cannot accept any reduction of rights, but simply because, in my deep court, it is an attempt to attach itself to the reduction of the rights of those who are objectively in society the most endangered group against the logic of normal states and societies that care about how their citizens live. The crisis of active employment policy measures should have been a reason to do exactly the opposite of what is proposed by this law. It's like we're saying now here we have a flood in Turopoly, there's been damage, and now we're going to resuscitate that we're going to give people less than they've had. That's the reverse logic of what the situation actually requires. The number of unemployed is increasing for us, and instead of the state ensuring more money for these people to get through the crisis period here, something else is happening. They're getting more unemployed, so we're gonna give them less and less. It's the logic of this law. And that's the true meaning of changing this law that I say whose logic I can hardly understand. The more you two years ago when this law was passed in 2008, the more you could have said for the first time, the more you see, the more decent, the more the law was passed, and we supported it. That law in 2008 was a decent law. Last year, in July of the month, it went wrong. This is an additional deterioration in the quality of this law and of what he would like to regulate around. There's something here I'd call mild cynicism. It is also proposed as an excuse and the reason that unemployment benefits are reduced under the pretext that it will stimulate people to seek more work and introduce scholarships, imagine, for education. If you're going to get a scholarship, and you're 58, 59 years old, you're going to get a scholarship to requalify yourself so that you can stay in the world of work longer. Now, different questions are being asked here. First, there are direct and indirect measures among the active employment policy measures. In general, they are much more efficient, much more quality, more comprehensive and lasting. They refer to everything the state can and must do. I don't know, in the field of tax policy, encouraging employers in the first job, hiring older workers, disabled persons, women, all those in categories that are more vulnerable on the labour market, they are stimulated, employers, so tax relief to hire them. There are a whole range of measures through crediting entrepreneurs to hire or keep people as long as possible in the world of work. In times of crisis, it's going to be a downsizing of working time, which I know, I think the other day I saw the Swedish were completely able to overcome the crisis, and they had a crisis, get over the crisis by reducing the week to three days and preserving actually jobs. When the bauk crisis went through they continued to work normally. These are the indirect measures that there are funds for development, employment, which we will end at this session. It's also one of the measures. Because we don't know what we're going to do with that fund, he's a burden to us where we stand out and accumulate some money so public works are organized. So the world knows different forms of incentives for employment. Croatia has nothing more to do with it than increase employment. In Croatia, we employ about a million and a half people. It's a number that's been held continuously for 10 years. For 10 years, we do not create, generate, create new jobs in Croatia. We have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe and that is the key and source of all possible if you want social problems. With 56% of the employment we have a good share of countries already reached the desired target of 70%, we would, by raising the employment rate in Croatia, solve a whole series of problems. We're talking about the pension system these days. You know, with 2 million employees and a million pensioners or a million and 200 grand, it's a very different situation than what we have today. It's very different. All possible social transfers that go under such circumstances are significantly different than when we only have a million and a half employees. Passive measures, i.e. direct employment measures, are those that should be implemented under our terms by the Croatian Employment Service where education is only one or more requalification, prequalification, etc., only one way to improve the employability of people. Here in this case we forget or not respect the structure of our unemployed. If you look at the age structure then you'll see that in a group of 15 to 34, so young people, that's a group that includes over 40% of all unemployed. Young people are excluded, they are not given access, they are prevented from entering the world of work and getting first jobs. It's a group that needs special attention. At the time, we had a few measures for this first job, one of them was particularly famous, not overly efficient, from college to work, not overly effective, and they said what you would bring because they were highly educated, most easily employed. That's true, but it was a measure that I would have told others, there was another requirement ahead of it, that aphiding actually knowledge, education and expertise, and to tell young people, education, education society will know how to appreciate your invested efforts in education and will appreciate the intellectual capital you carry in society. It was supposed to be a message that they weren't waiting for one day at the Employment Service. Now somewhere around 5.5% I think the number of unemployed among the highly educated and less educated of our fellow citizens. Another endangered group, especially when it comes to this long-term unemployment, are older workers, and this is where we come into a huge problem. Almost 38% are over 45 years old who have come out of the world of work, have been expelled from the world of work, that is a group of people who require special attention and special measures. Instead of ensuring their return to the world of work in different ways, they really do not need to be retired, we have in this bill of law showing extra concern for these people. They used to have at least that kind of security, you know, if he got out of work at 53, 54 years old that he could get that minimum fee, what would be said to be our National Church, at the Employment Office, has any income. Now that period is extended by five years. It's good and it's positive that it allows people not to have to go into early retirement so they can stay without compensation, that's good. Let the people stay, let them search, watch us here young men who've been here for about 55 years and don't retire exactly, and we'd like to work. I believe it's the desire and goal of a large number of people who find themselves out of work at that age, men and women. However, the logic that speaks here, imagine a formula that says therefore suggests a more significant incentive for the participation of unemployed persons in educational measures, a reduction of full cash compensation up to a certain period, so that a lower fee is stimulated by inclusion in additional education and labour activation. Please, lower fee. In the background of such a sentence, there is one cynical premise, there is the realization that our people are sloths and punks and hohstapplers who don't want to work, but like to receive compensation from the Employment Service. That's how you're bad, so we'll cut your employment fee, and then you'll go looking for a job, that's offensive to most of our fellow citizens. I'm not saying that where one of us doesn't like to work, but people are forced, kicked out of the world of work, in years when maybe many of them are for jobs that work in the voltage of strength. Let us not treat them as simulants or those who do not want to work, it is an insult to the citizens that is not a good starting assumption for this story. Secondly, when it comes to this famous all-rescuing education and qualifications. You know, when you look at the education structure, then the largest group of unemployed people are 34% VKV and KV workers. 27% are high school graduates, so 61% are high school graduates and those for whom or for whose level of training should be requalified. I'm asking you what kind of occupations we'd retrain and educate so many people for. What's that? Who would do those educations, that retraining? It's not just a problem, it's a problem, it's an inadequate education, but it's not the only problem, nor does he solve what we're talking about here. And finally, please, cut by 80 million kuna, as it is said here to save at the level of the cash fee 80 million kuna, by reducing the number of those who will be in early retirement and here you will not give him adequate compensation is also cynicism in a situation where people need to be helped, if we want to be a solidarity community. We're all kind of taken care of, but please try to imagine in the situation that you're losing your income, that you're out of a job, and after 40 years of work, it's possible by this, if you're 58 and 59 years old, and 40 years of internship, you don't have the right to this permanent fee but you'll get 90 days, then you'll get reduced instead of 50, 35%. Pull that proposal, these days you've shown around the Peace Act that you can listen to arguments, that you're not doing something that is contrary to the interests of the citizens. Do it and in this case, pull...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58552	Bring the hearing to an end. Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations first is the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58553	Well, the incorrect allegation is what counterpart Vidovic said was that it was cynicism offering the possibility of education to employees. I simply cannot understand that my colleague Vidovic thinks that, since he was the minister of work, and that only if we are educated for those occupations that we can work with on the labour market, we have the opportunity to get a job, if there are no such occupations then we are unemployed. And it's this possibility that is available through these educational programs, that people are educated for those interests they need, which are needed on the labour market to get jobs. So, with lifelong learning, we have to educate ourselves to survive in the world of work. So I can't figure out why to underestimate these people who are so unemployed that they're so blunt, they don't want to be educated and underestimate that 1600 kuna fee they would receive while they were educated to open up a space for new employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58554	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58555	Thank you very much. My colleague Vidovic, you have said: "The best measure to encourage employment is an indirect measure by reducing taxes and giving benefits to entrepreneurs" This would be true if the necessary level of entrepreneurship culture and entrepreneurship were achieved in Croatia, but Croatia does not have enough level or culture in entrepreneurs, so when they are given benefits, then the opposite effect is obtained. And they had the opportunity to gain those benefits in the '90s through conversion and privatisation. And what did we get? We got the unemployed, and so did those employed majority who have less pay than unemployment benefits at the Employment Office. And from their mouths we hear with all due respect to true entrepreneurs, we hear such words, such content that an educated and normal man can't swallow them with a lot of honey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58556	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The right is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58557	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is another one today in a series of bills that neither the SDP club nor any of the SDP members can support. So, business as usual. All of these reform procedures and some kind of slide repairs that want to improve and employment in Croatia are essentially measures that are of a technical nature, but when they are exposed, they lead to severe absurdities and difficult human fates. Only this last example, discussed by his colleague Vidovic, is asking for an answer. And we're asking, not only here, what was said but from the proposings to choose to answer these questions, because that's what people look forward to. The question of employment, the question of what has now been mentioned in business and civil morality. As possible, therefore, this is one small segment in this general environment of devolving capitalism that the ruling ones have bowed down to. Now it's too late for them to do anything in that sense and make it. The question begins essentially as wide as it seems to be compared to this narrow subject but it is essentially the key to everything. And there's not even a few technical things and wheels that can be solved if we don't solve the main things. The question, therefore, when existing norms are not respected at all, in spite of what such legal decisions have been made so far that in the past seven years you have failed to abolish or reduce those rights, they are not respected. So what's left is fiction itself. Workers and those who seek and want to enter the world of work face a number of problems, with rights they cannot achieve and who are even afraid to pursue. About the entrepreneurial climate about the possibility of employment, it might even be too much to talk about here. The question of how people are employed in the public sector is also a crucial issue here. From the top state summit starting with the Prime Minister himself, a large number of public sector employees are being talked about. Look only in the last few years, and even when it started to speak very sharply as if someone else had created this problem, how many new people are employed in the public sector. And what are the conditions and ways in which these people are making progress and how they are employed in the public sector at all, whether they are local levels and more, especially in state-owned enterprises. So, on these issues there is no answer, there is no indication, there is no policy in that sense. And now to return specifically to this proposal. So, in that case, when people don't get a lot of compensation, when they're already exhausted from work, when there are further possibilities for their requalification than for anyone to hire them to remain without those current rights. So, all in all, that I am not longer, and this bill will not improve things, but it will also reduce the few rights that have not been respected by previous legal solutions. And that's why such a legal proposal can neither be supported nor supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58558	Thank you. It is up to the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58559	Well, here's an esteemed colleague, and I quote, "Work rights, all that remains is fiction." So if labour rights remain only a fiction why so many stories about this referendum where they try to retain rights as long and without any changes. Therefore, if not to make riots at all costs and to bring about a violent shift of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58560	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58561	Well, it's incorrect what counterpart Anticevic wants all the time to impose that the biggest problem is public sector employees. Well, I simply can't understand that from your party the Social Democratic parties are coming from such shouting. Well, they're people, so these people have families, so these people need to live and have existence, so you suggested that 50 grand should suddenly be fired from public service and the public sector. I'm sorry, please, it really doesn't make sense that you're simply against people who also realize their existence to feed their family. And you've been yelling at these people all along, and they're a big ballast and a big burden to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58562	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58563	The Rules of Procedure of Article 209 has been injured, so when arguments are not true, then my allegations are distorted. So, at no point did I say that the problem was public sector employees, though. However, the problem of Croatia... /The speech room has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58564	Please, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58565	What do you mean, it's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58566	Thank you. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and don't do that. ... Please don't throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on with the debate. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58567	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Every time there is a debate on unemployment, the rights of the unemployed in Croatia are discussed in two clichés. Some claim that unemployed sloths who don't want to work because they're getting state benefits and they'd cut all the fees off the stock market. The other extreme is that all those who are registered at the Bureau are the unfortunate ones who would work, but they don't have a chance or lose it. Where's the truth now? As usual, in the middle. However, to remove dilemmas among the citizens of this country, one fact would beg the secretary of state to speak publicly. Is it possible for someone in Croatia to be registered at the Employment Service and has removed the job offer. Is it possible that someone was registered at the office as an unemployed person, and he removed the offer to be employed? I don't think so. The one who refuses the job offered by the employment services shall be deleted. It's important to know that we really understand that unemployed people aren't sloths who don't want to work in most cases. Another problem when we talk about employment policy is the different incentive programmes for employers. I've got a lot of people reporting, and now there's a new form of abuse. A colleague, Maric, called it the lack of business morality in the part of employers who, when employers are running for money from the employment incentive programme, fire them first, then hire them with state incentives, and after the time of the programme, quit them again. Obviously here, the system of surveillance, control is either missing or insufficient because there are too many people who appear with the same story. Manipulations with the rights of citizens, workers and the theft of the state in that part of the money. Therefore, it would be good for the reports that we receive in the reasons of the law and that section of the Government to give the Croatian Parliament a little more detail, however, to clarify more clearly. Third, I would ask, given that it is a law that directly affects the fates of a large number of citizens, following the adoption of these amendments and additions, and the Ministry and the Institute are doing everything possible to make the understanding of the rights of the unemployed as much as possible. I'm not sure that the approach and the giving of that information so far is the most adequate. If there is a sufficient number of brochures, instructions, explanations, whether the staff members of the Institute are equally explaining their rights, they warn of the need to submit certain applications. So do the unemployed get enough information to exercise one of their rights? I think it's a very important function of the state or the Employment Service, and unless there's enough attention here, I think it would be good for Mr. Secretary of State to see what information on the ground is present. Fourthly, and Hrelja's colleague led the topic when he spoke, there is a category of definitely unemployed citizens in a large number of EU Member States. Therefore, when all the staff of the Employment Service determines, on the basis of all the rules and criteria, that a particular person simply cannot be employed. We do not have such a concept and such a status in our legislation and then they are either waiting for one of the conditions for retirement or if such conditions do not remain on the list. Fifthly, I know that you are aware of this, but it seems to me that this bill is not enough to respect this, that the employment policy that is being implemented in one country has a direct impact on the cost of working and, unfortunately, by creating artificially surplus offers on the labour market, often employers have an impact on the reduction in labour prices. In this crisis, it was obvious when layoffs occurred and in those activities, those companies and those employers who cleaned especially older, and especially women after 55 years of age, by increasing the number of unemployed in the office directly affected the decline in labour prices to the entire private sector. These days I accidentally discovered, thanks to the people who announced themselves, one absurdity and established another category of privileged citizens of this country. So when we talk about several hundred thousand people who are not lucky, we have at the same time one category of citizens who, by the letter of the law, receive high pensions and regularly work and receive full salaries. So, Mr. Secretary of State, as it is possible for this country's laws to retire under privileged conditions, then you get a full job and a full salary and half a pension, and half that pension is about 5000 kuna. So, he receives 5000 kuna pensions, hires at the ministry or the state administration, receives full pay, and everything is legal. I think it is one of the 15th category of privileged citizens of this country that has passed in silence and completely undetected in which the government has so far not proposed changes in terms of saving the expenditure side of the state budget. Therefore, it is the beneficiaries of the pension under Article 6 of the rights of defenders as well as political pensions. And I'll finish the next one. In the light of the law and the reduction of compensation, the amount of the unemployment fee is only 780 kn after 90 days. The main argument you're offering is that it will stimulate especially those from the processing industry whose inflow is the largest number to enter the requalification, requalification, schooling programmes. These are the most common people with minimum salaries and their compensation will be 780 kn after 90 days. Do you really believe that with a fee of 780 kn they will be stimulated to acquire new knowledge in order to be competitive on the market and return to the business morals of employers who offer employment at the salary of 1500 to 1800 kn and travel costs of their arrival at work, the prices of kindergartens on one child and the cost of gallons that employers do not pay are 1300 to 1400 kn. And this is what Croatia does not have that the issue of business morality and social responsibility of the capital owner has not been incorporated into the legal norm in this law or in others. And that's why it's really dangerous to claim that people who are in the institution and who are unemployed are sloths who don't want to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58568	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you said about like this, that there is an opinion that there are two groups of sloths and other unfortunates at the Employment Service and that the truth is somewhere in the middle. I don't think that's true and there's no truth. There you go. And I said there's no business, enough business morals, and not enough entrepreneurial culture. And why isn't there? It's because there's no truth. And how are we gonna find out? So we finally find out how banks became hotel owners, commercial companies, real estate, land in hundreds of millions of squares without compensation, without any money, sold out, sold out, sold out, closed down businesses, plants, halls from Unity to TPK, Prvomajska and more. See what it is today, what they have done with tourist facilities and the consequence is 560,000 unemployed in Croatia. Until the truth is known, there will be no sufficient level of entrepreneurial culture who is and how he sold Pliva, who and how he sold HT, that Zagreb bank is the largest bank worth 100 billion kuna sold that no June came into the Croatian budget. While there is no truth, there is no morality until we know the truth of who is the real owner of that largest Croatian bank. This is missing from the Croatian economy, it is missing from Croatian entrepreneurship, it is missing from entrepreneurship culture. And we need that truth And we also need more market development, because without enough competition on the market, there is no entrepreneurial culture. [[/Employing Capricorn: Bring the end. Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58570	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58571	My colleague Marić, if there is no truth in this area, then we are in great trouble and I agree with you that as long as we do not discover the truth that the Croatian economy has become owned by banks, I will not tell the Croatian banks but foreign banks in Croatia we will find it difficult to reach business morality because those who have done all that they had had not to do so, so they have no business morality either. I think then the best way is that wherever there is no truth, wherever there are no answers as they have come, how the banks have come into possession of the most valuable part of the Croatian economy. What canals made huge sums of money to take over. So wherever there's no truth, wherever they don't want to give the truth that the best way to nationalize is to take it from them. And I forgot to say before, forgive me, Mr. Vice President. Besides, that's why HDZ's gonna lose the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58572	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58573	Comrade Lesar, you also noted in your debate that corporations lack social responsibilities and social morality. It's often talked about and it's one big illusion, and I'd say it's a hoax. What needs to be done, which is the responsibility of the authorities to incorporate the congenital norms by which companies will have to behave. Of course, there are legal rules and their responsibilities that are very weak, but as such they are not respected. Who can pay an employer anything? The state says go to a lawsuit and argue. Is that anywhere in Europe where imperialism is almost in its already zenith is not allowed. But he's here. Therefore, letting go of all good will, some of their inner consciences, is ridiculous. So the state here shows that it's very weak and tolerated to the strong. According to those who should be restrained right now, to adhere strictly to norms, and such norms should also be strengthened to protect those who make her profit and profit and who live, live well from their work, who remain completely unprotected. Because even such standards are not respected, and we leave them to their god-awful social responsibility and social morality.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58574	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58575	counterpart Anticevic, social responsibility is not an illusion, the social responsibility of the owner of capital and the requirement of business morality is not an illusion. The truth in Croatia does not exist social responsibility, nor business morality, and we probably forgot about it and we forgot about it by running towards the European Union, copying legal norms, and apparently leaving out such an important, important detail. We have imported a lot from Europe, copied, but this segment has not been forgotten, but it is not by accident, because regulations, standards and public climate in Croatia create precisely those who should adhere to these social responsibilities and have business morality.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58576	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired in 10 and 50 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. It's our guest, Gordan Maras. He's gone. You weren't 10 and 50, you were 10 and 54. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Time's up. I'm sorry. You should've come sooner, so we'd have our word. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58577	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will not repeat those parts of the views of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People, already on behalf of the Club, but I would like to remain on one element which, in the light of these amendments and additions, is listed as the fourth, and formally in the text of the law itself, in amendments and additions to the law is the first. I would like to remind you that in July 2003, the amendments and additions to the Employment Intervention and Employment Rights Act, in Article 3 of that law, actually made one addition, to the entry of paragraph 4 which is now intended to be changed. It's about what it's about. On the basis of one general right, the right to work acquired by citizens from 15 years of age in the Republic of Croatia is also defined as being able to carry out intervention activities for regular high school students. However, beyond that provision, there is nothing in the law that would more specifically define the conditions for implementing this norm, but was left above all to the Ministry of Education, today's Ministry of Science and Education, that sublaws define the procedure by which high school institutions may also seek permission to carry out this job, or to intervene in the employment of regular students. Unfortunately, today neither on boards have we heard any over-information that would statistically show us what the real situation in this area is, so how many such high school institutions have really asked and obtained permission, how many members are established in student services in their institutions and how many members are on the annual level of the agreement on mediation, to see at all what this is about. Unfortunately, someone has practically inserted a smoke bomb into the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, preparing these amendments and additions to the law, which someone is obviously sitting in the Ministry of Science and Education and protecting the lobby that was established in the meantime, those directors who have taken up this job, which means they have sought and received permission to carry out this activity. How else to interpret this approach, and also the explanation that we heard today from a state secretary who literally said there are high school institutions with the right of the public that do not have regular students, which have only been established to intervene in employment. I'm asking you how is that even possible? As it is possible that there is a high school institution, whether it is a school or a student home that does not carry out its activities, there is therefore not a single regular student. This is not the issue of this law, and this problem cannot and must not be solved over the back of this law. This is a problem that must be solved by the Ministry of Science and Education, not by transferring that kind of responsibility to you who actually know nothing about it and you rightly don't understand it, because it's not your part-time job. Let the gentlemen of the Ministry of Science and Education do their job properly, bring in sublegal acts that are clear and unequivocal, and let them not allow such circuses. What will we get from this amendment to the existing Article 3, that is, Article 1 of this law that you have proposed? We'll get one restriction that's discriminatory. In fact, you suggest that future interventions in the employment of high school students can only be done by schools, or institutions of high school for the needs of their students. Do you know what this means in practice? This means that in one city where there are four, six or more schools, none of them have to do these jobs or just one, and students of all other schools will remain deprived of the right to find and do a certain job in the summer season, occasionally and temporarily. Just because they don't attend a school whose principal was business enough, let's just say it's so initiative that he registered his school for those jobs. That's not right. I warn you once again, while in the Government of the Republic of Croatia there was a Law Office headed by Mr. Marijan Prussia, it could never have happened that the proposal for any act which is contrary to existing regulations, and especially with the regulations in which fundamental rights are regulated, the right to work is fundamentally right. It is now seen from this proposal that there is no good coordination, and that there are obviously no people in the government who are able to filter the regulations that go towards the Croatian Parliament. This is the first reading and you have a chance to correct this second reading, because this is a discriminatory provision. You will place children from schools whose principals were not so ingenious, so business-initiative that they register their school or their student home for this job, in a completely uninvited position. Whole cities, entire regions, the entire county will be left without the possibility of consumption of this right. With what right do I ask you? If it is some abuses, if it is business that is not in accordance with the law or sublaws, gentlemen, there are inspections for that. It's their job to take care of it, but to deny one right I don't think it's fair. What message are we sending? Instead of teaching our children that work is one of the most important values and that it is only work that creates personal and social wealth so that we also allow them to feel what the labour market means as soon as possible, that as soon as they start to subscribe to their family budgets in a way that they can work in summer, that as soon as they get used to work and get their working habits, we actually get used to them, wanting not to, knowing not to, getting along or not to narrow down that space. My approach is just the opposite. Let's do everything possible to get out of our schools by a student who will bring in a message that it's worth working in our country, that this is a work-worthy society that stimulates a man not only to get more education but to get more work habits as soon as possible. Education and work are not and cannot and must not be in collegiate. So, even as you educate thousands and thousands of people have worked. I used to do it in my day as a student. And if it hadn't been for that, I probably could never have financed my life at that time. Because my parents couldn't afford it. There's a lot of them. This is how we can help them, but let's not narrow them down. I ask you nicely as a proposer to re-communicate this thing well and to see what is actually behind the board, whose interest was to narrow this down to a narrow circle, i.e. to warn the Ministry of Science that those high school institutions that exist, which do not have any students at the same time, are incarcerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58578	We have one replica, the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58579	Dear fellow Beus, you are well aware of another aspect of this problem that proves that things really need to be considered in this problem. Personally, I was familiar with some cases, for example, with the situation that the principal of a student’s home in Zagreb who had a student service and founded a private school that did not have a single student, so all the students who worked through that student service in that dorm were transferred to their private home and then actually raised money for it. From that point of view, there's a reason to move it. But what you're also saying is that certain regions, that the entire cities will then deprive students of additional earnings. Perhaps the proposer would consider that the occasional and temporary employment of students, here we are talking about students, so by 18 years, not students, can establish units of local self-government of a special institution that would deal with it. So, cities or something. So, find a solution because really the solution that one institution is doing this for all students in that area in practice has proved not good not only because of the failure of the inspection, you're right. Because they really didn't work. No inspection services of the Ministry of Science, but no inspection services of the Ministry of Economy because, for example, work contracts were concluded by the regulations and at a time when students were not allowed to work. So they can only work at school holidays. That's a little bit of a bigger question than just the failure of an inspection. Maybe we should look for a third solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58580	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58581	My colleagues Lugarić can only partly agree with you, i.e. I thank you for the creamy cream you give me. Namely, if there is someone who has misused this right, he has a name and a last name and is involved in the inspection, not the legislator. That's the first thing. The second thing, the idea of moving that right to local self-government would be an even greater narrowing. This would actually mean the need to establish new institutions. We know that in practice it is a burden and that local self-government especially because of the obligation legally to introduce a treasury would not be easy to do. Let's keep it in high school, but let the inspectors do their job for God's sake. How can someone make fun of us in the face and end of their job as headmaster of a student's home create something that is only virtual to make money for his own account. So let people do their job to prevent that shame, but let's not put ourselves in a position to kill an entire cow for one steak. We don't need that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58582	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. There's a distinguished representative of the Gordana Sobol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Well, actually, since I've been discussing every single one of the laws on employment mediation and unemployment rights in the last two years, this is how I'm going to start with all the changes. This is also, in fact, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Law during unemployment is, in fact, just an expression without the idea and inability of the Government to provide and encourage economic activity and recovery in Croatia with any excessive measure and to create new jobs. As in previous changes, and this time I object to the way I try, to say, to scrape, to patch up the holes in the budget, to collect as some kind of money, and so I hear that it goes back to the most vulnerable, those who are at the Employment Service, those who have not lost their job, have lost their jobs and ended up in the employment records of the Employment Service. And in this case, they're the most affected because here they hit the most precisely on those with a minimum wage, so after the minimum wage they come to the Employment Service and they're actually being reduced in that second period by the fee they have the right to receive up to here is 50%, and now they have nothing, anyway, so they need to take another 15% of the misery they're getting. So, in that case, that fee would be 770 kuna. And this is what I'm going to say, I'm also opposed to thinking and trying to say that with such fees it's mostly those who are less educated, who are eventually even without finishing elementary school with a certain age, just some qualifications, etc. First of all, I'm against it. I don't think it's any less important. And the second thing that the promoter didn't show us here, but I'd like to see the analysis to see how many of them are highly educated, but through the annexes of collective agreements that they had with their employers, they agreed to lower salaries and minimum salaries, and then they arrived at the Employment Service. And then they fall into this category that will receive minimum fees. The unemployment fee is the right of workers, based on work, to guarantee such material and social security in case of loss of work during a certain period of time. The social security of an individual, not just an individual, behind each such individual and standing a family, at least one or more members of that family, and therefore, I say again, again and again, and I will always not raise my voice for this Law, I object that these are exactly the kind of benefits are being reduced. This is also an opportunity to remind you when I told you about the government's inability to take any excessive measures in these Croatia to start economic recovery and to open new jobs, I will remind you that it was this category of unemployed who already were, in a way that they had already been reduced in fees because it was said with this reduction in the fee that we will collect money to support employers to preserve jobs. Have we forgotten the law? This year, somewhere in the spring, we had a debate about this law and amendments and additions to that Law because it has proved to be a miserable 42 thousand kuna, in a little over half a year, instead of the planned please and advertised 120 million kuna, in general used to preserve jobs. What are we talking about right now? Now in this way, by reducing the fees for those of the most difficult categories of unemployed who are already receiving compensation below all social minimums, we'll say, we'll take them off because they don't really want to go to work and they don't like to work and they're really glad they lost their jobs, and then we'll give them scholarships to get extra education because they don't want to do it without it. And I'm asking you, colleagues and colleagues, that there will be a scholarship of 1600 kunas except in the reasons of each bill, there is not one article of the Law that provides it. And besides, I remind you that even today, through the Employment Service, you have a series of measures that in one way or another encourage the unemployed to further education, retraining, etc. You have, among other things, one measure called financing the education of unemployed people according to the needs of the labour market. So the target groups are please, unemployed young people up to 29 years of age without employment, women from 29 to 49 years of age, long-term unemployed persons, unemployed persons over 50 years of age, unemployed persons with disabilities, unemployed Croatian defenders, children and spouses of the dead and missing Croatian defenders, parents with 4 or more underage children, parents with special needs, parents with malignancies, victims of family violence, treated addicts, victims of human trafficking, asylum victims, young people who have left the child care system, returnees from serving prison sentences and other unemployed persons. I am now asking the proposing representative, which is now what the government is proposing as a new government when there is some additional stimulation, when whoever we already have in the existing employment measures. Well, tell me honestly, gentlemen, there's no money. We don't have the money, that these measures that exist right now so I don't have all those other ones, there's no money, so now we can go down to the unemployed, and then you write in an explanation that they're going to get scholarships of 1600 kuna, and then when they come and knock on the Office's door, it's random, so I'm going to deal with women's problems, and then it turns out like this, this year the woman who got out of the shelter, the victim of violence, finds out for herself, finds out about this measure, finds the employer who's going to hire her, so this co-financing through the Employment Office, and she's nice to come out there and these people at the Bureau say, forgive right now, there's no money, we don't implement these measures. So I think really, let's just give it a fair answer once, if you say there's no money, this is a way that we of those who don't have a little bit more anyway so we can try to patch something up, not say here that they're going to get something new, that they're going to get overqualified and so on. In addition, do not continue to hold that impression of illusion, that now, workers will requalified, unemployed, in one way or another, complete foreign language courses, computer, etc., and then be welcomed by the labour market. What will the labour market meet them with? What jobs are colleagues and colleagues with? What we are in Croatia, which is this Government and what are the measures of economic recovery that the Government is projecting and I don't know what it is doing in the coming years, that it will create new jobs that will reduce the compensation, which will be requalified as a requalification of the power then and employment. That's what colleagues and colleagues are about, and I'd like you to at least be honest to the end of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58584	Thank you. And now we have one series of replicas. First is Honorable Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, colleagues Sobol, what you have found is that the government has not been able to create such economic activities during this past period that would increase the number of employees, that is, what is the basic problem and why this whole Employment Intervention and Employment Rights Act does not have its own great sense of purpose, because the fact that employment in Croatia is in decline, that the employment rate is much lower than in the European Union, but what is worst is that the unemployment rate is increasing and that it is much higher than in the European Union. The state of the Office of the Unemployment is such that in the last year, more than 50,000 are certain and the question now arises how and how did these people who came to this Office, who came from different production branches, who also have different personal incomes with which they came and how to start them, or to hire them. I think this part about retraining, especially for lovers who have a long-term internship at the Employment Bureau, for people who have low questions, I think it's like that very problematic. However, we must also conclude that at the Employment Service there are a large number of people who have graduated either from higher school or high school who are also in a situation where they cannot find jobs. And the question arises how do these unemployed lawyers, economists, or others be requalified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58586	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Sobol, pardon me. Replica esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58587	Dear fellow Sobol, in your presentation, you have made an unusually clear and plastic point to the complete absence of social and social responsibility in this law. Interestingly, the Republic of Croatia voted for acceptance through the Croatian Bureau of Standards which participated in the development of ISO 26000 standards on social responsibility in mid-September and the standard adopted by 66 votes in favour and 5 against a total of 71 countries that joined the vote. The norm is expected to officially become valid at the end of this year. It was therefore made by the International Standardisation Organisation to prevent such and similar situations in the United Nations Member States. So that the norm also has strong support for the United Nations, and it is also expected that a very strong recommendation from the UN and the UN government in the most recent future must be applied and installed in its legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58588	Thank you. Replicated representative of the Bors Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58589	Thank you very much. Fellow Sobol, surely we can look at the problem of unemployment from the economic side and it is part of the economic nature. Surely the economy can hire all those people looking for work and unemployment then we wouldn't be talking about this today. But you can't deny that it's certainly one of the major problems of labour market discrepancies with the needs of education and labour market needs of people who are educated. If you have read this proposed law, then you could notice normally based on statistical data, that this condition only from 32 years of training, where a person is entitled to this pension to full retirement, that it is simply destimulating for those people who would be involved in these education programmes, and precisely through these education programs they would be able to find themselves new jobs, because they are mostly people from 50 to 54 years of age. And so these are still people in good years, I can't say at the best of years, but I can say that they're also in good years and I can still give a lot in the world of work. And that's exactly why it's not necessary to underestimate this scholarship of 1,000 kn, which is precisely why it's another stimulating measure that these people who are depressed because they're jobless, to allow them to come to work with education, and will also receive that fee of 600 kn. So ask these people how much that fee means to them, like, a thousand grand. I mean you can't speak from your position, I believe it's a small fee for you. But for these people, it's an awful lot of money, and they stay in the world of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58590	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58591	Comrade Kunst, related to the market and the lack of harmonisation of labour market needs with the structure of educational persons, do we have too many workers, others etc. Is this only settled by the Law of Employment Intervention and Rights during unemployment? I expect we might have been able to get an analysis, so let's just say that in August, there's about a little more than 13% of the new ones at the school. Do those who have completed schooling meet the needs of the labour market in Croatia? And that's a question for a little wider and second debate, not just this one. I don't see the government doing anything about it. Secondly, you yourself know, Mr. Kunst, that the most difficult employees we say are older people of life, and the other thing is that they are still in full power, over 50 years of life. How do you think employers will now be easier to hire and faster to hire them because we will stimulate them that after 32 years of work, they are further educated or we don't think they want to be further educated. The problem in Croatia is that these most difficult employment categories are men and women over the age of 50, and it is precisely those who have 32 years of employment. And secondly, I'm asking you, it can be a fee if she's 32 years old at least she's using five years. If he's two or three years away from retirement, I ask you, where is this man going to end up? There is no word about it in this law, and there is also no word on who guarantees that additional scholarships will be given for further education because as I see it and now, according to what the Employment Office is doing, the same measure already exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58592	Time, thank you. Dear Representative Marija Lugarić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58593	Dear Mrs Sobol, you have well warned in your debate, and perhaps this is one of the good examples that shows the marked interdependence of the labour market and the education system. In this part of the special programme of attending this proposal for scholarships, it should be said that in Croatia it is not enough to grant a scholarship for the educational programme, but that educational programme should also be given. What is the problem with us and what is the system of accreditation of the programme, so the verification of the providers themselves, so not everyone can educate adults for the labour market. And there's a complete mess in that part, and the state agencies that should be dealing with the primary adult education agency because that's what this is about, we've shut down this agency of colleagues and colleagues. We have brought her together with the Professional Education Agency, which deals with secondary vocational schools, although these programmes for old and unemployed persons are about programmes of foreign languages and information courses that are not vocational programmes, but general education programmes. So if we have an unrelated system of education and labour markets here, and on the other hand, in the educational part, we have a complete mess. I repeat, in the absence of a system, it is clear that accreditation is then the consequent existence of programs that have the correct verification so that they can be entered into the workbook as such, so to speak, and there is no accompanying institution that would develop these programmes from the point of view of education, and not from the point of view of the economy itself, all together. We have programs that may sound good, people may work well, but we spend money on something that won't ultimately produce any result, and actually give people false hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58594	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58595	Thank you, colleague Lugaric. I'm going to use your replica to give just one more little illustration in the way that obviously when such laws are written, they suggest such laws that they don't actually think that they're concerned with living people, not that they're produced in cabinets, and that, plus that in the explanations, they don't give complete data because it was obviously hard for someone to write a slightly wider explanation. In support of the fact that those who are at the Employment Office and in support of the fact that they are not lazy and that they want to be further educated, that they want to requalify to eventually find a new job, they also say that by 31 August of this year, some 9120 of the various measures incentivise employment to more than 50% of the waste is precisely the part relating to education. So, and now over 50% of those who use the measures offered by the Employment Service are precisely measures that go to additional education, retraining and so forth. So I'm just talking about the absurdity of this law and it's only in reason that there's going to be something new about it. There will be nothing new from what already exists at the Employment Service.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58596	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with a colleague. My colleagues and colleagues. A number of my colleagues have been very reasoned about the reasons why we as a club cannot support the adoption of this law. We have before us a law that, if we adopt it, means less benefits for the unemployed. It is, unfortunately, the second-in-a-kind reduction the government proposes in just a year. I remember last year in July when we discussed and reduced unemployment benefits, then State Secretary Mr. Pavlovic said that he proposed the measure as a temporary measure and that it would last until the end of this year. When a measure is as negative as this measure, and then the promoter has declared it a temporary measure then it is logical to expect that the next measure or amendment of the law will be a return to the old one, and you do not expect that the unemployed will again experience a reduction of compensation because we are telling them that the one they received was large or as if they were able to eat with what they had. My colleagues and colleagues, I believe that at a time of stability or at a time of prosperity, the government cannot afford such a non-chalant attitude towards the problem of the unemployed in general, let alone at a time of crisis. To go over a part of the crisis to those who are really the most vulnerable category in society, which is what we do with this law, means to implement a truly unserious policy, meaning they can't recognize the direction to go, so I'd say palitative, non-constitutional and non-substantial measures. Why the unemployed? It is not just that, however, the reason is actually very simple. They're harmless. They are harmless because they are existentially threatened, because they are disorganized because who will organise them, and they are politically and socially marginalized and they are placed in some kind of record of excess and unnecessary. Why we're going to move on them, not why, but because, precisely for the reasons I've cited, we're going to transfer a part of the burden to them by reducing unemployment benefits. And the reasoning that the billmaker gives is indeed, at the very least, discouraging. Apparently, those fees don't stimulate the unemployed to look for work. My colleagues and colleagues, for me this explanation is truly outrageous because indirectly the Government is ordering is not a problem in us, it is not a problem in our policy, it is not a problem in our ability or incompetence, it is a problem in Croatian citizens whose aim is to seize and live well with such support. Some people here think you can live well with that. Mr. Secretary of State has on several occasions used the term cost, they are for company expenses. Are there then societies and states that are free of such and similar costs? However, the fundamental difference between countries that are successful in combating unemployment and those that are not successful is that they are aware of social potential and are successful in using these potentials for some new social development and leap. In order for it to be possible to recognize the real development chances of society, I think you should know that all societies in this world have only two levers. One is human, and the other is space in the broadest sense of that word. I believe that the government has also shown its incompetence regarding human relations as a developmental resource and space, in the broadest sense of the word. When it comes to people, and here we are talking about the unemployed, then we need to know that the unemployed are not the cause but are the result of poor economic policy and system. So these people are unemployed not by their own fault, not because they wanted it so, but by the guilt of those who were paid to ensure their employment. The money that stands out for compensation is, by my deep conviction, insignificant in relation to the money spent on their education for their non-existent occupations. And the reason for their detention, the long stay we've heard about from Mr. Secretary of State, is not on the stock market in high fees. In no way can it be but in the absence of any systematic policy towards this army of people not only in the absence of politics, I would say even in the absence of empathy towards these people. Well, my colleague Kunst showed it so clearly when he replicated his colleague Sobol. Says fellow Sobol, so it may not be big money for you, but for who it is. So can you live well with 1500 kuna? Can a $1,500 buy an apartment? Is it $ 1500 a month that can be fed? It's a wonderful example of the absence of any empathy towards that already army of people. And I believe that the society that applies to this category, which is also pushed on the margins of social life, actually has no real chance of development and in general for the success of any kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58598	Thank you. We have one replica of Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58599	The main feature you have well pointed out of this law is that by ruling, the government expressed contempt by such a bill, contempt for those called upon to protect. Employees, the ones who stay unemployed tomorrow. Those who have only one desire to get a job and live off their work. When you say that for power, they are too high, the most vulnerable, the weak, too weak to stand up to it. Yeah, that's how it was until yesterday, but it's not like that anymore. And that's what turned the ruling one on. How come those weak, scared suddenly have the strength to stand up. It's very simple. It's precisely because these forces of theirs have become a great danger to each other who are now united. And they know well that these authorities no longer have what to expect, that this government has nothing to do with them anymore, but they will do for it in the first election.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58600	Mrs. Jerkovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58601	Thank you very much. My colleague Anticevic, the proposal for this law is actually proof of a bad policy that did not recognise the crisis when it was necessary and which did not take adequate measures when it was necessary. The result today is a huge number of unemployed and the government doesn't know what to do with them, but it really doesn't know what to do with them except take away what little they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58602	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Ante Kulusic. And Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58603	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, since I've been here and there's no Mr. Kunst, I think you've made an absolutely wrong point. So, his quote. He didn't say it without having feelings, without empathy, how of them I don't know a few thousand can live, but he said that it's good for those few thousand when the man doesn't have them and that he stays in the world of work at the same time. ... 1600. [[You can't hear it.]] And better and 1600, just a little bit. It's better to stay in the world of work than to be without it. So he said from the position of one who has a lot more that then is not significant. Someone who doesn't have it, then it's important, too. So he did not say in that context. I mean, we all know that here, and I think we have to say it correctly because Mr. Kunst isn't here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58604	We have a correction that was registered by the gentleman, that Christmas Solic also came forward, but I didn't see it. But allow me, here, let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58605	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a quote from my colleague, Jerkovic. She said in her debate that the fees were insignificant. My colleague, Jerkovic, I absolutely believe that this is not true and I am sure because every man who is left without a job is very well compensated. Obviously, you don't understand that, because if you understood how good the compensation is then the SDP would not have had an 18% cut in the city of Zagreb. Have the courage of the SDP gentlemen to take off that cut in the recession year and to help every man who's busy, to have a higher salary. Every man who is retired to have a bigger pension, and in the same way you will help the economy in the city of Zagreb. Because these 18% have been proven to use for your promotion and courtship to the citizens of the city of Zagreb. And I've been listening to you all morning for how long you've been courting, but in one false and transparent way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58606	Thank you. Mrs. Brankko has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58607	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with a colleague, dear colleagues and colleagues. This draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment is the fourth model in the last four years, but one thing is common to all, and this is the perception of unemployed people as extremely lazy and contemplative people. The unemployment allowance is the right of workers to work on which, in the event of a loss of employment over a certain period of time, certain material security, however, has already introduced a new Employment Intervention and Rights Act during the 2008 unemployment period, which has also placed us among the countries with the lowest fees in the European Union, which has introduced a significant difference between the highest and lowest fees, depending on the level of wage with which the worker enters unemployment, without setting the lower limit, or the lowest fee. Let us remind the previous law defined the lowest fee of 20% of the average salary in the economy, in the last quarter of 2008, it amounted to a thousand and 34 kuna. By ignoring earlier, this law now proposes an even lower fee, instead of 50% for a 90-day period until the end of the fee, now it is proposed that 35%, which will reduce the fee to those who enter unemployment with a minimum wage compared to the end of 2008 by about 300 kuna, with a cynical finding that a low fee of 770 kuna would significantly stimulate their inclusion in educational activities. This is more cynical when it is known, for example, that the Croatian Institute for Employment of Unemployed Workers who joined the Government's paid programme for Croatian literacy, the way to the desired future for the disease from 2003 to 2012, in order to complete the primary school, did not pay travel costs, which is why many of them gave up, because this cost is recognised only to those who are perfecting, and people without primary school are not perfected. Low unemployment benefits theory as an educational measure to encourage the unemployed to seek work, i.e. to detimulate them for longer stays at the office falls into the water as soon as relatively high fees are taken into account, for example, those who enter unemployment with average and higher wages. Turns out that sloths and uneducated are only those with a minimum wage that should be further punished and compensation slightly greater than social aid. The fact is, however, that there are also highly educated workers that employers report on a minimum wage with a difference in hands, or workers of an acceptable level and structure of education paid in 2009 and 2010 due to a crisis temporarily reduced, the legislator is absolutely not interested. In particular, it should be pointed out that during 2009 and 2010, in a number of activities such as processing industry, construction, trade, collective contract annexes between employers and trade unions, and in order to preserve jobs, wages and other material rights have already been significantly reduced to minimum wage levels. So when these workers end up at the Employment Service, they're being punished twice. Over a period of time, they received minimum wage, and in the future they will receive a minimum fee during unemployment, which will be at the level of social assistance. The draft law is also unacceptable in the context of a joint EU-RH memorandum on the priorities of the employment policy of the Republic of Croatia in 2008 which said it appears that unemployment benefits do not create a serious unemployment trap, and that there is a need to consider the possibility of differentiating unemployment benefits according to family opportunities, in order to make it more helpful and tailored to specific circumstances in individual households. Finally, I will look back on article 6 of this bill, which is why we cannot accept this bill, because it introduces years of work, at least 32 and age as a condition of obtaining the right to so-called. a permanent pension fee, especially since the Croatian Employment Service is generally failed in the function of intermediating and hiring older workers, especially older women who are statistically shown to be absolutely unemployable. The consequence of such changes to the law is as follows. The Republic of Croatia becomes a country with the lowest fees in the European Union, the Republic of Croatia violates obligations made by international contracts whose signature is and the compensation is further reduced and the criteria for the exercise of the right to so-called. a permanent fee, which significantly lowers the social security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia rather than further protecting themselves under the conditions of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58608	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58609	Dear colleagues, in many ways, it could be agreed that this is indeed the fourth model and fourth lawmaking, but with the new law and every new day unemployment is growing in Croatia. However, it is not as much a problem with these laws as with the way of leading the state and the fact that no one is paying anyone today and that internal debt is such that it represents a bigger problem than external debt. The most affected by Slavonia, a region which Croatia apparently forgot. And a colleague from HDZ who talked here about the introduction of the cut, I just remind her to look at the well-red blue posters from 2007 and look at all the haraches that have been introduced since 2007, and all the affairs that Croatia is having today, so she will see that this has affected the decline of the standards of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the collapse of the economy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58610	Thank you. Answer. Any answers? There isn't. Thank you. And Mr. Davor Bernardich. Here you go. It's a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58611	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I see it's time to vote. So when we talk about these incentives, The right of mediation during unemployment should then be kept in mind some things that are very important now to say. So a reduction in compensation will make education completely impossible for some people, and that should be said. Why, if there has already been a reduction in the fee with an explanation that this will achieve support in education did not introduce support for education? Not a fee reduction. Also, this is one example that a sure thing won't be solved because... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58612	Let's hear it from a colleague, if we can keep it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58613	Yeah, there's nothing we can do. Okay, here's a little sticky in the hall. So when it first went to cut unemployment benefits, 100 million kuna were provided to provide support for these same people. But out of these 100 million kunas, only 800 thousand kunas were spent, and it was actually de facto a reason to go to a reduction in unemployment benefits. And now we have a similar proposal with a crazy explanation that in this way they will be made fully possible. better access to additional educational content. That doesn't make any sense. Because then if you want to do this, you provide support for education, not cut benefits during unemployment. And these are the things simply that, in the light of this very proposal, are contradictory to one another. Otherwise, when we talk about it, Croatia is a country that has a large share of subsidies in GDP, and a large share should be said. However, Croatia is a country that has one of the lowest rates compared to the European average. share of active employment measures, somewhere at 0.7% of GDP. So Croatia has one of the lowest rates compared to the gross social employment product of 0.7%. The only policy that can be long-term sustainable is the creation of an investment climate. So it encourages investors through various tax and other discharges. Another systematic support is the creation of new jobs, and this comes from the merger of the knowledge and labour markets and with what the state can offer, which is precisely to support the creation of new jobs that are lowest in Croatia compared to other European countries. And the third system is a system of structural reforms that simply must follow. And without it, it will not be possible to remove this country long-term from the crisis or put it on the path of sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58614	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58615	Thank you very much. Mr Bernardić stressed that the buildings are doing nothing but building and that the Croatian Parliament is making us Croatian parliamentary representatives who we are talking about right now, and we are not listening to each other. So hospitals, hospitals don't make walls, make great nurses, great doctors, and so should be in the Croatian Assembly. Something our colleague Bernardic did in 2000 and 2003 was called from college to work. So, all of us who ended up at that time were immediately getting a job especially those like you fellow Bernardic or like me who ended up first in a generation of sumum laude or magna cum laude. On the other hand, unfortunately it didn't happen. They had a great proposal we've been making for the last two, three years. Reduce contributions for the first 2, 3 years of employment. Our employers suffer and in this way you will help and... to reduce the cost of work. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] So, you have good suggestions seven, eight years ago, you have great suggestions seven, eight months ago and you read, adopt, implement, we will, of course, look forward to accepting our proposals. Thank you very much, dear colleague Bernardich.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58616	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Bernardich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58617	Well, here's exactly on the trail of this integration of education and labour markets. On the one hand, we do not tax capital and property, but on the other hand we are reducing the rights of the unemployed, taxing additionally the work, and with this move which is the only goal in the pre-election year is to artificially reduce the number of unemployed, because de facto with this move, and with this bill, it will be possible to manipulate statistics in some period from the next 6, 9 or 12 months. But what I keep in mind can't be an explanation in the bill that people will go to further education because these certain fees are reduced. Then give support for education, not a reduction in support for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58618	Thank you. And five minutes on behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58619	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I have the privilege of speaking in front of a full assembly, of course, which is quite naughty as always before the vote, but I hope those who are interested will hear this. I would like to say to my colleague Vidovic openly that of course it is not the basic reason why the HNS-HSU club will not support this law is not because we are in a position but because the same cake is divided into much more tiny slices and they are trying to satisfy the growing number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. Just so people don't get it wrong, our citizens don't get it. That's the essential reason, and of course we can't support it for that. I also want to draw attention to the fact that scholarships for training are good, but they are not their own goal. It is not intended to train for a new job if there is no such job on the market. Our problem is the underdeveloped labour market and the lack of concrete work. Everyone wants to trade, and rarely anyone wants to create a fundamental new value through production. And one question that hasn't been touched in the debate today, and the question is why craftsmen can't use unemployment rights. The craftsman stops working for the sake of death, because of the inability to do the job or because of the fall in traffic, which means that the burdens imposed by the state are disproportionate to the traffic that they have, therefore, do not allow them to earn and close the crafts. Some even try to work illegally further. So one is a fact that we can't ignore, they've been paying a fair contribution at 1.7% on the gross salary they pay and not all craftsmen have been craftsmen since the beginning of their working life. Some may have worked for 25 years at a state or private company, so the last five years have been craftsmen and have somehow been hit by this lack of work monster. So there are different variants of craftsmen that a priority cannot use rights during employment and pay contributions. So esteemed colleagues and colleagues if we can't expect high business morality as counterpart Maric said in entrepreneurs, why can't we expect the state's justice to those who pay contributions. If we can't give them the rights then let's say we free them from paying the contributions and let's say people, you're smarter to pay in a case of mutual help so you can eat when you're not going to have a job on the market objectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58620	Finally, on behalf of the motionary, Mr. Secretary of State Krešimir Rogman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58621	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. So, what I said at the beginning I will repeat and especially what I said at the beginning I will repeat, and especially given the objections, to the idealessness in resolving employment by this Law. I have to say what is known by the Employment Mediation and Rights Act during unemployment anywhere in the world personally does not solve the problem of employment in itself, it is solved by all other means by opening jobs in another way. This law deals fundamentally with mediation, resolves fees as passive measures and a framework for active measures of incentives for employment. But even these active measures, and nowhere else in the world, do not increase employment significantly, thus enabling employment in the first instance of more difficult employment categories, jobs are being opened to other measures. And these other measures are included in the government's economic recovery programme, from those measures concerning the economy, industry and education, and I have to say once again, to point out what I said at the beginning. Although unemployment has increased, employment has also been increased by a percentage that is very high compared to last year, 18.2%. Unfortunately, because of the problem, the number of unemployed has increased because there have been more layoffs but this dynamic, therefore, job creation has really started. Of course other measures are being implemented. It has been tried to implement this reduction of working time as one measure of incentives that did not give success in the basic law, so the law has been amended, but I must say that this measure, which was otherwise adopted on the basis of a joint, single union and employers proposal, has not given sufficient success in other countries either. In doing so, I have to point out another problem in Croatia when reducing working time. In no programme of care worked with employers, neither unions nor workers suggested that instead of firing any part of the workers, that all workers or a larger group of workers work part-time, so the proposal never came to fire me, 50 workers should 100 work in half their working hours. These measures have just been systematic. So, the reduction of compensation after the first part of the fee, is something that existed in Croatia and something that exists everywhere in the world and in Europe, and this reduction of compensation not only has a goal, it is not the primary objective, financially, of course some countries can afford more than some, but it has just that motivation. So the fee has to be limited, it has to fall because it's one, even if it seemed such a theoretical way to motivate people to get a job. And as much as it's going to be in total, it's usually from state to state depending on its possibilities. And on the other hand, what is neglected is the reduction of fees, the reduction of rights, and on the other hand we introduce an increase in the right through longer benefits in the case of long-term unemployment, and that even amounts to more so, 30 million costs this more than this reduction in compensation, therefore, it is a very systematic solution. It is also a systematic solution to aligning with the Law on Pension Rights, therefore with this Proposal of the Law, so I point out that there are prudent and serious and systematic measures and, finally, just to say about the education and coherence of education with the labour market, what is done by the Employment Office, it does indeed according to the needs of the labour market, according to the needs of employers. Educational programmes are not being done by the Institute, are being done on the basis of a serious poll by employers and are adapted to the needs of employers. And the problem of adapting the entire education system to labour market needs is, of course, included in the government's programme of economic recovery, however, it is something that is very long-term, cannot be resolved in a short time, the system of secondary education, the system of higher education, etc., it is a long-term measure that must be addressed in the long term, but it has been seen by the government in good time, accepted, installed into the programme, and that is what will work in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58622	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58623	We should put order in the courtroom, this is the assembly room. These are not stimulative measures, but these are measures that will lead the unemployed further into poverty. On the other hand, look at how the economy is especially Slavonski for us, so you will see how much gross profit is in the economy and how much unemployment increases. On the side of public works and digging canals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58624	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. You'll decide something later. 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment, first reading, P.Z. Number 598. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Mediation and Rights Act is adopted during unemployment. 2. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the Final Bill." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was voted in favour of most votes, 79 votes in favour, one abstention and 52 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58627	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the start of acting as deputy representative of Dinko Buric. So, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 34th session held on 22 September 2010 discussed the notice of the appointment of a deputy representative who submitted the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja to the Croatian Parliament in an act of 24 August 2010. As Branimir Glavas was elected representative on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja in the 4th Election Unit, based on Article 10(3) of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament suspended the parliamentary term of office of 2 June 2010, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja in accordance with Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament ordered Mr. Dinko Buric as deputy representative in the election unit to start acting as a representative. The commission found that legal conditions were met for the start of acting as deputy deputy representative Dinko Buric. Accordingly, the Mandate-Immunity Commission is based on Articles 11 and 12. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 6 votes in favour, proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the start of acting as deputy deputies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will begin acting as deputy representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58628	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal. Score. The proposal was accepted by most votes, 120 votes for, nothing abstentions and one against. And now I call on new representative Dinka Buric to swear. First, I will read the text of the oath and then call upon an advocate who swears by standing up and saying the words I swear. The text of the oath reads: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will uphold the Constitution and the law, the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58630	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58631	Thank you. Congratulations and I wish to successfully carry out the duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Please move on, Mr. Sesvecan. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58632	Report on the request for authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Slavko Linic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 34th session held on 22 September 2010 the notice of the Municipal Court in Rijeka of 23 July 2010 that private complaint by private prosecutor Oliver Grbić of Zagreb against Slavko Linić was received on the grounds of a criminal offence referred to in Articles 1 and 2 and the criminal offence referred to in Articles 200(1) and 2. Penalty law. Since Mr Slavko Linić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of 13 December 2006 laying down the rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of the European Parliament and The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly the decision: "In the course of the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings before the Municipal Court in Rijeka against MP Slavko Linic, after the private lawsuit of Prosecutor Oliver Grbić of Zagreb, is denied due to the criminal offence referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 1 and the crime of slander referred to in Articles 200 paragraphs 1 and 2. The Penal Code."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58633	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a proposal to the Mandate-Immunity Commission to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The proposal was accepted by most votes, 124 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have done that part of the agenda we have planned and I announce that the continuation of the session will be held on 29.9. at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda point, the first item of the agenda of the draft law on the confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, the national representatives of international staff, with the final draft of the law, the emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 593. So, 29.9 at 9.30. I want everyone to have a nice weekend and I'll see you next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58634	We are going to the Report on the termination of the term of office of representative Djurdja Adlesic and the termination of the post of deputy representative Antun Korusec. Representative of the Mandate Commission, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58635	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 35th session held on 19 October 2010 a written statement by MP Djurđa Adlešić of 13 October 2010 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament about the re-behaving of the parliamentary duty. The Commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term of Mrs Djurdji Adlesic, elected on the joint list of the Croatian Peasant Party and the Croatian Social and Liberal Party in the second election unit, began on 11 January 2008 for personal reasons on the basis of Article 14(1). Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and that her deputy Mr. Antun Korusec started acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament on 11 January 2008. As Mrs Djurdja Adlesic presented to the President of the Croatian Parliament a statement on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duty on 13 October 2010. The commission found that Đurđi Adlesic's term of office ended on the eighth day from the day of the application, and that the same day ended the conduct of deputy deputy representative Antun Korusec's post. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the discussion was carried out pursuant to Article 14(3) of the Treaty, Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament that a decision be taken to suspend the term of office of representative and to suspend the conduct of the deputy representative's office. On 21 October 2010, the term of office of representative Đurđa Adlešić, deputy representative Mr Antun Korusec, stopped acting on 21 October 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58636	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the report and the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I note that the report was adopted unanimously with 105 votes in favour, and the swearing of Ms. Djurdja Adlesic will probably be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58637	My colleagues and colleagues before continuing to work on this agenda, I call on the new representative, Djurdju Adlesic, to give the oath. You have received the report and the conclusion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. My colleague Adleshitch is here. I will first read the text of the oath and afterwards call upon a representative who swears to rise and utter the word of the oath. But first, I will say the text of the oath, which reads: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise my duty as a representative in the Croatian Parliament in a conscientious and responsible manner and that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia."
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58638	I swear. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58639	Thank you very much. Congratulations to my colleague Adlesic. She's not in these benches for the first time, she's back here, she says four times. And we're moving on with the debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58640	We now have a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58641	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The first is the report, Report on the suspension of MP Mladen Barisic's term of office and the beginning of the term of office of Mr Mladen Barisic. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 36th session held on 20 October 2010 discussed the written request by Mr Mladen Barisic, addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 7 October 2010 for the suspension of the term of office, since he ceased his duties which is incompatible with the representative. In its request, it declares that it shall put its representation mandate on hold at the same time as the date of activation. Peace of parliamentary term Mladen Barisic, elected on the Croatian Democratic Community list in the first election unit, pursuant to Article 9. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 11 January 2008, due to the incompatibility of the State Secretary's duties with the MP, and with the same day, Mr Krešimir Gulić begins acting as a deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament. Krešimir Gulić's duties as representative ceases to behave on 15 February 2010, and with the day of 19 February 2010 as deputy representative Mladen Barisic begins acting as representative of Ms. Djurdjica Sumrak. The Commission found that Mr Mladen Barisic had been relieved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 29 September 2010, of the office of State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and in accordance with Article. Article 13(1) The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has submitted a written application within the legal time limit for the continuation of the conduct of the parliamentary office, which fulfils the conditions for the suspension of the stay of the parliamentary term of office on the eighth day of the day from the date of submission of the application. How Mr Mladen Barisic, at the same time as the day of activation, put his mandate in line with the article. Article 14(1) The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament has established that the conditions for the start of the term of office of Mr Mladen Barisic and the conditions for continuing the conduct of Ms Djurdice Sumrak's parliamentary office as deputies have been laid down by law. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission after the debate has been held, based on Article. Paragraphs 1 and 13 shall apply. Paragraph 14 of this Regulation shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and Art. 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 9 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of MPs and the start of the term of office of representative Mladen Barisic as of 15 October 2010, ceases to be in office and, on the same day, the term of office begins to rest. The parliamentary duty as deputy representative continues to act as Mrs. Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58642	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mr Arsen Bauk first reported on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58643	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would only like a few sentences to refer to the legal aspect of the activation of Mr Mladen Barisic's new mandate. Mr Mladen Barisic was found to be incompatible with the mandate of the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission at the constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament on 11 January 2008 because he was then acting as Director of the Customs Administration in the rank of Assistant Minister. After that, on January 17, 6 days later, the government appointed him head of the Customs Administration in the rank of State Secretary, which was published in "The People's No. 10/2008." It was then held on 30 July 2009. The government relieved the secretary of state and re-named the secretary of state at the same session. So, on July 30, 2009, "The People's newspaper 98/09." and the latest events well-known to us by the government have resolved it. So, Mr. Mladen Barisic was appointed twice during the incompatibility of his duties and he changed his rank twice, so he was the Assistant Minister and became State Secretary, and yet we activate his mandate, which I think is fine, but this would have to be stressed because of possible similar cases of MPs whose mandate had been frozen, changing duties, changing the ministries and changing the ranks in which they were. So that should be emphasized because this is actually a very similar case. And if I wasn't reporting for the next report, just keep an eye on these papers that are on your benches, it could blow up a little bit of glass and cause a mess in the assembly room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58644	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Please include and vote on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on Mr Barisic's parliamentary duties. Here you go. Thank you. I'm asking for a result. This report was accepted by most votes, 107 votes in favour, four abstentions and one against. I'd like the chairman of the committee, Mr. Damir Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58645	The following is the report on the suspension of the term of office of representative Dr. Ive Sanader and cease to act as deputy deputy representative of Zeljana Podruga. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 36th session held on 20 October 2010 discussed the written statement by Dr. Ivo Sanader of 14 October 2010 informing the president of the Croatian Parliament to activate his parliamentary mandate. The Commission has determined that Dr. Evey Sanader, selected on the HDZ list in the 10th constituency of election. Nine. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament began on 11 January 2008 because of the incompatibility of the behaviour of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the representative and that Mrs. Željana Pozdi started acting as a deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament on 11 January 2008. On discharge from the post of Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on 6 July 2009 Dr. Ivo Sanader, at the same time as the request for the suspension of the term of office under Article. 13th submitted pursuant to Article. 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and a request to settle his mandate as of 15 July 2009. How's dr. Ivo Sanader submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 14 October 2010 a written statement on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duties, which the commission found to be in accordance with his article. Article 14(3) The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly shall end on the eighth day from the day of its application and shall cease the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Zeljana Podrug, on the same day. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission after the debate has been held under Article. Article 14(3) Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and art. 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 9 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament to suspend the term of office of MPs and to cease acting as deputy deputies. On 22 October 2010, the term of office of representatives of Dr. Ivo Sanader, deputy representative of Zeljana Podrji on 22 October 2010, ceases to act as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58646	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting this proposal to the vote of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was adopted by a majority of 97 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 2 against. If there's a new representative, Ivo Sanader could come and solve the issue of making a solemn oath. Please, as long as the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament does not decide where anyone will be sitting in the Assembly, the new representative Dr. Ivo Sanader will sit where Mrs Podrug has been sitting so far, and when the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament makes the right decisions about changing places, then we will do so. If there's no Mr. Eve Sanader, we're moving on with the agenda, when he shows up, we can do this. I will now read the oath, the text of the oath to be given before the Croatian Parliament. I call upon the new representative of Mr. Ivo Sanader to swear. First I'll read the text of the oath and then I'll call an advocate who swears by standing up and saying the word "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia.".
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58648	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58649	Congratulations to the new representative, and I want success in acting as a representative. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the final draft of the law of termination... Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58650	I apologize, if we've already adopted and voted Mr. Sanader... Swearing, you said where Mr. Sanader had his place. [[The speaker's off, he doesn't understand.]] It means that a man is free of a place to sit, and that's where Mrs. Kalash sat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58651	Thank you. I've warned twice, I'm not going to commit any violence against anyone here, this decision, what you've made in place, no one has approved and it's illegal. Here you go, Mrs. Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58652	Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I was instructed by my club to sit here within the schedule of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. I ask the president of the club to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58653	In our Rules of Procedure, I ask that this be an explanation for all possible cases that may happen in the future. The decision on where to sit shall be taken by the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of clubs etc. and when the proposal comes to the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament from the HDZ Club of Representatives, it will be in 10 days, then we will finally decide. Is that clear? We move on to the Final Proposal for a law on the termination of the Agency's work on the promotion of exports. Here you go, Mr. Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58654	Mr. President, I need to explain to you the decision of the Representatives' Club. We've suggested I suggest a place like this, and you didn't want to call Parliament's presidency, if you'd called it, you'd have ours. So our proposal came to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58655	Please, I didn't want to, but the Bureau of Parliament never met just because of where someone would be sitting in the bench, so it didn't meet today, because it was sitting until 12:00. I told you Mr. President of the club here that Mr. Sanader should sit in the same place, where Mrs. Zeljana Pondor sat until that moment until the Croatian Parliament presidency decided where Mr. Representative Sanader and some others where the change took place in Vinkovic and I don't know who was also sitting. And that's just fine, and I don't think there's any problem with that. No problems should be caused because the Croatian Parliament presidency will bring about a feature no club can separately bring that feature that should apply to all of us here. Let's move on, though I can see she insists on it. As President of the Croatian Parliament, I have my own objection to such behaviour and I have brought it out here in public. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Srb. What is it now?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58656	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking you nicely not to introduce yourself from the seat of MPs in the Assembly. I call on the HDZ Representatives' Club to behave accordingly, because there are too many unemployment growths in this country to deal with different performances here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58657	Here, the seat of Dr. Ivo Sanader's representative has been released to take the place where the lady was. Here comes Mr. Hebrang again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58658	On behalf of the club, I am withdrawing our proposal until the Bureau of Parliament is agreed... [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58659	How do you resolve that there was a mistake with a colleague, Vujic? I think it's a prememory written to address the public and the whole region, isn't it? The mandate-immunity commission, chairman of the Mandate Commission, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58660	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the request for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Dinko Buric of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. At the 37th session held on 4 November 2010, the Court of Justice's request in Osijek for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Dinko Buric, initiated by the private lawsuit of Prosecutor Tomislav Ivić of Valpov for the crime of slander referred to in Articles 200(1) and 2. Penalty law. Dinko Burić is a representative of the sixth convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of this Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament: during the term of its term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Dinko Buric in Case K-214/10-06 under the private suit of Prosecutor Tomislav Ivić of Valpov for the offence of the libel referred to in Articles 200(1) and 2. Penalty law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58661	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to read first from the report that we got on the benches of the 2 sentences. Namely, "It is the commission's position that the Institute of Immunity is established in order to protect the dignity of the parliamentary duties, not in order to protect the representatives as an individual. And the conduct of the criminal proceedings," and now I stress this, "as well as all the actions that would have to be taken in connection with this could make it impossible for a representative to act as his regular representative and thus affect the work of the Croatian Parliament. The criminal proceedings may be initiated after the end of the term of office, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out." So, in this case, when Mr. Buric completes his parliamentary term, this process will continue because it is a private lawsuit for which we are not removing immunity for something Mr. Buric said at a press conference. And let them continue their case. However, this sentence, which speaks of disabling a representative in the conduct of his regular representation duties, which, of course, also affects the work of the Croatian Parliament, gives me the right to speak on this subject of another case, which is the case of our colleague Damir Kajin who today cannot be in the session because he is called to court for a private lawsuit for something he said in the Croatian Parliament. For private reasons, therefore, a case for compensation for damages he has said in the Croatian Parliament. I therefore believe that this is about a rough precedent where a public institution that corresponds to the Croatian Assembly sues the Croatian Parliament's representative for something he said at the session. This is totally absurd and it is a rude act of Article 76(2). The constitution that speaks of immunity of MPs is not about criminal proceedings but about what he said in the Croatian Parliament. I'll read you that item. "A representative cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for an opinion or vote in the Croatian Parliament." If an interpretation is allowed to be submitted to damages claims already in the first next debate on the Report on the INA Investigation Commission, MOL may sue any advocate for any spoken word. And that would be a rough precedent. So that I don't come under the possibility of being sued for giving my opinion, I'll give two other people's opinions in an explanation. One professor of constitutional law at the Zagreb Faculty of Law, Mr Robert Podoljnjak, is published today in a daily newspaper whose name I cannot say that these other daily newspapers would not sue me for damages because I am advertising another daily newspaper. Therefore, he believes that the representative cannot be punished in any way for the opinion he expressed in the Croatian Parliament and that the court should have applied the Constitution directly and dismissed the suit. Because if such a practice were adopted, we would be in a situation where the Institute of Immunity would be of no use at all, and the Constitution clearly states that a representative cannot be punished for what he said in the Assembly, and that means neither criminal nor financial in a civil lawsuit, nor criminally. He believes that the constitutional provision cannot be interpreted in a way that an opinion advocate in the Assembly cannot answer the truth criminally but that damages can be sued in a civil proceedings. In that case, the financial penalty would often be more severe than the sentence of the sentence in criminal proceedings and there would be nothing left of the institution of immunity. This would limit the right of the MPs to speak freely in the Assembly, concluded Mr Podonjak, an expert on constitutional law, therefore not a politician of general practice such as we are here. We therefore consider that there is a reasonable reason for me to use Mr. Vice-President your formulation to consider the application of Article 129(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The constitution says that the Constitutional Court is monitoring the fulfillment of constitutionality and legality that even in this case the President of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the law, is taking some steps to resolve the case so that we too can speak freely in the Croatian Parliament. If Mr. Cain remains in what he said let him have the guts to repeat it outside the hall and sue him and if he has to pay for the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58663	Did you propose to consider the application of Article 129? The Constitution? It's 129. The Constitution to consider or what? That's the court's case now. Agent Cain is sad if I'm not wrong about HRTV, right? Under civil civil law. We will see whether the court will accept the objection that a representative cannot in such a case be invited to any kind of responsibility, and that is now in the area of the judicial independent authority. If fate is an independent government, I will not speak my personal opinion here with which I agree. Who goes in favor of what his colleague, Bauk, brought out. I also believe that in the Croatian Parliament, a representative can say anything unpunished. There is only the strict responsibility of the MPs who express the firm measures to the president and the chairman of the Assembly, the firm measures, the reminders, etc. which goes on. There are immunitys also decided by the Croatian Parliament but for the word and opinion given in the Croatian Parliament, it is my view that the representative and the representative cannot be held accountable on any basis. And if the court accepts this objection to the office. If he does not accept it, it will eventually reach the Croatian Assembly, as well as the Constitutional Court. Because if indeed MPs are to and must be responsible for the spoken word and opinion expressed in this assembly and on the basis of the property damage, then we can all really find ourselves in a position to answer or to remain silent. A representative and a representative in my position would be able to answer if they were to make a serious threat to physical violence, a threat to murder, that there would be a basis and that there would not protect immunity for such a spoken word of violence, and for this second, let's wait to see how further things will develop. But it's a good thing we pointed out and made this problem come to mind. You're saying that I should speak louder? Okay, so you're joining that, too? [[/Intruder: That's right.]] Okay. Not to yell but because it is difficult to distinguish between shouting and loudness especially those who have good hearing. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate Commission. Please let us vote. The result? With 93 votes in favour, one abstention and one against the proposed conclusion. Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. What? Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58664	A fellow vice president, but right now in the role of First Vice President of the Parliament, and I am speaking to you as vice president here are my colleagues from the opposition ranks. Namely, we're all here in the assembly just along the way to see you next Wednesday. As far as I know, the Bureau made decisions on the duration of the session and the agenda at its last meeting. This was the last time the announcement was made in one week. But right now, we don't even know how long this session is going to last, or if it's going to stop at all. Maybe it doesn't stop until the next election. The information we get as agents and vice presidents is from journalists. I think it would be my turn to officially inform, by respecting this House and every MP here as deputies, of the duration of this session, and as vice presidents, we actually think it would be good to call the Parliament's presidency in this situation, so that we don't have this kind of debate, but to deal with it that way. The president of the parliament or as counterpart Gabric said earlier is on his way, but he has his official first deputy to change him not only by authority but when he is permanently absent. Mr. Vice President Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58665	That's what the Businessman says.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58666	We'd like official information on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58667	That is what it says in President-in-Office's decision by a President-in-Office of the Parliament to replace him permanently during his absence or prevention. Now I'm carrying that burden right now. My colleague Antunović, you're right. I will inform you immediately as soon as the President of the Parliament returns from the official road from Poland. So there will probably be a session of parliament's presidency Wednesday. And so far, in accordance with my burden, which I am carrying, for the time being, I am setting a session of the Assembly for the 10th, 11th and 12th.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58668	Please don't be afraid of the current morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58669	Please determine the quorum because we are going to expand the agenda and decide on the discussed agenda points. Let's see the score. 83 checked in, there must be a lot more here in the Assembly, please count more. 106 MPs and MPs, we have a quorum on one and another basis, so to speak, so we're going to go to the vote on the expansion of the daily. The sooner we ask the President of the Committee, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, to take his word. Mr. Sesvetchan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58670	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So, we have a report on the suspension of the term of office of representative Bica Matkovic and the termination of the conduct of the deputy representative, Prof. Dr.sc. Cresimir Cosic. The mandate-immunity committee discussed at the 38th session held on 1 December 2010, the written request of Commissioner Bica Matkovic of 22 November 2010 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 19 November 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia relieved her of the duties of State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, thus ending her duties which were incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties. The commission claimed that the rest of Ms. Bianci Matkovic's parliamentary mandate, elected on the HDZ list in 2. The constituency of the election team began on 11 January 2008, due to the incompatibility of the State Secretary's duties as set out in Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and that on the same day, her deputy Krešimir Ćosic began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. As Mrs Bianca Matkovic complies with Article 13(1). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so that the stay of Biance Matkovic's representative's term of office ended on the 8th day of the application, with the same day, the conduct of her deputy, Krešimir Cosic, ceased. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with the 6th vote to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision to suspend the term of office of representative and to cease acting as deputy deputy MPs. On 30 November 2010, the term of office of representative Bica Matković, deputy representative of Prof. Dr. Kresimir Cosic, on 30 November 2010, ceases to act as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58671	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting this proposal on vote by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal for a Mandate-Immunity Commission was unanimously accepted by 105 votes. I ask Mrs. Bianca Matkovic's representative to take an oath before the Croatian Parliament. And please take a seat where Mr. Krešimir Cosic has been sitting so far. First I'll read the text of the oath and then I'll call a representative who swears by standing up saying the word "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Bianca Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58672	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58673	Thank you very much. Congratulations. ... Congratulations and wish you successful work as representatives of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. We move to the agenda point - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Here you go. The materials are being shared, any minute now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58675	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, first we have a report on a request for authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against Tonin Picula. Representative at the Croatian Parliament. At its 39th session held on 9 December 2010, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament of the City of Velika Gorica, represented by Mayor Drazen Barisic, discussed the request for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Tonin Picula for the criminal offence of the conclusion of the harmful contract referred to in Article 294(2) and the abuse of powers in economic business referred to in Article 292(2) in conjunction with Article 292(1), paragraph 3. Penalty law. Mr Tonino Picula is a representative of the 6th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and pursuant to Article 75 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, it shall not be possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings. The Commission found that the decision of the state attorney's office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, number 109/09. Since 28 January 2010, the rejected application of the Club of Council of the Croatian Democratic Community in the City Council of Velika Gorica v. Tonin Picula, and that the town of Velika Gorica has submitted as a damage to the County Court in Zagreb an investigative request against Tonin Picula. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 8 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament during the term of office, shall be suspended from the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Agent Tonin Picula in Case No 30-KIO-51/10 for the criminal part referred to in Article 294(2) and Article 298(2) in respect of Article 292 paragraph 1. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58676	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please engage to see the quorum and we'll vote. Let's see the quorum first, please. 102. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are putting this proposal on the Mandate-Immunity Commission to vote, please engage and vote. Score. The proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by the majority of the 104 votes in favour, no abstentions and one against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58677	The following is the report on the request for authorisation for the deprivation of liberty, the determination of detention and the prison of investigation against MPs in the Croatian Parliament of Dr Ivo Sanader. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 39th session held on 9 December 2010, the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. OGF-41/10 of 8 December 2010, by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, by the act of fighting the OGF-125/10 of 9 December 2010, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the Authorisation of Freedom, the determination of detention and incarceration against the representative of Dr. Ivo Sanader for the crimes of association for the initiation of the crimes referred to in Article 333(1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Dr Ivo Sanader is the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and a decision approving detention should be taken by the Croatian Parliament. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 9 votes for the Croatian Parliament suggests making the next decision. An authorisation shall be granted for the deprived of liberty, the determination of detention and the investigational prison against representatives of Dr. Ivo Sanader at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the number of OGR-41/10 as of 8 December 2010, sent by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia No. OGR-125/10 of 9 December 2010 for the crimes of association for the initiation of criminal offences referred to in Article 333(1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58678	Ladies and gentlemen, the State's Attorney's Office has requested in this case and classified this case as I said "limited" to the public. It says in the State's Attorney's request, I didn't look at the article or anything, so it says in the State's Attorney's request, in that sense here's the note I'm opening the debate. Mr. Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58679	Mr. President, the State's Attorney's Office has requested this for a session of the Mandatory Commission because documents bearing the code "Restricted" have been delivered to the members of the Mandatory Committee, and they can speak freely because they do not know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58680	So the MPs didn't get what the Mandate-Immunity Commission got. I open the debate, Mr. Zoran Milanovic first reported on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58681	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, dear home. For us, this is just a follow-up debate about the government's mistrust. Otherwise we waited 10 minutes to open the door to the room where we scheduled and announced a club session as HDZ president did not go across the border. In the future, we won't tolerate it. This is not a threat, and at least by force, however, I do not allow a meeting of the club to be held after a legal and correct announcement hours earlier, because it was decided by a technical person. So I'm asking you from the parliamentary majority to influence that. This isn't the first time, and now it's particularly disturbing. So there's no reason to lock the hall door anymore because your former president is somewhere in the Parliament. He's definitely escaped now. And now we can talk about why he ran away and who let that happen? Whose powers are on Wednesday? Was the police responsible for this not happening the first time? Is that what the jump is supposed to be? Who tipped her off? Why is it that leaks information from the USKOK investigation we're reading in the papers? I'm going to point out that it's a felony for whoever let it out, and you know who had the information. Information had a Bounce and a lawyer. And probably no one else, maybe the police in certain cases. It's a felony. It may not be a crime for the newspaper to publish something, but it's a crime to release information from the investigation, they're protected, and that's where we expect a reaction. Of course not from the Parliament, but from the authorities. This is an important topic we've said a lot about in the last three years. We also talked about irregularities in the 2007 campaign, we talked about that some personal property is in absolute disproportionate to declared revenue, that some campaigns are financed at least as if it were Texas and not Croatia, and that responsibility should be determined for this. However, those whose job it was did not respond, and those whose job it was to clap and bow, they did so. This is an important topic, but at this point it's not the most important. And that's what we talked about today in the morning with the SDP. This is an important topic, but it concerns how public service relations work in one party, not in all parties. What is more important today than this topic, so today is the day of two important topics and the week of very important topics is INA and MOL. And here I will take another chance to remind before the Parliament and in front of the entire Croatian public those who are trying to get away with the decisions of the Racan government in 2002 and 2003 that they will not be able to do so. The people of HDZ, therefore, in this House, I urge you to bring an amendment to the INA Act, which prevents anyone from acquiring more than 50% of the INA shares without your will, there is still time for that. Everyone protects their interests in a legitimate and fair way, each country does so in the EU, and if we do so, we do not violate any legal nor moral rule or postulate. The government hasn't done anything in a week.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58682	Stick to the subject please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58683	I'm very much sticking to the subject, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58684	Yeah, yeah, that's me. It's me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58685	So the topic is much bigger than this, the topic is Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58686	Stick to the subject, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58687	So, please, I've given up on you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58688	Last time I warn you, stick to it, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58689	That you personally influence in your club you gentlemen and colleagues and colleagues from HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58690	Last warning before you take away the word, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58691	To the Croatian Parliament to pass the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58692	Last warning before you take away the word, Mr. Representative. It's just that when someone breaks the Rules of Procedure, they take away the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58693	Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58694	What do you want to break the Rules of Procedure and tolerate it? ... Right to breach of the Businessman. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Is that what you'd like to legalize? He can't. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58695	Okay. Mr. Vice President, those who taught me right in Croatia and outside have taught me something that is not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58696	You've been badly taught.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58697	To respect even your decision if you make it. So I'll respect her. I'll get off this phone if you take my word for it. But I won't keep quiet about things that concern Croatia, they are important. The story of Sanader is important, and the story of the INA where we can still stop it from working so that others across our backs, regardless of what happened in 2002 and 2003, solve their disputes and interests other than Croatia, we can still do so. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Vote by conscience the ones we still have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58698	Thank you. Thank you for sticking to the Rules of Procedure, although it was with great difficulty to force you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. But better ever than never. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58699	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, there is no one from the government, gentlemen. Here I am on my way to the planned one, and of course I will respond to USKOK's text message for the Evening List of Former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. The news of the day is not gentlemen that a request has been filed against Sanader to remove immunity or determine detention, but that Ivo Sanader has left this country. Who's going to convince anyone in this House that he just walked off to Slovenia? I say you let a man get away and someone from the top of the government organized his escape. And for that reason, Mr. Hebrang should disband the current government and certainly the top of the police or the intelligence community or call for elections. Look, the police know where the man went. He went to Slovenia. He knows what line he crossed, knows which border crossing he crossed when he bought the vignette. So they let Sanader get away like he let Glavas get away for a while. And that's true. We all knew during today that the request of the DORH was sent to this House. We all knew during today that the Immunity Commission would discuss Mr. Sanader's immunity, and he just ran away. She knew that's why the police, she had to know. Anyway, she had to know before we did. In which country could the number one enemy escape? I claim public enemy number one can escape only in Croatia. Why? Because his escape was staged, and I'm saying it's a practice. And to whom it suits now, and I guess it suits the top of this government or HDZ that Sanader doesn't sing in the country, and I guess someone else would rather get some political asylum in New York, Austria or Bangladesh, that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58700	Mr. Cain, one moment. ... Mr. Cain, a moment! [[Speakers speaking out loud, doesn't understand.]] You can't call anyone a public enemy. Everyone is innocent and innocent until proven guilty by a judicial order. [[I'm sorry.]] For a felony. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58701	Excuse me. I accept this remark. Parastate, good. Which was the task of the police, so I guess to stop a man from coming out of the country, not getting him out of the country, according to that principle, a wolf full of it, and sheep in number. If so, and that is so, and President Josipovic spoke of earlier, then it is the disintegration of the country's system. And gentlemen, now don't correct me, but we are really coming cartoons from the state. I know he'll come back, I know he'll talk, maybe it'll be a pleasure to afford all of us there right before the election. Sanader is at this point, Slovenia is small, most likely in Austria. I suppose he'll speak in Austria, so I'd like to tell the press right now, go to Vienna or Klagenfurt. We, on the other hand, who don't have the money to organize our escape probably wouldn't run away. Those who have God my money or behind whom the state stands, those who build fairies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, those who in two years double-circuit the world or those who in Austria have no idea what. The one who doesn't care for vignette, be assured he can't escape from this country. ... /The noise in the hall./... Ivo Sanader has organized a system in which he may have gone a little bit more than through conversion and privatisation, but on the other hand, I'm also afraid that this is somehow turning into a political reckoning. I was saying a year and a half ago that some should be anchored somewhere in the level of the Golog Island. Those who know how to pack in Croatia are clear to give themselves wind to the heels. We can see he didn't run off to Renault 8 that's in the garage. And now imagine, a man comes to Slovenia, buys a vinjet, puts on winter tires, and now the Slovenians return it because it has no winter tires. Anything is possible, but I'm also sure that many in this hall don't care to come back. When the budget was debated, I was speaking about first of all after the "emergency procedure" adoption of the budget and then followed by the reckoning. Sanader's arrest goes on, the government's reconstruction continues a process similar to Sanader. The one who falls out of the government will not only be emptied by his cabinet but will be found by gentlemen at the shooting range. That's what I said 30 days ago. After the best budget, the finance minister should go. But it's also not possible, it can't be, it can't be said that everyone in this country is to blame only Ivo Sanader, and that those around him knew nothing. Those who were ready until yesterday to shoot for Ivo Sanader today would be ready to shoot Ivo Sanader. I claim that many at the top of the HDZ simply knew about what is being put on the line today in this DORH demand to Eve Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58702	You can't question another person's pay phone booths and accuse them and blame them. You can't do that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58703	The parties may be led in a way that no one knows anything, but that's not how the Lord's Government works. I guess as we've had our chance to read in these 25 seconds, that this process is being conducted against the Fimi Media, but I'm saying that the marginal case against HEP, some major privatisations, monopolys, etc. Here with this Fimi media is the damage of about 30 million kuna, whether or not it will be returned, which will be with the damage to HEP 600 million kuna. But be careful, gentlemen, there are more problems. Today we had the opportunity to read in the media that someone was threatening our prime minister. I believe that no one threatens her, only those who give testimony to individual judicial bodies in the form of witnesses or indictees. I see in this problem today's debate on immunity two problems. On the one hand, it is a struggle for supremacy within the HDZ and what could happen after losing the elections and the other, clearly, an attempt to deal with crime. Behind that first one can be a party, behind this second one is the hope of the judiciary. But the judiciary would also have to be autonomous, it shouldn't be dependent, it would have to be credible, and it shouldn't be handled so that it can act as whoever raises a small one or doesn't know which finger. If this is not the reason for the government's resignation, what's happening today, the Government clearly Jadranka Kosor, if this is not the reason for the elections, then what's the reason for the elections. I don't know what can or should still happen to this country. After this, one policy literally has to be revealed, and that policy is us who created the state, and I am adding and ruining the nation. I'll do it again. All decisions can't be held accountable just by Sanader. Someone must have known, someone had to carry the bags as well. Those who have destroyed the state should answer. But I also know that in all of this many have made themselves very rich. It's only now that he's back, and he'll be back, that's who's on the team. Today I read that the prime minister also knew about some black funds, but another occasion. All in all, I'm certainly not happy about all this. We have so many problems in this country and existential and social and economic and now we see moral. This is news as well you will agree with me of the greatest interest, but clearly some justice works even if the world fails. Today we read it the day of the fight against corruption, if it was supposed to be a message on the day of the fight against corruption, then you pissed at us what would happen after New Year's Eve. But what God will have, and God is also not a HDZ man. Sanader brought in the gentlemen. I'm not insulting a religious father. Sanader has brought Mrs. Kosor, Mrs. Kosor has spoken to Ivo here and I, the arrest of the prime minister I suppose you will agree with me to destroy the state, I will not talk about bettervism in some parties, but be careful, we are not arresting Sanader all amnesty, because behind him remains the policy of bringing in the former prime minister in some way is the end in the moral sense of this government, because this government is literally the government of Ivo Sanader. Tomorrow, here I am reading Mr. Hebrang all the ministers will answer, will close us all up, so somehow it's in the Evening List or Evening, all of us HDZ ministers will end up at the end of Remetec. I'm not gonna say that would be fair, but that's an ear. We'll see what gentlemen are going to be this year, I don't want it, and I think where they're being made and they're making political decisions, someone has a right to make mistakes, but if he's used himself or his own, at that point, he needs to take his skin off, and I'm going to say more than one verdict, plainly speaking. Damir Cain didn't do anything for himself, don't worry, but I will tell Mr Hebrang that this is the end of a government and a disgrace to one policy. I've never been for HDZ, but I'll tell you the same thing when you keep throwing yourself away that's why I don't gloat. I am also concerned, yesterday a verdict to the former police minister, the day before yesterday's Deputy Prime Minister, today's proposal to express myself against the first prime minister or first minister or former prime minister. This says to a large extent, gentlemen, that we are a destroyed nation, that this country has been taken for 8 years, that the country will take at least a decade to recover morally, an economic who knows when, I am truly truly sad, I really want for all of this, although I repeat it to justice once again, even if the world fails, but not in the way that it is done in this country, with these opportunities that we all know, that there are requests for a debate about trust and that someone just walks out of the country. However, what we will do is, in the Republic of Croatia, I will vote to remove this immunity and we will see what happens after some people return to this country and hopefully will.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58704	HDSSB club Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58705	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I will quote the Penal Code, which literally states: "The criminal organisation is a structured association of at least 3 persons who exist during a certain period and act with a common goal of committing one or more crimes for the direct or indirect acquisition of financial or other material benefits, or with the aim of achieving and retaining supervision of certain economic or other activities, and it is criminal acts for which a prison sentence of at least 4 years or more severe punishment may be imposed. The criminal organisation is the cornerstone of the concept of organised crime." This is what the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia says. Ivo Sanader, Damir Polancec, Berislav Rončević, Ivica Kirin, Mladen Barišić, Ivan Mravak, Josip Protega, Davorin Kobac, Jurica Prskalo, this is 9. In order for an organisation to be called a criminal organisation, according to the definition of the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, it takes three. Is there anything else to add to this, so that this time finally and without opposition to anyone, we must conclude that once a state-owned HDZ party has become a criminal organisation by definition of the Law of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58706	Thank you. Stop, stop. I give you a warning about the heavy insults of a political party. In a repeated case, I'll take your word for it, remember.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58707	These days, more precisely tomorrow, you're the only one doing your job. More precisely tomorrow we mark the 11th anniversary of the death of the first Croatian President Dr. Francis Tudjman. She's right, Mrs. Ankica Tudjman, when she said yesterday that today's HDZ is not her late president's party. That HDZ was a state-of-the-art party. However, given that Ivo Sanader is headed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this has also become a synonym for organised crime. Then I don't think further explanations are necessary. However, given that today's HDZ leadership is proud to point out that I am quoting it as "the government of the Continuity of Sanader's Government". Then not only are the privileges that arise but also the responsibility for the crime committed and the robbery of their own people. The Croatian Democratic Community has patented something new in democratic practice. Other democratic countries have two governments each. The one who wins the election and the one who forms the opposition. It's called the Shadow Government. In the Republic of Croatia we still do not have a announced government in the shadows, but thanks to HDZ we still have two governments or one government with two seats. One was formed and tables in the Banski dvori, and the other is now formed in Remetinco. This second one is called the government of thieves, and the first one is nothing but the government of the other government's continuity. Both government and government are common denominators of HDZ. At the end of today's HDZ and I am sorry about that he made, I am sorry about Croatia, for the citizens of Croatia and for everything that happened to them in these seven years of HDZ rule made Remetinca almost a tourist attraction of the Republic of Croatia. Remetinec could quickly find its place on the tourist map of the Republic of Croatia as a very attractive destination. It will not only hold elections for basic branches, but as it has set off could be the party's extraordinary parliament. He said recently Mr. President, former President Mesic...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58708	Mr. Buriæ, I take your word for the hard... I take your word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58709	I didn't hurt anybody, I'm just talking. The fact that you recognize yourself, maybe that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58710	I took your word, please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58711	And the African nomads know about Dubrovnik and as it goes, the Eskimos will soon know about the Remetinec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58712	Guards take out Agent Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58713	You can do whatever you want, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, when you interrupt the session, when you interrupt the session. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58714	Get Agent Buric out of here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58715	When you break up the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58716	I interrupted the session and then listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58717	I'll go out myself. You don't have to worry. And I'm still gonna have to tell you look at this. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58718	From the assembly room. Guards from the assembly room. Take Agent Buric out of the assembly. The sitting and the interrupted session continues. HNS's club, HSU's representative, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58720	... Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58721	What? Wait, excuse me, colleagues, just one moment. What? What's this about? ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't notice. Please, correcting an incorrect quote. Here you go. Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58722	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote, I can't tell my esteemed colleague Buric, and I'm not correcting for my colleague Buric's sake, but for all those who heard this. Berislav Roncevic is not part of any criminal organisation, Berislav Roncevic has never been charged with such a thing, nor has he been wrongly convicted. I will use my constitutional and legal right to challenge it in front of a higher court, and there will be no Dinko Buric and no subjugation of opposition on this subject to hesitate to persist in what I intend to defend my honor and reputation, I hope and finally in an honest court procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58723	Thank you very much. I apologize to my colleague Roncevic, I didn't notice. What? Excuse me. Mr. Bagaric, you had the same indication of correcting the incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm also correcting not wrong, but a really malicious and wrong quote relating to the HDZ qualification. Excuse me, Mr. Linic, may I?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58725	Please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58726	The Croatian Democratic Community has been and will remain responsible for the creation of the state, and all people whether they are in HDZ or not until they are legally convicted are innocent, regardless of which party they belong. A fellow Buric is indeed a prisoner of, unfortunately, hatred and personal accounting, and we do not want to be those, hostages of all this. Sadly, in the same words that those who are calling on Tudjman today were dealing with him in his day while he was alive. Now they only look good when he's not alive. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58727	HNS Club, HSU, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58728	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58729	Mr. President, I was looking for a word on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58730	So I know you're looking for the name of the club word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58731	Your assistants have seen and raised my hand. I'm looking for a word on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58732	Are you looking for a word on behalf of the SDP club?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58734	Well, then you should have indicated that you're looking for it on behalf of the SDP club. How am I supposed to know, you're standing there, standing there in the bench, raising your hand?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58735	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58736	I can tell from that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58737	It's common behavior when you find... The word on behalf of the club will raise the tile. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Until then I'm always looking for a word, your assistants have seen it, you've seen it. Am I right on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58738	Yes, you do. Here you go. In the name of the club, you have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58739	Given the impossible working conditions, I'm looking for a 10-minute break for the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58740	Given the impossible working conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58741	I'm looking for a 10-minute break at the club to figure out what to do next.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58742	Here's a break of 10 minutes, 4 and 10. We're continuing the session. The SDP advocates' club sought a break, after which they sought a break and a club of HDZ and SDSS representatives. On behalf of the SDP club, the club president, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58744	So, Mr. Vice-President, we believe that this decision should be taken and we will vote for a decision, that is, a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And we don't want this decision to be delayed. However, we believe that your behaviour is delayed and that you are embarrassing Croatian institutions, and the Parliament is an institution. And you can't act like this. We can't do anything to you, we can get out of the assembly, if you take my word I can stop talking because they taught me to respect decisions and to rightly interpret directly or tautologically with certain clear limits if necessary. But what you've done is wrong. By shutting down the transmission, you have no right to do so. And you have to learn that this is a space where boundaries are allowed pretty far. As long as he's not directly offended, as long as he's suspected if you want to, but he's not accusing, that's allowed. That is why there is an institution of immunity that we are removing from one person today, and therefore there is the right of MPs and the freedom of MPs, which is why it is imagined and created not to be responsible for words spoken during the conduct of its mandate and during what it does. So, just keep going your way. I'll say it again, thought it was some kind of nonsense or obvious thing. This government has lost all its legitimacy. It's election time. We don't expect you to call them, but we'll keep saying it. We will also propose a solution in the Croatian interest as well as this for which you just took away my word, I am saying so to draw attention to the seriousness of the situation aware that such a solution is at the edge of what is allowed in the negotiations with the EU that you have set as an absolute of everything that Croatia is doing. We were for the EU long before HDZ, but we are also for the protection of Croatian interests. Long before HDZ, long before HDZ. ... Yes, yes, colleagues and colleagues, long before HDZ. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] But, well, if this is how you react again, dear Vice President of the Parliament, I think that your club should have removed you from the session after this, and that someone else should have taken over, and we're going to warn the public again, and you turn off the cameras again, you're doing violence, but we're patient and persistent people, and we're going to do our job that way. Here we go, if necessary, we'll do it again. If necessary again tomorrow, we will have a press conference on INA only to let Croatian people and citizens hear what is important. And as for the decision to abolish immunity, we're about to make it. With your behavior you only delay making that decision, it could already be made. I feel like you're deliberately causing incidents, you let go and you and your government, your police, that a person suspected of serious crimes that we pointed out, did not suspect, indicated three years ago, crossed the border, went there to maybe board a plane. Here, my contribution to this will be to stop now, to make this decision as soon as possible. Don't provoke us to any further moves, please. For God's sake, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58745	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I sincerely and deeply apologize to anyone if I, either by my conduct or by my actions or by my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, hurt the Rules of Procedure and went beyond the norms of those who have the chairman who chaires the session. But let me just point out something. How did it come to be that I interrupted the session and took away the word of Agent Buric? I warned MP Buric because he seriously injured HDZ by calling it a criminal organisation. You'll agree it's an insult. Afterwards, he continued, and then I gave him a second reminder with a takeaway. When he continued, after that I interrupted the session. At the end of the session, the head of the guard came and warned me that it was necessary to turn off the recording. Why turn off the recording? Because the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament on 19 January 2010 decided to prohibit any recording and photographing of the work and actions of the Officers of the Watch of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, when the session was interrupted in the session, I, as the commander of the guard, turned off the cameras because it was interrupted, it was not a session. I ask you to respect it and take it to knowledge and discipline. So, I'm not on my own free will, I'm not on my own free will, but I'm on a certain instruction and by the decision of the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament. In doing so, I have not waged any violence or intend to carry out any violence. I'd like the club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. ... SDSS Representatives' Club, Pupovac? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Mr. Vice President Jarnjak, please continue the chair session. HNS-HSU representative club Mrs. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58746	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's from the third or fourth try. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, I will seek to strictly stick to this topic because we at the HNS Club, HSU, consider this topic to be very important. This is, of course, an ideal topic for political liquefying over political competition, or our political ironing over HDZ. This is indeed one subject that has objective consequences for HDZ and will certainly have consequences for HDZ. But according to HNS, HSU, this is one topic that is far more important than HDZ or any party in the Republic of Croatia, this is a topic that is particularly important for our country and is extremely important for the legal order and stability of the country, and we believe from that point of view that it deserves our shortness of seriousness as well. As regards requests for the removal of immunity and approval of arrests, etc. As it says in this request for representative Ivo Sanader, for us at the HNS club, HSU is no surprise. All that has been happening in recent months were the statements of people who were in custody or in custody tied to corruption at the top of the government, leading necessarily and pointing out that the arrest of the former prime minister, and now the parliamentary representative Ivo Sanader, would be only a logical consequence and the only possible consequence of being limited to what was transferred to the media. So, for us, that fact is no surprise. For cynics, maybe the escape of Eve Sanader across the border isn't a surprise. For us at HSN, HSU is. We felt that Ivo Sanader would stand before the face of justice and present his vision, present the data he has or the attitude that he represents in this regard and for us is absolutely a surprise and a shocking surprise that he has fled beyond the border. Sometimes it's said in the election that you can vote your feet. That's when voters don't just go to the polls. Obviously, the testimony can also be given by the legs, because running across the border at the moment as the Parliament discusses removing immunity and approval for Ivo Sanader to deprive him of his freedom, to appoint him a detention and to appoint him an investigative prison, is also in our opinion a kind of testimony. He also gave a statement. Maybe in this case it's not oral but with its own behavior or legs. My colleague Cain here in the debate said not to run away from those who don't have the money for the vignette. That's not our opinion. In our opinion, those who are not afraid to stand before the court do not flee, but those who fear to stand before the court flee. Unlike colleagues from this House who publicly and extensively attack in today's newspaper the inadmissible judgments of the court in the case of Trucki or in the case of former Minister Berislav Roncevic, we will not, as a club of HNS and HSU, prejudge the decision on the judiciary in this case Sanader. We also think that it is important to measure the ability and determination to defend the functioning of the rule of law not only when you demand a legal and court fair procedure for yourself, your political friends and political allies, we think that this is measured especially when you require it for your political opponents or political competitors. So what our mission is and how we from the HNS Club, the HSU here today sees our mission, is to absolutely and in every respect allow the judiciary to act and to clear up the Sanader case. That's what we see as our assignment. And therefore, the approval of this requirement that has come to us is our task, that is, in other words, our enabling the judiciary under the given circumstances to work uninterruptedly and to do its job. At the same time as we make it possible for him, of course, we stand firm in the view that justice and the laws are equal for all. A clear, unambiguous procedure in front of the court equals everything. Right now, when it comes to someone who's being a HNS club, HSU concerns our political opponent or political competitor if you want to use a lighter dictionary. Is it embarrassing for all of us citizens of Croatia? Well, of course it's embarrassing. We're HNS-HSU, we're not HDZ and we've never been HDZ, we've never voted for HDZ. But of course, as citizens and citizens of this country, we are ashamed of people who are at the top of the government of this country, our country, at this point or in the escape from the judiciary, accused or suspected of perhaps the most embarrassing things when it comes to high officials, of people who have decided to deal with the public affairs of the defendant or suspected of stealing their own country while at their highest posts in defense of public interest. Whether we're ashamed, of course we're ashamed. Is that necessary on the other hand for the health and future of this country? Well, of course it's necessary. This country cannot go forward without these cases being cleared and settled in court. And as simple as that can be for a man as a citizen of a country who identifies himself with his country, as much as he may be uncomfortable at the same time, and this is the process that this country needs, it needs to take the next step and start cleaning up from a paralysing monster called corruption, especially corruption at the highest peaks of power, in this case at the highest peak of executive power in the case of prime minister. In that case, the issue of corruption must be cleared up. How will it be cleared and what will eventually come out and what decisions will be made by the court should in any case be left to the court. Why is it awkward, not because people are in prison or wanted to be in prison, but because of the reasons they're asked to be in prison. Without clearing up, like I said, there's no progress for us. That is why, in our opinion, this is now and what is happening in Croatia today, so if you want and what is happening here in this House is a crucial moment for Croatia. To a large extent, we here begin to decide whether we will give this country a chance to develop in the direction of a decent European country or if we will continue as the old and we will not give it that chance, or we will take that chance away from it. We were the ones who had long since the beginning claimed that there was no victory in the fight against corruption and there was no clearing up the problem of corruption without beginning to investigate and clear up in the highest peaks of power. Now it's started and it's necessary and as uncomfortable as it is for this country, it's important and it shows that it's started to work. The consequences they will have for the party that all these people have come from are certainly not pleasant and relatively obvious. But I repeat, this is not about HDZ, it's about Croatia and it's about the country's chance, not the party's chance. For these reasons, the HNS and HSU club will vote in favour of removing immunity and giving as it stands in the request for authorisation for the deprivement of liberty, the determination of detention and the investigational prison against MPs in this Assembly of Ivo Sanader. They will give their approval and vote at a time when, although the country's stability cannot certainly be rocked at the time when someone who was prime minister goes to jail, when we have an unusual situation in Parliament where the party from which the prime minister emerged still has a majority and heads the government. But the fact is that it's a move that this country needs and without which we won't be able to continue as a country, and at the same time, it's a much greater responsibility for us right now precisely because the executive power has been rocked, that by our thinking, by our behaviour here in the Parliament, we guarantee and be guaranteed the stability of the country in these certainly difficult moments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58747	Thank you. We have two corrections to the incorrect allegations and one violation of the Rules of Procedure, but just a moment. Thank you very much. We have two corrections to the incorrect allegations and one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Ivan Drmic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58748	Mr. Chairman, you have violated the Rules of Procedure in Article 211. According to the Rules of Procedure, every club of MPs has the right to speak on behalf of the club about every point for 15 minutes. Dr. Dinko Buric came out and spoke for seven minutes so our club has eight minutes left which I reported on time. I want to use the rest of my time for 15 minutes. You skipped my application and gave the word to Mrs. Pusic. I didn't want to interrupt her, but now I'm asking that the next speaker be on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, which belongs to us to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58749	Your Honor, I did not violate the Rules of Procedure for several reasons. First, before you even brought the receiver, a word was given to the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic, before the break. That's when you came in and asked to make up for those up to 15 minutes. That's one thing. It's another thing. When two speakers are logged in, they must be pointed at the same time that in the same theme he will speak two or more or five [[Intruder Drmic: It does not say in the Rules of Procedure.]] You can't get a word in the name of the club, but I recommend you take a word in an individual debate and speak in an individual debate if you think you have something important to say there, you'll have ten minutes. [[/Intruder Drmić: Can you tell me where it says it. I'll back off.]] We'd only have six minutes here, so I recommend you speak for the club. I'm hanging in there. [[Intruder Drmić: I recommend that you stick to the Rules of Procedure and it does not matter at all...]] Mostly you can't get a word in the name of the club. [[/Intruder Drmić: whether I will and what I will speak for that speaker. I have the right to go out for eight minutes to shut up.]] I'm sorry! Don't be mad, you can't get No, I don't work every time, I just... [[Intruder Drmic: I feel sorry every time I don't know why you're doing it.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder Drmić: Every time you work.]] Thank you very much. We have another individual debate, the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. [[Intruder Drmic: I have no problem with any of the other vice presidents except you.]] Here you go. Excuse me. [[Intruder Drmić: You cannot continue until you give us the word on behalf of the club.]] So we have two corrections to the incorrect assumption. The first is the Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58750	Thank you very much. My colleague's out. She's here. counterpart Pusic incorrectly said that by looking at me in today's newspaper, one MP criticised the inadmissible verdict. If you have read the text unauthorized but I underline every word written there. I said, in my own words, I don't comment on the inadmissible verdicts, but I answered the question why in the Committee of the Assembly, in the investigation of the trucks, you claimed Roncevic was innocent and I said that because it was confirmed by the Director of the Police and the Chief Auditor. These are people against whom it is not for those statements to be initiated, so I hold to their word and in the rule of law they have a great weight of a colleague. And it's incorrect that I was talking about the verdict. I was just talking about the investigation committee. It's in the text. If you need an increase I have one, I'll lend you and read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58751	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58752	It is clear that Mrs Pusic does not run away from those who are not afraid of the truth, who want the truth to be heard and who want her name to clear up a mark that could follow them. But God doesn't run away from me or a poor woman who doesn't care for a vinjet. For these others, I am 100% certain that this poor girl is not running away. Who's running away from Croatia? Kutle, the one from Salonita, Gotovina, Glavas, Golemovic, etc. The problem of Croatia is respected gentlemen representing political processes. I don't want to believe that the DORH would be involved in this case without being 101% sure that this case will eventually end. But everyone deserves a fair trial. One can't be guilty of everything, and those who swore to him simply for all the merits. On the other hand, what's problem number one at this point? Who let Ivo Sanader out of the country? The DORH, the Jump, the Government, Luka Babybic. I'm 100% sure it's not Luke.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58753	Your time is up, Mr. Representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58754	Who does that suit? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58755	Agent Caine, you're out of time and I thank you. Have a nice seat. Thank you very much. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to the honourable representative Dragutin Lesar, a violation of the Rules of Procedure after I have already given my word Here you are, Your Honor, Mr. Lesar, will be given your word, but when I'm done. [[/Intruder: You did not give the word. I've raised before.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58756	Mr. Jarnjak, you must stick to the Rules of Procedure. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58757	I'm hanging in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58758	Don't hang in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58759	Don't interfere with the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58760	You're twisting whatever's right for you. I don't know why you're afraid of what we're gonna say about that pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58761	Please have the right to contact individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58762	Well, I answered on behalf of the club in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58763	You can't answer on behalf of the club, you have no right to the Rules of Procedure, and I can't give you my word. Let your colleague Lesar speak. Thank you very much. Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58764	If you tell me where it says what you said, I'll back off, and I'll tell you where it says I'm right.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58765	Sit down. You'll sit down with the secretary later and he'll tell you. Here you go. Dear Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58766	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58767	So let your colleague speak!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58768	I can't let him go. My colleagues, I apologize. I'm asking that, I don't have to talk. Let Mr Grubisic speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58769	No one can get a word in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58770	Choose who you want to talk to on behalf of the club that we have the right to do business.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58771	Your Honor, you have announced that you will make an incident. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58772	Who did I announce it to?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58773	Thank you very much. Come on, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58774	I announced because you came here to get me to give up my speech on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58775	Here you are, Your Honor, Agent Lesar. Speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58776	So can't Mr... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58777	Thank you very much. Well, don't!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58778	He can't talk... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58779	Your Honor, I'd like you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, please. You have no right to speak on behalf of the club. But you're right, please don't. You can't get a Businessman on behalf of the club. You can have the individual, come in individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58780	I'll read it to you... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58781	Don't, you have no right. Please! Your Honor, I'd like to give you a heads-up about the fact that the session has been disrupted. Mr. Lesar, you have your word. Start talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58782	You can't let me... I'm giving you a warning. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58783	Your Honor, don't do this, it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58784	If you were respecting the Rules of Procedure, you'd already...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58785	You are obstructing the work of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58786	You're a distraction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58787	You're obstructing, you didn't get the word and you can't speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58788	Yeah, I got my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58789	You didn't get the word "respectful representative." You're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you're done, and you have no right to speak. Don't put me in a position where I have to shut you out of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58790	If you go on like that, you'll lose the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58791	Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58792	I'd like to ask you... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58793	But look, you can't get through the Rules of Procedure. I'm not breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58794	Well, I won't argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58795	I won't violate the Rules of Procedure simply for your sake because you called later and didn't answer when necessary. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58796	I did. I did. I answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58797	Dear Representative Lesar, try to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58798	Mr. Lesar, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58799	How about I talk without a microphone, okay? It's not working. Now that he's turned it on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58800	Don't be nervous. This is one disrespect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58801	Dear MPs, I would like to remind you by taking away any word more in the House and asking the guard to remove Assembly representative Drmic from the hall for obstructing the session's work. I'm interrupting the session until it's done. Thank you very much. We're continuing the session, and I'm asking the Honorable representative of Lesar to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58802	Thank you very much, Your Honor... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58804	Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58805	Your Honor, you called in for a breach of the Rules of Procedure after I gave my word to Agent Lesar. When he's done with the session, with a conversation, or debate, you'll get a correction, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Sit down. Your Honor, continue. Here you are, Your Honor, Agent Lesar. Don't do that, Your Honor. Please continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58806	Here I will try to start and end up in the framework of the proposed Rules of Procedure my debate, if tensions calm down in the meantime. When Mr. Ivo Sanader, or as he was then, was to be spoken by Dr. Ivo Sanader resigned and left the government in an express time, I said he was running away. When he returned to the Assembly for questions as to why I think he was triggering the mandate, I gave only two options. He was either coming to the Parliament for early elections, or immunity. He has activated his mandate with a circus, and without it, he will also be left with circus behavior. I admit that so far I didn't expect the State's Attorney's Office to reach Ivo Sanader in its investigations and entrepreneurship. So I admit that my misjudgement, the mistake I made by estimating the work of the State's Attorney's Office so far, was a little pleasantly surprised this morning. But it was a pleasant surprise for a short time, a small drop in the sea, a drop of pleasure in the sea of discontent, because everything that happened later was not good. The first item is marked with OGR, a restriction. Mr. Sanader has teamed up to commit a crime. I'd like to know who this association or organization existed and lasted for a long time, and what's it called or what's it called? Let's say she's called a little drink, a little stick giving? And the very fact that even this procedure, the MPs know only that the requested removal of immunity for the initiation of a criminal procedure with a measure of detention is sufficiently speaking about keeping the contents secret to the Assembly, but Mr Sanader happened to travel abroad today. It's an accident today. I suppose he went to Slovenia to solve his personal problem of old foreign savings in the Ljubljanska Banka. How can you always in such cases information leaks all over the place? How is it possible that this time everyone blames the police, and I ask how it is that the State Attorney's Office did not take advantage of the measures available and took and requested the removal of the travel document, requested a restriction on the movement and ordered the police to avoid leaving the territory of the Republic of Croatia by persons whose consent is sought, i.e. the removal of immunity in the Croatian Parliament. So I don't think the police made a mistake, but the State's Attorney's Office. The police shouldn't have known what was going on. But it's not the first time. It happens all the time with us. And what I would like to say to all those who have always been terribly critical of every mention of criticism against Mr. Sanader when he was prime minister. You see now, respected colleagues and colleagues, that it is not good to give their hand into the fire for the bosses, for the uncut leaders, for the bosses, because as many as you were faithful to them and their hands in the fire, they left you, with mortgages and big problems that they were working on later. You see how it is not good to see nothing, to hear nothing, and to speak nothing of what you know, while they are in power and while they decide your fates. That never turned out to be good, and I hope everyone in this situation can learn a lesson. Last thing. I'm a little dissatisfied with BOOK and DORH as regards gender equality, or inequality. I expected, and according to the inscriptions, and also today’s press, that more gender equality should be represented in the process of both body and body, at least according to what was written today. And I admit one more thing, that I didn't know about the parliament presidency's decision that the guard of the Croatian Parliament had the right to order a stop shot, turn the cameras towards the wall, force the camera cameras from the camera, turn off the signal of the assembly television. If such a decision exists, I say and argue that the Presidency has usurped the right of matter which can only be regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, because order at the session and procedure in this Chamber determines this Parliament as a Rules of Procedure rather than the Presidency of the Parliament. And what happened today is that the guards are turning the cameras towards the wall and pointing the cameramen to choose to leave that power has no police on the road, in the square and anywhere else when it comes to journalists, reporters. If you want to protect the integrity of the Croatian Parliament then choose to enter it into the Rules of Procedure, for so long I find the Presidency's decision illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58807	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58808	Who me or him?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58809	You want Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58810	Yes, yes, I will. Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58811	Please, you're the first to answer, you're getting the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58812	All right, all right. Thank you. Exactly, Mr. Lesar, this is in some way the process of which, as Vesna said, depends on Croatia's future. But the problem is far deeper than Eve. Ivo wasn't alone, he was headed the column, someone followed him. But what do I want to say? Ivo definitely went back in history with these guys. No one in this country regrets him today. We remember his 2 mandates, which he voted for the HDZ, the frenetic applause and the party, but we also remember the escape from the country on the 1st of July 2009 and the escape from the country on the 9th of December 2010, which is worse than the first escape. Tomorrow we'll remember our return and I believe after that, we won't escape from an institution. It was his choice to escape 1.07.2009. I think it's a system error, someone made it possible, if DORH, whether UskoK, if I don't know. I know Luka Baby's not and that's what you need, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58813	How do you know it's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58814	Well, I know it's not. And that's what we need to talk about on this occasion, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58815	Thank you. That wasn't the topic of the debate. Replication response, please. Dear Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58816	My colleague Cain is not dependent on this today in Croatia, especially the fate of Croatia. Do not use too many words when not needed. We're discussing the removal of immunity, and I haven't heard from any club representatives who would object to the removal of immunity. It's our responsibility. The importance will only be when the criminal proceedings begin, when it is initiated, when the trial is completed, and when the verdict is vested in power if ever it is. Now that can be significant for Croatia. This today is neither relevant in content nor in manner, I would even say that the way we have done this is more harmful than the benefits of democracy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58817	And the other replica, the esteemed representative... Your Honor, I'd appreciate it if you didn't throw it away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58818	Mr. Vice President, you damaged me again because I picked up before Mr. Cain's plate, but it doesn't matter. Namely, the replica to Mr. Lesar. Mr. Lesar you have well noticed that according to the new regulations or the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Assembly of Guards, the Assembly Guard decides on shooting in the Assembly, very well. It's a fantasy. Next thing you know, he was sitting here yesterday, Dr. Sc. Ivo Sanader, sitting right here in front of me, making a phone call, I guess he was making a deal where he was going today. And how did she leak information about this today, so the discussion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and this Parliament, I don't know, it's very, very important to determine. Next, you said they were putting their hands in the fire for the boss. No, they never put their hand in the fire but put their hand on the heart and stole the Croatian state and the Croatian people. It is, as Mrs Vesna Pusic said, a paralysing monster. No, it's not paralyzing, it's a parasite monster you're spending here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58819	Your Honor, I'd like you to pick your words a little bit. Thank you very much. And the answer to the replica
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58820	And Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and this second, don't point your finger when you force our parliamentary representatives out of the House. That's ugly. It's not nice to point a finger.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58821	Your Honor, sir, thank you very much. It doesn't belong to a replica, and I didn't point my finger. Here is a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58822	No, it wasn't you pointing your finger. It was your predecessor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58823	Thank you very much, have a seat. It's easier for you to sit down than to stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58824	But I was looking for an injury, and you told me you were going to give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58825	That's what you missed. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58826	Comrade Grubisic
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58827	You told me that, here in front of everyone you promised me after Lesar to give me your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58828	After Lesar's finished. Here you go. He's not finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58829	My colleague Grubisic, this and the conduct of the guard in this Chamber is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure as you have said, and that would be fine and legitimate, but rather by some decision by the Presidency of the Parliament, by the Presidency's decision. And that's why I'm troublesome her, and I think that this acting watch to turn off the signal was an insult to the Parliament because the Parliament has never made such a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58830	Thank you. To hear the breach of the Rules of Procedure as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58831	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure under Article 211 in which you do not allow the HDSSB club to exercise its 15 minutes right to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives. So, if you've broken up before Mr. Dr. Dinko Buric, who spoke 7.5 minutes, is asking us to allow us to speak for the club for another 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58832	Thank you very much. It is no longer a violation of the Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58833	No, no. You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58834	I'm closing the debate and we're going to be preparing for the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58835	Give me your word, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58836	You can't talk anymore. You can't talk to the honourable representative. The debate is closed. You can't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58837	Please say, if it is concluded, the debate is closed
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58838	We're going to the vote. Please engage and determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58839	Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58840	Let's engage to determine the quorum. The result? The result of 93 present representatives is therefore quorum. Let's approach the vote. Please state the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission as read and as proposed. Let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was adopted unanimously 104 MPs. Vice President Shakespeare on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58842	Very short. In a debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, Mr Milanovic said that my behaviour is to embarrass Croatian institutions and that I exercise parliamentary violence. I assume that Mr Milanovic was not sufficiently informed by all those reasons why I acted in the event that there was an exclusion from the Assembly of Mr. Buric, why there was the exclusion of cameras, that it was probably for the reasons of uninformedness brought out by Mr. Representative Milanovic. In my personal name, I apologized if I hurt someone and I, Mr. Milanovic, expect you to apologize to me for calling my presidency a disgrace and disgrace to Croatian institutions and conducting parliamentary violence. I expect you to apologize to me as I apologized to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58843	Thank you. Dear Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58844	But just one sentence, two would be abuse of institutions, and this was abuse. So, you were supposed to look for a break on behalf of the club and say this. Mr. Shakespeare had five minutes after my speech to explain everything he wanted and he did it. And he takes his word again and he gives us advice. So, I'm still behind the fact that you've overstepped your powers and that it's not your first time and that it's in the cumulative effect of embarrassing institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58845	Thank you. ... Here you go, counsel. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58846	I was hoping you'd accept the offer of an apology. That is an incorrect claim, Mr Milanovic. Since you refused to tell me I hold that you are an office slanderer and is your statement and behavioral political behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58847	Thank you. Please. The esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac has yet to come forward. I'm asking you two sentences and we're done with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58848	On behalf of the SDSS club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58849	I didn't hear, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58850	On behalf of the SDSS club, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58851	Okay. A 10-minute stand by the esteemed representative of Pupovac, the esteemed representative of Hebrang. Ten minutes. We'll continue in 17 hours and 12 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58852	My colleagues and fellow MPs. Please take your seats and proceed after your break. On behalf of the SDSS Club, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58853	I asked for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party club not because I have something special to say, because if I had something to say about deciding on the opinion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I would say so in the debate. I say that I had something new to say or something important to say, I would say that at the time of the debate, during the debate on the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the abolition of the parliamentary mandate, or by providing the necessary action required by the DORH and requested by the USKOK regarding MP Ivo Sanader. But there's one thing I'd like to say to this occasion. This debate and this point was either an opportunity or nothing to say as some clubs have decided or to say something like some clubs have decided to say. But unfortunately what's said well below the level of this home, below the level of mandate, enables us as an agent and actually enables one who has escaped to laugh freely at how we treated this thing, and those who look at us to say God dear, do these people decide on such important issues as this one that was on the agenda today. And for that reason, colleagues and colleagues, given the obstructions that took place here in this House, the Single Democratic Serb Party club proposes that we finish today's session of the Parliament and continue tomorrow so that everyone has a chance to gather, gather and see where they are and what their role is in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58854	Thank you. This was in front of the club, and you didn't sign up but also called the HDZ club. No, he's not. He's giving up. Okay. Mr. Cain, now you have the right to get word from the club. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58855	Mr. President, I can go from place to place, two three sentences. Are we gentlemen representatives of the coup at this time, whether we are witnesses of the coup against this Assembly, whether someone has replaced Luka Bebić, president, the current president of the Croatian Parliament. Whenever we're discussing such life-long existential topics, we don't act like we fell from Mars like my predecessor just said, Luke Baby doesn't. So I'm asking myself if this might be some kind of party coup against incumbent President Bebic, whether this non-presidential is Luke Bebic's political message or someone forbidding him from sending such a message. If this is anything else, then we must stand up for the current president. Although I agree that the president has the right to his/her position and that he/she should not participate in certain political discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-24-0.u58856	You don't have to defend him, pal Cain. He was in the Parliament three times today, chairing while the time allowed him. The rest, he begged the vice presidents to change him. Therefore, in one way or another, the work is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and legitimate.
