ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55641	Thank you, Mr. President. The decision of the Croatian Parliament of 29 November 2005 appointed judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the Law on Courts, the term of office of the jury judges takes four years so that the term of office of the former judges to the jury has expired. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, in the application of the Criminal Procedure Act applicable in cases before the entry into force of the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act, and in other cases covered by the transitional provisions of this Act, shall exceptionally hold discussions as a secondary court, and in these cases it shall decide in the Council in which judges also take part. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. The law on courts prescribed that jury judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia were appointed by the Croatian Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia because of the urgent holding of a hearing in a criminal case in a case of appeal against the ruling of the County Court in Zagreb, the appointment of judges of jurors to the County Court in Zagreb and the County Court in Velika Gorica. The justice ministry has asked the County Court in Zagreb and the County Court in Velika Gorica to submit proposals for judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Based on the proposal of these county courts, we propose that the following candidates be appointed judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and this: The County Court in Zagreb Lidija Janeš from Zagreb, Ribnjak 30, retired born 1946. Ljubica Kovacevic from Zagreb, Rapska 46, pensioner was born in 1950. Branko Maraković from Zagreb, Županova 33, retired born 1943. Ančica Sečan from Zagreb, Ulica Marina Tartalje 14, works outstandingly and studies, born 1976. And Marija Vlahovic from Zagreb, Green Square 5, retired born 1943. County court in Velika Gorica. Bozo Vukovic of Novi Čič, Peternaci number 5, VKV driver, born 1942. Drago Šilić, Ivanić City, Savska 168., professor of defectology, born 1956. Sanja Kosic from Krasic, Pribici No. 5, born in 1980 and graduated from the Teacher's Academy. The résumés of the candidates and their statements of acceptance of the jury's duties were delivered to all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and the proposal passed by the Committee on Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55642	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mrs. Anna Lovrin, chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55643	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Justice Committee discussed the proposal for the appointment of judges of the Supreme Court who delivered the Ministry of Justice to the president of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on courts is prescribed that judges of the jury of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Minister of Justice to ensure the representation of all counties. Discussing the proposed act, the committee found that the proposal was submitted only to the County Court in Zagreb and the County Court in Velika Gorica. The Committee has further requested information on candidates and the life of candidates. The President of the County Court's Act in Zagreb since 1 June 2010 and the Act of the County Court in Velika Gorica since 4 June 2010. The president of the County Court in Zagreb withdrew the original proposal for two candidates and proposed two new candidates. Accordingly, by letter of 8 June, the minister of justice amended the original proposal for judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The letter of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia shows the need for the swift appointment of the judges of the jury, as the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in the application of the Criminal Procedure Act applicable in cases before the entry into force of the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act, and in other cases covered by the transitional provisions of the law is exceptionally held as a secondary court, and in exceptional cases are in the composition of the Council and judges of the jury. For this reason, a debate is to be held before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in a case in which, under appeal, there is a judgment of the County Court in Zagreb to be appointed judges. The Committee found that the proposal for a decision to appoint judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to the County Court in Zagreb and the County Court in Velika Gorica to submit to the Croatian Parliament. For the sake of representation of all counties, the Committee will ask the Minister of Justice to propose candidates for jury judges of the Supreme Court for the area of all counties in the Republic of Croatia and the Committee has already done so in order not to come into the situation that the Croatian Parliament ad hoc must appoint judges of the jury if the need for trial and holding discussions is indicated in a secondary procedure for the territory of another county court. Therefore, we ask the Croatian Parliament to make a choice of jurors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55644	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55645	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Before I begin the debate on behalf of the HNS Club, I ask the HSU only to ask the Secretary of State to answer me whether the provisions of Article 131(2) are met. The law on the courts of the provisions of that law which apply to judges as well as to judges of jurors, unless otherwise specified. And does that mean that the judges of the Supreme Court are subject to the same legal conditions as the judges of the jury of the County Courts? Great. If that's the case, on behalf of HNS and HSU, I'm looking for the next one. First, the Ministry of Justice withdraws both proposals at the same time. And secondly, that the Minister of Justice determines the responsibility of State Secretary Drazen Bošnjakovic, who signed both proposals and third to determine the responsibility of the President of the County Court in Velika Gorica, Mr Vitomir Bojic and the President of the court of Mrs Mirjana Rigljana in Zagreb. In this proposal, there was a direct breach of the provisions of Article 94(1). The law on courts according to which the judge, therefore the jury judge, therefore including the judge of the jury for the youth, the judge of the county court, the judge of the jury of the Supreme Court, must not be a member of the political party or engage in political activity. The same applies therefore to all levels of courts, i.e. jurors. Namely, we have evidence on one proposal and on another, there are candidates who directly and actively participated in the elections, and one of the candidates for the jury judge of the County Court in Zagreb, in the local elections in 2009, as a candidate on the list, on the independent list of which was the leader, namely the holder of Mr Antun Mateš, is an independent list of the city quarter of Gornji Grad Medvesčak, and the other candidate from the list of judges of the County Court in Velika Gorica, not only participated in the local elections in Ivanić City, but was also elected from the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the Croatian Social Liberal Party in the membership of the Council of the Local Committee of Donja Poljan. So both persons are directly involved in political activity, or are members of political parties. In this respect, there has been a violation of the provisions of the law laying down criteria for the proposal and selection of judges of jurors. So I repeat on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU we ask that the Ministry of Justice, or in this case the Government immediately withdraw these proposals to do so, the second to determine the responsibility of the State Secretary who signed these proposals and the third to determine the responsibility of the president of the county courts in Zagreb and Velika Gorica who signed these proposals without adequate checks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55646	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55647	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The jury trial with us today was held as, not only as a symbol, but as an active participation of the citizen in the trial, which we consider still necessary. But there are some dismembers who, as well as this, may be such a proposal and now a time and place to remind ourselves of some illogicality. The legislative authority does not take part in any way in the appointment of judges of professionals. The question arises is, is the Parliament a place for the Parliament to decide the judges of the jurors? I would say that he is a relic of the past, that in the amendments to the Law on Courts he is bound to take into account. As you know, we have recently changed the constitutional provision on the composition of the State Judicial Council, so it is only professionals, where two representatives and oppositions and authorities have been incorporated and in one almost identical way, as is specified for the State Attorney's Council. So there's no need for the Parliament to decide on the appointment of jury judges. Now, what he was saying on behalf of the club, colleague Goran Beus, is the thing that he might have happened to be, because he knows the situation. Therefore, people in the city’s field, city councils, and the County Assembly would be the final places where people could decide who knew the situation on the ground and knew the people. Unfortunately, these situations aren't rare. We also have in the lower courts the situation that people are members of individual political parties and are very active and participate in the elections or as independent candidates. Calling on the responsibility of the leaders of the judicial authorities is, in that sense, if they knew that certain candidates were members of the political party or that they actively participated in the elections as members of independent lists. However, each of the candidates signs a statement on whether he is a member of the political party or not. It is signed under material and criminal responsibility. So if such a single information is falsely shown, then not only does it disqualify it for this most honorable function in the country at all as a judge, a judge of the jury, who has the same powers as the judge. Therefore, this should be accompanied by this proposal, which Beus said, we are inclined to do so, but in any case, to examine their candidacys, or their statements, so that concrete responsibility can be spoken of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55648	Thank you. State Secretary, in conclusion, Mrs Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55649	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the candidates mentioned above, the County Court in Zagreb and the County Court in Velika submitted their opinion that the candidates fulfil the conditions for judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, namely that the appointed have the necessary experience, which they have shown during the exercise of their previous jury duties in those county courts, and that there are no obstacles to their appointment within the meaning of Article 135, according to the information received at the time of the appointment of the judge of the jury. Court law. What to say after what was said, but also these two documents that I received today, rather than that there was clearly a need to verify once more candidates, although I say the data that we had that the Ministry of Justice had when the candidates were proposed were such that the candidates fully satisfy the conditions. ... He'll go check it out. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55650	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. So we'll decide when it's your turn. We move to - Proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, first reading, P.Z. Number 544 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the materials by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration Mr. Paul Maticic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55652	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The issues proposed to be regulated by the draft Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions are now governed by the Law on the financing of political parties, an independent list of candidates. As for the financing of the electoral promotion, five different electoral laws have been arranged. An analysis has been carried out of the application of the Law on the financing of political parties by a multidisciplinary working group, which was composed of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the State Election Commission, the State Audit Office, NGOs, Transparency International Croatia and the Central Authorities of the State Administration. The evaluation of political party financing was also carried out by the international organisation involved in the corruption of GRECO, and 6 recommendations were made to the Republic of Croatia. As far as we know, other countries that are members of the European Union are more recommended than the Republic of Croatia. The financing of the electoral promotion has been arranged as I have said in 5 different laws, but incompletely and in different ways, and this bill proposes to bring about a level playing field in the financing of electoral promotion in an entirely and unique way for all elections. On the basis of the results of the analysis carried out and the shortcomings observed in implementation, respecting the recommendations made by GREC, a proposal for a new law proposing to improve the system of financing political parties, independent lists and candidates, the upgrade of existing legal solutions in issues which are insufficiently regulated by law, and better quality and appropriate solutions to certain issues which are relevant to the legality and regularity of the conduct of the elections. Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes a proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. In the course of further exposure, I will look only at significant newspapers compared to solutions so far. So far, funding for one-year financing of political parties has been provided in the state budget of 00.56% of current budget expenditure. It is now proposed that the budget funds be provided at a lower amount of around 00.5% of the business growth achieved from the previously published annual report on the state budget. That's about a decrease of about 10%. Also so far, parliamentary political parties have proposed independent lists, independent representatives and representatives of national minorities who had representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the day of the end of the term, received the cost of election promotion in advance. It is now proposed that the right to compensation for election promotion costs for all participants is determined according to the criteria of the results achieved in the elections and to be paid after the elections have been made. So far, the maximum amount of a natural person's donation to a political party, an independent list and a candidate has been 90,000 kuna, and the legal person is one million kuna. It is now proposed to reduce the maximum amount of donation granted by a natural and legal person: A natural person can donate to one political party, an independent list and a candidate, and an independent representative and independent member of the representative body of units of local and regional self-government no more than 50,000 kuna in one year. As far as legal persons are concerned, they may donate up to a million kuna annually to the political party and to the candidate president of the Republic. 500 thousand kuna to an independent MP, an independent list of candidates for members of the national minority in the Croatian Parliament and in elections for the European Parliament. 50 thousand kunas to an independent list and candidate in the elections on local and regional self-government and an independent member of the representative body of local and regional self-government units. In addition to this reduction in the allowable amount of donation by natural and legal persons, a limitation of the total amount of election promotion costs is introduced. In such a way as not to exceed 8 million kuna in the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia, the total amount of election promotion costs per candidate or candidate list shall not be exceeded. One million and 500 thousand kuna in one election unit in the election for MPs in the Croatian Parliament and in the election for members of the European Parliament. 500 thousand kuna in the elections for the mayor and mayor of Zagreb. 100 grand in the election for the other mayors. 50,000 kuna in the election for municipal chiefs and in the election for members of representative bodies units of local and regional self-government. The bill proposes to introduce an obligation to pay mandatory payment of deposits before applying for candidates in the elections for the President of the Republic, which would be returned to the candidate after applying for an orderly candidacy until the deposit to those candidates whose candidacy is not fully paid into the budget. It is also proposed to limit the purpose to which funds are collected for the financing of election promotion costs can be used, and to prohibit the use of funds collected for the financing of election promotion costs, to settle the personal costs of candidates.l The obligation to open a special account for the financing of the election promotion except for independent candidates and holders of independent lists is proposed to also be prescribed for party candidates for the President of the Republic of Croatia and for party candidates for mayors, mayors, mayor of the City of Zagreb, while for party candidates for municipal chiefs, it is proposed that election promotion funds be paid at the expense of the political party in order to avoid the opening of an excessive number of special accounts and thus allow for more effective control to be carried out. In order to ensure a level playing field for independent list holders and independent candidates in raising funds for the financing of election promotion in relation to candidates proposed by political parties, which can collect donations throughout the year, it is proposed that a special bill for the financing of election promotion can be opened from the first day of the calendar year in which elections are held and that voters of independent lists and independent candidates can also raise funds throughout the year. The bill also proposes to improve the transparency system in the financing of political parties as it is the obligation of political parties to bear independent lists and candidates to publicly publish specific data on donations and election promotion costs. The law more detailedly regulates the issue of supervision and audit, and as authorities responsible for the implementation of supervision and audits as well as, according to so far, the Ministry of Finance and the State Audit Office are proposed, by proposing that the implementation of supervision and audits be more detailed and clearer to distinguish the roles in each of those bodies. This is one issue that has been contained and in the recommendation of GRECO which they have suggested, as they have written, great coordination of the bodies concerned should either be improved or replaced by a system which would have all supervisory functions entrusted to the single agency, in any case the supervisory authority or bodies should enjoy an adequate level of independence and have sufficient resources, including personnel specially trained to monitor the financing of political parties. The Government's proposal is yes, the Government has decided to improve the coordination of the bodies concerned in such a way that the implementation of surveillance and audits is a more detailed and clear-cutting role of the Ministry of Finance and the State Audit Office, which we think we have met the recommendations and the GRECO. In addition to the infringements imposed in the current laws, the draft law also proposes administrative sanctions for the conduct of the contrary to this law, which consists in the first instance of the loss of the right to compensation for election promotion costs, secondly, the suspension of the payment of funds for the regular annual financing of the state budget or the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government and thirdly, the loss of the right to the regular annual financing of the state budget, i.e. the budget of the units of local and regional self-government for a certain period. As you said, Mr. President, the law goes into first reading, so we believe that the comments and suggestions that go into the context of further improvement in this text of the law will be considered and we will try to install for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55653	Thank you. Before we continue, I would like to inform you, it would be common for the vote to extend, supplement the agenda and vote on the closed points to be around 12 hours. I once again inform these clubs specifically to secure the quorum at 12 o'clock so we can do all this we have planned. And now I'm asking if the committee's rapporteurs want a word on this agenda point? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55654	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the Law on the financing of political activities of the electoral promotion as it further improves the rules on the financing of political parties. We estimate that the proposed law represents a significant shift as it ensures transparency in financing and a good system of control, record of party income and costs, and adequately regulates sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions of this law. The Croatian Democratic Community is in the interest of establishing clear criteria in financing political activities and election promotions. We believe that part of the political responsibility of the parties, and so is the Croatian Democratic Community, is the party's action in line with the political goals and established programme of the party, but also the presentation of the public, primarily to citizens and voters of the amount of funds received, the way in which the spending resulting from the implementation of the programme that the party draws out through its annual programme. In fact, political parties are not their own purpose because the purpose of political parties is primarily to advocate the needs of voters, society, or to work towards the common good. It is true that the system of democracy rests on political parties, but the way political parties act, the availability of the funds delivered to them, donated from the state budget and the transparency of the availability of these funds depends largely on citizens' perception of the political action of individual parties and the role and character of politics and the role and character of individual politicians who manage and represent political parties. We can say that the existing system of funding of political parties stemmed from the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates was adopted in December 2006 and already when it was adopted it represented and brought a number of newspapers in the way political parties were financed and that when it was adopted, it was a major step in the transparency of the financing of political parties and election promotions. Namely, this law defined the sources of political parties not to be financed, prohibiting political pressure on legal persons in order to raise funds to finance political parties. A way of financing the parties from the budget has been established whether national, or local. The supervision of the financial operations of the party and independent lists and candidates has been established. However, what the State Secretary mentioned in his opening statement should also be said, which is that the whole system which defines the way political parties were financed was scattered in 6 laws and that through its implementation, the subjugation of certain provisions of the law itself was established and it was therefore necessary to approach the creation of a whole law which would in one place cover all those provisions which I have said so far have been distributed in six laws. The proposed provisions of this law regulate the financing of election campaigns in more detail, introduce a wide range of sanctions for breach of the provisions of this law, which has not been the case so far, and introduce spending restrictions on individual campaigns and, as well as recommendations from the Council of Europe. The proposed law therefore represents a significant step towards achieving international standards and better regulation of this issue when it comes to the primary funding of election campaigns. As already mentioned in the implementation of this law, the limits will be defined, i.e. the upper limits that individual parties can use through themselves, through the financing of election promotions whether it is an election promotion for Parliament's elections, whether it is a presidential election, whether it is an election for members of the European Parliament or elections for officials in local and regional self-government bodies, and thus practically define possible benefits in one year when elections are held. What is also important is that we in Croatia support the democratic community, which is that through the provisions of this law 10% reduction of funds has been determined and proposed to the parties and independent candidates from the state budget. And while I am already talking about this provision that this law provides, I would like to say that the total amount of funds that can be paid to the parties and independent candidates from the state budget has been reduced in the course of one financial and budgetary year, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community has already returned to the state budget of 10% of the funds that were intended for them and they belonged to them, that such a promise has been made by other political parties. However, they did not keep that promise in 2009. When it comes to the public financing of political parties, then we should say that the financing of political parties and the amount of funds that individual parties can use and receive either physically, either of the legal persons must be reduced to reasonable frameworks and that it is good that this law is first and foremost focusing more and more on the work of political parties depending on the funds collected from the budget. Although there is no uniform rule in the European Union as much as and how political parties are financed from the budget of these countries, it is still a trend in the European Union that political parties are increasingly financing and becoming dependent on the resources of the state budget. Only in the UK are political parties financed largely from funding from grants, from companies, companies, private owners who finance political parties, while in most European countries the trend is that political parties are financed mainly from public funds, so today in the Scandinavian countries, the amount which is financed by political parties is almost 90% the total amount and the budget of individual political parties. What's also good is when I talk about the donations the secretary of state spoke about so I don't repeat that if legal and physical persons can in the course of one year be they elective or not, they can transfer funds to individual political parties or candidates, or independent lists. It should be said that it is well proposed to define, in addition to the name of the natural person or legal person, the date on which that donation was made, because then the Tax Administration can control whether at that time that legal person had been obliged to pay a certain amount to the national budget. Because, as the law itself provides, legal persons who owe the state budget should not and should not pay donations to political parties. It is also good from the point of view of the spending control of the funds used by political parties, which finance their candidates, for example for the President of the Republic or for the Mayor, the mayors and mayors, that both the same and the individual candidate when the party transfers him certain funds because he must establish a special account for his election promotion, that both the candidate and the party must provide the IRS with the same information in order to further strengthen the control of the total funds. It is good for the supervision of the implementation of this law to be carried out both by the Ministry of Finance and the State Audit Office, although it seems to me that in the report of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the opinion of the State Audit has been highlighted and adopted that they are not the bodies that should exercise control over the implementation of this law but that, in that section which has been left to be supervised by the State Audit Office, they should be left to members or the State Election Commission, to whom the State Election Commission would form, I do not now know. But that should be resolved by the second reading, too. Otherwise, when it comes to transparency in the financing of political parties, I want to publicly say that the State Audit Office in the last two years, so for 2008 and 2009 a clear audit of the business of the Croatian Democratic Community has been carried out, and that, for both 2008 and 2009, an unconditional opinion has been given on the financial accounting, material business of the Croatian Democratic Community, so I can say that in the financial business of the Croatian Democratic Community, it is fully in line with the law, transparently, and I repeat, the State Office for Audit, by reviewing the financial operations of the Croatian Democratic Community and for 2008 and 2009, it has expressed its unconditional opinion, which clearly suggests that financial reports are objective and true representation of the business of the Croatian Democratic Community. What I'm still trying to say is that we support this bill, that there are still certain considerations that would point to the need to improve the law itself, we will do so later in an individual debate, and when it comes to the deposit that a single candidate must deposit when entering an election campaign, whether that deposit is burdening that part, another part of the possibility of financing his campaign, because, as we know, it is precisely how much and how a single candidate can contribute to his own campaign. All in all, therefore, by supporting this law, I can say that he brings... The transparent financing of political parties, to introduce order into the political system in the Republic of Croatia, to raise the level of political parties' work, requires greater responsibility for the leaders of political parties in the use of funds, whether they are delivered from the state budget or whether they are collected by individuals, natural or legal persons. [[You don't understand.]] So here's to the second reading of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will still be actively involved in improving the text itself, and we certainly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55655	On behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55656	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Here I am, on behalf of the SDSS Club, going to try to comment on this law which, the bill on the financing of political activities and election promotions. Generally speaking, we think that a good legal proposal has been made, just by the ambition to create an integral text that would, in one place, systematize through one such text six of the current rules that have so far regulated this electoral matter. We think this is how it's done solidly. It has now become more clear to us that in one place it regulates party financing, even financial flows within the parties themselves are in a way better determined, more transparent and donating, which is very important and especially of interest to smaller parties that do not have that donation factor as interesting and so expressed as these large parties. In particular, it is important to regulate and finance the category of election promotion in a special way. I say that again again very interesting and particularly interesting for smaller parties that have no funds, large amounts for political promotion. It is often perceived that big money is being spent in the promotion, and I can say that we are coming into a situation that after all the choices of regular and supplemental etc. often there is no means to take these basic procedures, such as promotions on local radios, televisions, etc. Therefore, if one more transparent picture of all this is interesting and interesting for the media, or interesting for the public, then good work has been done here. It is also interesting that, in our opinion, there have been specific conditions for candidateship for the President of the Republic, because these last elections have shown that there has been everything in this candidacy, and I think we have made one move towards some democratic standards and methodologies as it is done in the Western world. So if the question is asked every time it's made, it brings legal text to what the legion of some law has said. If he has ordered the legislation to systematise the regulations, to introduce financial discipline into the very financial work of the parties, to finance, to donate, and to make transparency in all of this, then we think he's racing the legion of this law and we'll achieve it anyway. However, as nothing is ideal, so we cannot say that this legal text is completely ideal from our point of view, and since this is the first reading we will say a few suggestions on three articles and expect the Proposer to consider it, to comment on it, and simply if he considers it an interest to increase the quality of this legal text, to include it in the second reading. In particular, Article 3 is interesting to us. We understand that this crisis requires a certain recession of funds, and only this reduction of funding, regular funding of 0.56 per cent to 0.50. We, like all parties, will accept, but very reluctantly, and I here have to say that this will affect, significantly affect the regular business of parties, because I say big parties like HDZ, a colleague said that you were willing to give up, you gave up 10% of your resources, every honor, it's all right, but we're not in a situation where 10% of the funds give up. We would like to, or wish, if we were in this situation if we could give up these funds, but the only source of our funds is precisely three parliamentary mandates and with existing infrastructure that has been developing for years on the ground and in the party itself, it will significantly question party financing. However, if the general trend and common opinion of all are to be reduced, we will certainly not be against it. However, it is much more important for us to arrange this second part of Article 3(2), where it is said about the regular financing of political parties and independent representative bodies, independent members of representative bodies by units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Here says self-government is provided in the amount determined in the budget of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government for each year for which the budget is adopted. Experience has shown that in units and areas and even some regional self-governments access this thing, somewhere even some units of local self-government don't even allocate any funds to finance political parties, they don't consider it a special obligation. And we think that this obligation should be tied to some percentage, that is, to some percentage of the operating expenditure of local self-government, such as the state-level model. So that's what I'm saying out of experience, because I often get into a situation where we have to pray for current authority, Commissioners, etc. that those legal means that were required to single out the political parties' work at the bar, which is very important because these political parties, first they are very small amounts and then such small amounts are unscheduled or they are not paid in any way leading to the blocking of the work of the political parties themselves. The next thing I'd like to say is which is particularly interesting to us, and that's Article 7, we think that the allocation of funds is based on the political party's central account, or a special account of independent representatives, is a good solution. Why do I say that? Because so far, we have had in practice the Law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and candidates, so in Article 13, we said that the funds are provided for the regular financing of political parties in the budget of units of local and regional self-government, and are allocated to the jury account of the political party's branch. I say again, perhaps that was appropriate for certain political parties. Perhaps this meant better business awareness, etc. But it didn't suit us. Now in the last audit reports, it's turned out to be wrong. It is also suggested by the auditors that these funds, therefore, which have an obligation to pay local and regional self-government, are paid into the party's central account, and then by internal acts, that distribution is carried out within the party itself. Why? Because we've been in a situation where we have to open up jury accounts for exaggeration money by county organizations. It's a very small asset. Often, these accounts were more expensive than the inflow of funds. It is further the incompetence of the persons who run that financial paperwork within the party itself. And when we finally came to the audit report, then we see that this paperwork at the time of the county organisation of the party was not working and that the whole party suffered because of it. Therefore, the report at the end of the revision suggests that these things are sort of arranged and that these things should be removed. That is why we are also suggesting that you, in the second reading in paragraph 2, classify this provision and also say that these funds will be paid, says here in the political party's jury account, we say in the political party's central account as you have defined it everywhere. And in the case of donations and promotion funds, the campaign, you've defined it that way everywhere, so we suggest you take that definition, too. And finally, we think that the transitional and final provisions should also determine criminal liability, as I said to the head of local self-government who are unsupervised in the implementation of these obligations, the allocation of certain financial resources for the work of political parties. Because here, through criminal responsibility, you only commit political parties, independent candidates, etc. as users of these funds. And we have not found anywhere and we have not said anywhere that there is both a criminal or even some serious criminal liability for executives who are obliged in their budgets each year to determine a certain percentage for the work of financial parties not only longer than 9 but also, within that period of 3 months, to regularly pay it. Let's put some kind of financial order into it all together and then somehow this will finally get some form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55657	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55658	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I absolutely agree with this initiative that all the leaders of local self-government who are disorderly fulfilling their obligations, and also with those parties whose members themselves are themselves, should in some way be "infringed" or already sanctioned. However, let me now touch this Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. This law is according to me, gentlemen. I would say the fig leaf of Croatian Parliamentism. No one in Croatia has ever reported to me in either Italy, France, Austria, Germany the exact amount of campaign financing, so I'm afraid it won't happen in the future either. When I talk about it then I think about last presidential elections and parliamentary elections, and local elections as well as the elections that were 5, 10 or 15 years ago. Also, someone wouldn't think that I think independent candidates properly represent all their financial expenditures. And you can finally imagine how independent they are, especially our tycoons who go to elections how independent then they are when they own media, portals, so let's see who's able to write against whoever's funding it. Not one Vesnik against the government, so where are these other media outlets that appear on the market? What's changing here? What's new about this one I call a fig leaf? It's the first time you've ever been punished. They're dragonish but about those penalties a little later. The amount that the state provides in the budget is reduced, meaning from 0.056% and goes to 0.050%. It would be good to compare it to, say, NGOs. As much as they are financed from the budget, they would be surprised whether certain reductions are foreseen there. Then donations. I can't understand, for example. why one million kuna can be donated for the presidential elections under this bill and 500 thousand kuna for the parliamentary elections. And Croatia should at least be one parliamentary democracy. For me, these relationships don't make any sense, but such donors that will give you 100, 200, 250, 500 or million kuna are really small and whoever is willing to give that money to someone and then know that you've charged that one many times with 200, 500 or million kuna through various forms of public competitions, jobs, services, allowing him not to pay for tourist land etc., etc. I guess that's at least clear to us who are in this House. It is also clear that all those sitting in this House are not in an equal position. Some can be financed from assets, others cannot be financed from assets. Some who are at the head of the state are always in a better position when it comes to money than those parties that are not at the head of the state. The same goes for those parties headed by the county, the cities, the municipalities, to be completely open. However, I would dare say that this law is written for 2.3 parties and tycoons who are prone to politics, which are already allegedly some of them are buying media spaces, etc., and which clearly no media will ever negatively write against. Before that, let me just touch this famous article 23. It says the financing of political parties by foreign states, foreign political parties, foreign legal entities is prohibited. Absolutely, but the same logic should probably apply to some of the "non-governmental associations". But that should add that individuals who control the media, who control the distribution, whose state allows the monopoly also shouldn't, normally I'm joking, I don't mean seriously, to show party ambitions when the whole state is subordinated to them and in their function. I said I was joking, but maybe you should think about it. Article 17, page 14, limitation of the total amount of election campaign costs, says 8 million kuna in elections for the president of the Republic of Croatia, million and 500 thousand kuna in one election election unit for representatives of the Croatian Parliament, million and 500 thousand kuna for the European Parliament elections, 500 thousand kuna for mayoral elections, mayor of the City of Zagreb, 100 thousand kuna for mayoral elections, 50 thousand kuna for the mayors, etc. Why am I saying that this law is only written for two parties or tycoons? For example, 8 million kuna for the presidential election was a fantastic money. Who could have gathered him in the last election? It could have been collected by HDZ, SDP, Bandic clearly, perhaps by Mr Vidosevic. For example, 500 thousand kuna should now cost the mayor's campaign or 100 thousand kuna for the mayor. one Split, one Rijeka, one Pula, one Osijek, etc. Well, 100,000 kuna for their election is just ridiculous. I've been carrying a list for the Istria County Assembly without any posters, videos, ads, but I don't know if anyone else in Istria would do it. But what I'm saying is, you see, I said once before, tycoons have media. Now, as far as finance is concerned, whether the elections are being held or whether the elections are just the ones being held for the last 15 or 21 days or all the media are doing for them over a period of four years. The tycoons prefer television, portals, distribution of presses etc. The HDZ somehow has an impact on HRT, however, which is 500 thousand kuna on the other side. 500 thousand kuna, when we translate that into advertising space, that's 23 videos in front of the 15-second Dnevnik. One spot for 15 seconds, now that there was a presidential race, it cost me, not me, but those who financed me to be honest, 23 thousand kuna with 50% discount. So, no video recording, no video processing, etc. You with 500 grand can show up on HRT 23 times. I showed up on HRT six times, on New TV six times. One page of advertising in some media, I didn't have one is 20, 40, 60 thousand kuna. One of these jumbo posters or those posters with pictures etc., 50 posters at least 100 thousand kunas. One tent of 15 thousand kuna with a loudspeaker, the PRs, and then these radios, the chemical, the stamps, the badges, I don't know what they're about to cost you. How much on the other hand he takes, the Dirty Theatre, Colonia, Gignonni, Gustavi, Shajeta, Elio Pisak now after he's back from the Farm, let's know he'll sing for his friends for nothing, but these are the gentlemen the prices I'm trying to talk about. And that's why we don't need to paint, and that's why we need to look ourselves in the eye, let's face it, it's the power that's carrying, but it's the power that costs. The power absolutely brings, the power is not given, it is conquered, and when it is won it is held by both hands and feet, so if it should be with teeth. Here, when you look at prices now you know why I call this law a fig leaf of Croatian democracy because I know that no one will respect it, so everyone will just spend it more. Do I repeat again, the mayor of Pula or Poreč, Rovinj or Rijeka, Split or Osijek will spend 100 thousand kuna for the elections, or is that cca 14,000 euros. Will a mayor, whether in Istria or Dalmatia or Slavonsko-Baranja County spend 500 thousand kuna or translated 68 thousand euros for the elections. I wish that were the case, but I know that's not the way it's gonna be, and that's why I dare say that this kind of stupidity of the law doesn't have a single country. I don't know the same thing on the other hand that bureaucrats in this country could propose a law like this. Probably someone whose policy has secured the job, and this bureaucrat who can thank politics again has probably never been to the polls, but he's probably got far more from politics than any MP. We'll get to this second law later on on these rights so we can see what the MPs have, what the ministers have, what the secretary of state, the head of the agency, the editor-in-chief of these state media, etc., etc. I'm saying that in front of all of them, the MPs were playing the last hole in the game. However, when it comes to this law, this law can also be viewed in a different way and that is why I say that it is written exclusively for two parties and tycoons. Croatia we all know there are 127 cities. Now, when these 127 cities, if one party covers all of Croatia by 100,000, it means 12.7 million kuna can be spent on these cities. Croatia also has 429 municipalities times 50,000 which is to you, this party can provide additional to those 12.7 million kuna, 21.1 million kuna. So 50,000 kuna for 556 local councils, which municipalities, which cities, which is another 27000 kuna for you, then 500,000 kuna for the mayors and mayors of Zagreb. 21 times 500,000 that's 10.5 million kuna. So local elections can or someone can provide 72.8 million kuna for local elections. Now what are the parties that this money can secure? Maybe two and not a third. Now that would be some real price to pay for some local elections. They cost far more, far more, and I said that I could only afford two parties. Or in Istria, let's be in an Istrian position. 500000 kuna for the mayor plus 10 cities million kuna plus 32 municipalities 1.6 million kuna plus 50,000 kuna for all representative bodies is 2.1 million kuna. So all of this together could be 5.2 million kunas in one county like Istrian. That's right, but I'm also asking you not to paint and deceive with numbers like this. You know who this law will finally be the biggest blow to? Well, there will be the biggest hit on the media, on those who rent posters, on musicians, etc. etc. Because half of them only live out of choice. Although, also to be honest, I'm really surprised that someone's going after someone to secure the money for the election. Then, one and a half million kuna for the constituency. That could be real times 12, times 11, sorry. Then you can figure out how much money it is. But a million and a half kuna for the European Parliament, and Croatia will be one electoral unit that is simply ridiculous. Well, what about Europe when we get into it is another thing. But once again I say a million and a half kuna for European elections, and Croatia is one electoral unit is ridiculous. 16 and a half million kuna for parliamentary elections, that's money, that's huge money, but I know that some have spent a lot, a lot more times than is now proposed. And eight million kuna for the president of the state is a decent amount, but I know that at least four, five spent far more than that. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Okay. Anyway, let me just finish it one more time. For me, this law is a fig leaf of Croatian parliamentism and is simply proposed by people who do not know what is parliamentary or political life and how much it actually brings to someone and how much it costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55659	Thank you. It took a long time to get a fig leaf. It is next to the club HNS, HSU, the distinguished representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55660	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the motionary. The Croatian People's Party party club of the pensioners in principle supports the issue of a systematic solution to the financing of political parties and campaigns, i.e. candidates and elections, because the practice so far has shown a whole range of uncertainty, uncertainty and controversy. The most recent examples of this are the French from the presidential campaign when, in the first instance, candidate Primorac received a 2 million kuna donation without a problem, although such a donation to political party candidates was inadmissible, and candidate Bandic had to return donations collected by phone calls, or donations on a special phone line, although such a type of collection of donations was not prevented by the current Law on the financing of the presidential campaign. The State Election Commission in the first instance reacted, and in the second, it did not. That is, these are two reasons, i.e. two of the French examples from which it is apparent that this topic should be dealt with systematically and transparently. In this regard, we welcome this intensity, but we also expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to define by a single law how to resolve the financing of political activities and political promotions, that the same single law also defines the issue of choice for both local and national and for the President of the Republic and for the European Parliament. However, this text that was delivered to us in our first reading deserves a whole series of remarks, deserves a careful analysis and deserves a critical approach. We're going to try to show some of the illogicalness and some of the complete nonsense that's listed here. In Article 3(1), the new percentage is defined as the framework for the financing of political parties from the state budget. The proposal is to make it 0.05% of the budget, which means in practice that the funds so far are reduced by 10%. This large parties to which 80% of the total budget is going may not even feel, but all other parties will, so let's say that for example, the third party in the country receiving 2 million kuna per year can prove the lack of such access, because all the small parties will be pushed into the hands of customerelem by forcing them into the private market, i.e. the donor and sponsor market, which completely changes the current concept of political campaign financing, and we need to be aware of that and we need to get a response from the Government whether this is a new policy. In fact, so far, this has been done transparently from the budget. Now suddenly priority is private funds. We must be aware that this carries great risks to the development of parliamentaryism, and when we compare how much it is in absolute terms we come up with some very grotesque data. For example. political parties system-defined factors of political life. Political parties are the ones through which the total parliamentary democracy is being transferred. According to the 2009 budget, they would receive a total of 59 million kuna, and on the other hand, the religious community gets no less than seven times as much as that, and the religious communities are no factor in parliamentary political life, nor should political life be at all. And not only that, but the religious communities, in particular the Catholic Church, are increasing the means of establishing each parish by automated means. There's no such thing here. So you can be whatever the party you want, you can have whatever infrastructure you want developed on you doesn't apply. Furthermore, Article 5(1) proposes that the allocation of appropriations be determined according to a given date, which is the moment of the establishment of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. We think it's not good, because it leaves room for political corruption and agreements between the elections themselves and the establishment of representative bodies. We propose to introduce a new defining moment, which is the official election results declared by the DIP. So we will destimulate political corruption, and already we see that it is still, despite the Law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors in action. We have several representative bodies where the political trade is open and where it goes from bus to bus, even in cases where the mandates are not earned on their own list, but on the coalition list. Do we want to encourage political corruption, or do we want to stop it? In addition, Article 11(3) and (4) define the grant limits to 50 thousand kuna for natural and million kunas for legal persons, i.e. 500 000 kuna for independent lists and candidates. We're asking here what's the difference between a legal person and a natural person in this case? Well, there's a legal person without a single employee. There are companies with one single employee. We think it's completely unsustainable and that these are directly driven by candidates and lists in the midst of corporate interests. If President Obama, after the Supreme Court's decision, has promised to do everything to combat the corporateist approach to financing political parties, then that means something, then it is a very important political issue. If this is in an American country where a corporate approach to finance has led to the erosion of political morality, then it would be wiser to learn. Furthermore, I say in Article 14(3), the opening of a special account for candidates for mayors, mayors and mayors, regardless of who proposed them. It's gradually unsustainable. In fact, the practice shows that it is candidates who are also the holders of the list for representative bodies. By the logic of the matter, a political party or a political list of candidates who are unable to propose a candidate for executive power is not a serious political factor. Who will vote for a list that is unable to determine who is her candidate or visionary of local development? Who will distinguish two campaigns and in what way? This is a technical question, but a very important question and it seems to us that this law has been written by people who have never participated in campaigns, and in particular have overlooked the practice of a new system of elections of direct choice, so mayors, mayors and mayors. Further item 4 of the account opening, says no later than the day of the application, and the earliest day of the calendar year in which the elections are held. And what about the extraordinary election? What if the elections are held on January 3rd? Well, we know very well that the decisions on calling extraordinary choices are made in the time frame. Then what's the deadline? Go on. In paragraph 5 of that Article, the following Article shall apply: The donations shall be collected by the end of the election promotion. We don't think that's a good solution. So Hillary Clinton is still collecting donations today to close her account, or campaign debts, for the presidential candidate. Milan Bandic closed his financial commitments significantly after the campaign itself. What is questionable about agreeing with the donor a subsequent payment if it is known how long the promotion takes and when the bills are just arriving? We don't see much of a problem here. We suggest that compensation be paid, we suggest that the limit be put to the settlement of campaign commitments, because what are we otherwise going to declare bankruptcy of the candidates? Well, that's funny. In particular, this is due to the fact that Article 22 defines that payments from the budget will be made on a special account no later than 60 days from the date of publication of the final official results of the election. How do you get in a relationship with each other? It's a complete distraction. Go on. Article 16(2), perhaps ridiculous, says that it is forbidden to pay off, to pay off donations for, say, personal clothing. Well, that's a completely old-fashioned approach. We know that staging is one of the top criteria in modern political campaigns. Well, he can't run around naked for God's sake. The other thing is, are we going to go to absurdities with this provision, and we're going to say, "What about shoes, umbrellas, jokes, what about hats?" So let's not be ridiculous. Go on. Article 17 paragraph 1 of the 2nd indent states that the restriction is about limiting the cost of election promotion. As far as the presidential elections are concerned, we have no objections, as far as parliamentary ones are concerned, it is said in the electoral unit, and is this related to the electoral unit or to the electoral unit, this limit? So it's adding up. And did he recognize the proponent of campaign technology for parliamentary elections where there is a national campaign and there are campaigns in each local constituency. What if the party has candidates in national minority, say, election units? Furthermore, the limit of one and a half million kuna for the European Parliament is completely unsustainable. The European Parliament's campaign most resembles the presidential campaign. To limit it to one and a half million actually proves that we are not serious about this proposal. What is the difference between national campaigns in all three cases of presidential, parliamentary, European Union? Let's let the motionor define it so we can see exactly why these differences are so different. Go on. Article 17 paragraph 1 of the fifth indent of the campaign cost for the mayor to 100 thousand, indent 6 to 50 grand for the municipal chiefs. That's total nonsense to us. Why? who can compare their common senses with a campaign for the mayor of Split, which has 160 thousand voters, with a campaign for the mayor of Komiza, who has less than a thousand and a half voters? Split has at least three TV stations, and Komiza has no local list, so the candidate can be handled three times during the campaign with each of his constituents, and only in Split if you publish four ads in "Free Dalmatia" you spent this entire amount. Or we move on to see what it looks like in the Municipality of Zadvori which has 203 voters and in the municipality of Cepin who has 11 thousand voters or compare the town of Komiž with a thousand and a half voters and the municipality of Cepin with 11 thousand voters. Well, that's ridiculous, extremely irresponsible. It would be logical to determine the limits either by the number of voters or by the percentage of the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Then it's a sustainable solution. Furthermore, Article 18(1) states that candidates for the President of the Republic are obliged to pay a deposit of 50 thousand kuna. What's that now? Introducing financial similarities? So we don't have 500 grand or 5 million to know right away who's gonna run for office and who's gonna run for office. So we have a tycoon list right now and we've solved the problem. The financial resemblance to introducing here is an anti-constitutional element. Second. If technical equipment or material resources can be introduced at the start of the company, then we ask if it is possible to tie 5 cows to the State Election Commission, 4... ox or tractor, or maybe Maybach, or Ferrari, Porsche or Mercedes, it is not important to be used only to cost more than 50,000 kuna. The State Election Commission has calculated that 5 kunas will be charged for counting each signature. And their captainship is good, and they get paid. Will they receive the debtors of the poor candidates? Furthermore, is it not possible to resolve this by electoral law and by increasing the limits of the necessary signatures? Why are we embarrassing ourselves here? Furthermore, the right to compensation for the cost of election promotion from the state budget or local budget is placed on 10% of the vote. So wouldn't it be good to go in a normal way and the principle that they have the right to those who have crossed the threshold and entered the representative body? So you with 9.7% of the votes can have a mandate in the European Parliament and you have no right to any compensation for promotion. Well, that's funny. Furthermore, the amount of the fee for the promotion costs shall be determined by the Government within 20 days before the election day. Wouldn't it be fairer if it determined the election day that the campaign could be more transparent, more concrete, and more correct? Furthermore, we have already mentioned that Article 22 defines that payment period after the election, and the practice shows if there is no criminal provision, that municipalities and cities do not have any obligation. Well, we now have a case of political parties having to press charges against the court. That's why a criminal provision is needed here. Furthermore, it says funding is prohibited from foreign countries and others abroad except in the case of education. And what about the elections for the European Parliament if we know in advance that our party list, i.e. candidates entering the European Parliament, will be part of the same club or faction in the European Parliament. If the relevant political election issue is a cross-border issue, if the campaign is conducted parallelly in several countries why is it impossible to maintain a unique and...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55661	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55662	Thank you very much. One more minute. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55663	He can't. Thank you. Your time is up, you can't tell how much longer you're going to talk. You can finish and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55664	I asked you for a minute. In any case, we are not pleased that all the lists in municipalities and cities are virtually excluded from the revision in Article 38(2), because when we multiply it by real participants, it is at least 55 million kuna, if there is only one list in each municipality and city, or if you take realistically to participate in 10 lists on average, it is over half a billion kuna. It's not good for the audit to pass. In this regard, we ask on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club that the proposal for a second reading is significantly completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55665	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Josip Leko. Excuse me, we have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55666	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mr. Beus said he's heading towards funding political parties through donations, not budgets. Which is really not true. Because the law is here and it is proposed to do exactly the opposite to reducing the amount of donations allowed by a natural person, but also by legal persons. But what must have fooled you, or what you misjudged, is because of a HDZ procedure that reduced 10% of its assets last year and returned to the budget, while your party did not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55667	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55668	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the Government proposers of this law, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to point out that the SDP will support this law in its first reading. Secondly, it is necessary to have a full law on the financing of policies and political parties and promotional activities. Thirdly, I am unusually sorry that after 20 years of Croatian democracy and political parties, we are passing this law as instructed by the European Union to close Chapter 23. Were we not able and prepared, which he pointed out in this Parliament at least 10 times to regulate the area of financing of political parties and overseeing these financing of an independent body as it exists in organised democratic countries. Thirdly, it is important to note, the SDP advocates the public financing of political parties of electoral promotion, with only a member's membership with the public money. It is a trend in the world, because political parties are of the public interest of social communities and in Croatia are raised to the level of constitutional law. In other words, such a situation would be easier to control the financial business of political parties, political activity and promotional activity. Political parties could in no case be linked to economic donations often motivated by political influence. Secondly, what we want to say publicly is that this bill does not foresee an independent body that could control the financing of political parties, particularly political promotions in real time. The independent body that is listed here to control political parties and political promotion from the financial position is the State Review, which itself said, and has no tools to do so, so it is neither legally nor humanly qualified to do so. Why legal? Because the State Audit is for the control of budget spending, not for the control of donations from private, private or individual companies, and the law provides that. Therefore, it is explicitly said by the State Audit and, in that case, unnecessary and impossible to expect from the State Audit, which is doing a review of post-festum documents, when the election promotion or the financial year ends and political parties submit their financial reports. Third, which is very important to point out, neither the Committee on the Constitution nor the political system nominated in Article 42 is an independent body capable of controlling the work of political parties, in particular it cannot control the spending of public money in the course of the electoral promotion itself. If this is added, Article 41 provides that the Ministry of Finance, therefore, is to control the spending of political parties' money even if it considers that money has been illegally used, that it imposes even penalties. In this situation, we have a completely wrong direction of this bill because in real political time, an independent body can control the spending of public money and electoral promotion, and here it is not foreseen. Why don't we just take it over and train the State Election Commission that's in principle for this and set it up? Therefore, we will disburse doubts about the spending of public money during the election promotion and the general spending of public money in political parties because it cannot be done by the State Audit or has been trained by tools or by law, nor by the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system because it is a politically dependent body, nor has a staff-trained service for this, and we have a State Election Commission which otherwise oversees the conduct of elections in the Republic of Croatia. Why don't we train him to control and spend public money and control law enforcement in election promotion. So if we give the other body we're going to have to provide personnel, train them, and the situation is complicated because more bodies are created for the same thing. About some of the solutions that the law provides, I have already said, it is about control, independent body and others, and the very provisions about limiting the spending of funds in the election promotion I welcome. Whether it is a constraint of the spending of funds for a particular party, whether it is a limitation of funds for an individual official, whether it is a local or a state official, but an unequal limit in this law, it is necessary to find elements that speak of unification. It is not the same to seek support in an environment that has 500 thousand voters or 200 thousand voters or in the middle where everyone knows each other, 1200 voters. It is an important political fact for the presentation of candidates and for the presentation of a political programme. So there must be criteria that allow politicians and politicians to present themselves equally to their electoral body, especially as we advocate it to be public money. Then all possible political corruption was avoided through donations or support. Our opinion is also that, as foreseen, it is impossible in real political time to take measures to sanction abuse in the financing of political parties and political promotions. In other words, it seems to me that even now, despite the very serious situation in the negotiation of Chapter 23, we are trying in a formal way to meet the need for the European Union, and we do not see that it is very important in our home, in our social community, in Croatian society to ensure that the system in itself works. If you have an independent body then it will do the job, will not be subject to any political option and will not be interested in hiding anything or favoring anyone. I think we need to start here from the beginning and see why they haven't done it so far when there have been such proposals, two three amendments to the Law on political parties and the financing of political parties. Of course, since I initially said that a law which fully addresses the issue of policy financing and political parties is needed, that we advocate that it should be financed by public and public money and that members of political parties, members of political parties and that an independent body be established that will be able to control and sanction and punish the violation of the Law on the financing of political parties, that support for such a law by the SDP is provided, but if it is fully solved what is sought, and we do not mistake the matter so that we can say that we have passed a law that does not solve the problem as a whole. So, first reading support from the Social Democratic Party of the Club will be, but in the second reading we expect to look at the whole need for control and financing of political parties of election promotion in the way it is arranged in democracies and countries with a longer tradition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55669	Thank you. It is the Club of National Minority Representatives, the distinguished representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55670	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. The National Minorities Club as well as most clubs have so far supported the adoption of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, and if nothing else then precisely because many have mentioned it since it has been scattered in many laws, since the criteria are not unique everywhere. However, I would like to stress that here, in the introduction of the law-making ministry, it has indeed introduced some truths that independent representatives have not been followed, that they are not controlled etc. You know that the Law on Political Parties and Independent Representatives has imposed control on the same way as controlling political parties, submitting the report equally when they submit political parties, so I would like to warn that sometimes we ourselves are bringing misinformation into the public media, which is very often misused. It is good that the aim of this law is in a unique way to regulate funding for all elections. But I'm afraid that's the way it's going to be because I've already got to point out, and I'm going to focus primarily on minorities, that there should be elections for the Council of National Minorities that are also not defined, which are being conducted in various patterns. One part is conducted according to the elections for local self-government units, one part being implemented according to some state guidelines. So I think maybe we should have considered it here, and since it's been said by the government before that elections for the Council of National Minorities will be regulated by law if we don't want to do it again in some other law, maybe we should consider that it is really defined in this law. The criterion is that results will be achieved in the elections, which definitely changes much of the financing of the promotion. Maybe it's, uh, awkwardly selected dates. Someone here has already mentioned that although the election campaign we know when the funds move will be determined only 20 days before the elections themselves, which is certainly not the solution. On the other hand, there is an obligation to submit a series of reports, and the article says that the government will pay off the funds within 60 days. You are required to report seven days before the election of what you have collected, what you have spent. First of all, in the course of the biggest campaign, you have to submit a report, and since both our political parties and most of them have so far been funded right from budget funds, less than from the membership fees will practically most of them raise loans, loans financial burdens have until the loan returns. The credit will be able to return the moment they receive funds from the state. So it is possible and 60 days after the election, and the report should be submitted within 15 days of the election. What's that report gonna look like? That report can't be final. This report can be submitted 15 days after receiving funds from at least the budget, because I say 80% of our campaigns are usually funded from the budget. And in the end, someone here today has also said that we shouldn't give too much attention, but also try to get large funds from donations because it binds it to certain corporations, with donors who always expect a certain amount of anti-value. So I think about these deadlines and reporting in the course of the campaign, but also about the final submission of the report must be linked together with the revenues. So, both the government and the ones that you've acquired from credits and the closing of credits, etc. That depends on who gets by. However, I will focus more on the problem of independent representatives, or independent lists. Since it is a matter of equating criteria, I have little concern that donations are about the difference between political parties and independent lists. Political parties can accept, meaning from a legal person a million kuna, but an independent list why it is less valuable can receive only 500,000. When it comes to individual candidates, then I agree that there may be restrictions, but when it comes to a fully competitive list, according to the political party, it should not be discredited by a quality independent list in the sense that it cannot receive a donation as well as a political party. Article 7 states that both independent representatives and independent members of the representative body are obliged to open a special jury account. You know that according to the business of our banks and our legislation, any person can only have one jury account. Here you push to open another jury account, you don't have a legal personality, you can't get an OIB and everything gets stuck in the same private basket, and you want transparency. I call on the applicant here to seriously consider giving legal personality to the regular business of the representative so that, indeed, for an office which the representative, i.e. probably the other representatives of other representative bodies or councilors, if they have to do so in order to have a legal personality that means they can get a jury account on legal personality, that they can then get an OIB and that it still does not interfere with their private account. Because these are the funds that are set for political action. They have nothing to do with the private account, and it's very hard to track. If you mean you commit a violation you have two jury accounts all that's being followed again through the private OIB which is not right. It's the same with the employee. If you're not a legal person, your lawyer you hired on the ground will be treated as a housekeeper. I would like to stress that perhaps the solution is, as other countries have, where parliaments open their offices, where parliaments take care of employees and then this legal personality does not need because then Parliament directly pays for all this and then the representative is not directly responsible and then does not need legal personality. But if he has to run the office, he has to have an employee, or he has to have a special jury account and the OIB because otherwise we're going into violations. I would also like to look back on Article 8. It is right that the representative, an independent representative, an independent councilman after the end of the term of office of funds that he had to finance his activity return. However, the second paragraph, that the cash amount of the market equivalent of the assets obtained by the state budget, or the budget of the regional self-government must be paid back, can be returned to you by the full assets, none of these people need a served closet or a computer, I think the solution here is to open up the possibility of donations, those donations of associations, or those represented by a representative or representative or councilman. It's not really good to talk on behalf of the club about a personal attitude, but the office property has been purchased, and the computers in my office, when it's over why I should pay for the state, that equivalent, because I don't need it anymore, but I'm certainly not interested in staying in my property, and I want to give it to the associations that I represent so far, and that possibility here should be given, or that it should be returned to someone with an xx, because I don't want to burden my salary, and I think I want to work honestly for honest money. We have a few more objections, and I've already mentioned here that difference between independent lists. I mentioned the legal personality and the inability to open a jury account, unless it's a legal person. I was a little distracted by Article 18 where the deposit is spoken of and where the deposit is to be paid before the application is submitted, when it comes to the President of the Republic for sure that it is good, so that there are not so many candidates, it is certain that the funds will be returned afterwards, however, says in the event of an irregularity, the State Election Commission will pay the funds into the state budget, and then in the last sentence, the State Election Commission will also, with a deposit without delay, be paid back to the persons who paid the deposit, but have not submitted at all, as well as the persons who submitted the application in good faith. What's that in good faith? Who will judge what is in good faith? So we're going to pay someone under this item, we're not going to return those funds, we're going to pay them back to the state budget, and we're going to pay someone else in good faith if we determine certain irregularities that we're going to pay back. I think the criterion here must be unique and there can be no such difference. As far as this part of the credit fund is concerned, and I have already talked about it the same way, so I think that this part should take very good care of the terms that are given, which should be harmonised well, as well as that we are interested in really defining elections for the Council of National Minorities, because there is no such definition of the financing of the promotion for those councils of national minorities that are actually taking place at local level, but I think it is very important that this is built in here if we do not really want to create another law. We will therefore support the law in the first reading, ask for certain deadlines to be taken into account, to bring it in line, and to consider the adoption and election for the councils of national minorities, i.e. financing the responsibilities of individuals, etc., just as candidates do in other elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55671	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55672	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. By passing this law, and we believe that after this debate has been held and that certain improvements have been made, which we heard in the debate, the Republic of Croatia will for the first time receive a full regulation that detailedly regulates the financing of political activities and election promotion. And so far, this issue has been legally regulated but the provisions on the financing of political activities and electoral promotions have been contained in several laws, which makes this area immeasurable and only partially regulated, and therefore intransparent, so that citizens' mistrust towards political parties, when it comes to the financing of political promotion activities, is not only understandable but I would say justifiable. In fact, it is understandable to mistrust political parties, because the rules governing the financing of party activities and election promotions are not an adequate regulatory framework, i.e. behind all these laws, the flow of political parties' money is rather hidden. And it should not be forgotten that there is neither adequate sanctions for political parties nor for independent candidates unless they fulfil the law of the prescribed obligation, or if they do not publicly disclose the amount and amount of funds spent in political activities and election promotion, or if the funds spent have been spent for personal benefit. The Proposer notes in his explanation that the existing legal provisions identify many shortcomings, irregularities in the provisions themselves, and an unequal attitude towards political activities and election promotions at different levels, starting with the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, to the election of the mayors in municipalities, but also an unequal attitude towards political parties and independent candidates on the financing of political activities and election promotions. It is precisely the issue of financing the electoral promotion that has been highlighted as one of the most important issues that requires more regulation of legislation, in order to bring us closer to the standards and practices of the European countries in view of the practice so far which points to certain irregularities. It also identified the inequality of existing solutions to the positive legal rules on early reports at the level and sources of funds collected for the cost of election promotion, as well as the inequality of legal solutions in relation to prohibited sources of funding. The Proposer points out that in the drafting of this law... the results of the analysis of the Law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and candidates carried out by a multidisciplinary working group for the development of a full analysis of the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates. [[You don't understand.]] These recommendations relate to ensuring the inclusion in the annual accounts of political parties and entities directly or indirectly linked to the political party or under its control, to setting deadlines for publication of annual reports, to harmonising the provisions on the financing of the election campaign contained in various electoral laws, to establishing independent mechanisms for monitoring the financing of political parties and independent lists and candidates, and to establishing effective... and dissuasive sanctions for violations of the rules relating to the financing of election campaigns. [[You don't understand.]] We at the HSS Club believe that the adoption of this law will significantly improve the financing of political activities and election promotions, and above all make them transparent. The fact that the law before us fully addresses the issue of financing political activity, election promotions at all levels. In itself, it represents significant progress, and it is important to highlight the significant content of the new law in relation to the positive regulations that regulate the area of funding for political activities and election promotions. We particularly welcome the mechanisms that prevent the non-execution of political parties and independent lists and candidates within the prescribed deadline and in such a way as to ensure that, if the obligations of political parties, independent lists and candidates result from this law are not implemented within the prescribed deadline and content, political parties and independent lists, candidates lose the right to compensation for election promotion costs. We know that this fee represents a significant amount regardless of the level of choice and that the loss of the fee is indeed an appropriate sanction. It is the same thing with the suspension, i.e. the loss of the right to annual regular funding from the state budget or local budget. We believe that this law provides for really every form of violation of the provisions of this law, and for each one an adequate measure or sanctions is laid down. The HSS Club supports the adoption of this law, clearly in this first reading, and I believe that the proposer will take into account all the given, good proposals aimed at improving and improving this law and we expect that the law will result in the transparent financial operations of political parties and independent lists and candidates, and that not only will the order be introduced in this area as such, but that the accounting of political parties and independent lists and candidates will be brought to life as one of the primary conditions of political action in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55673	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, and it is up to the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55674	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When discussing the adoption of every law, the citizens of Croatia expect us to respect the four principles of good law. In this law, where political parties themselves prescribe the rules of the game at one of the most sensitive points of political action, which are finances, we are especially expected to comply with the principle of fair, public, open and transparent. But not to deceive ourselves or the citizens of this country, I don't know which country in Europe has solved the problem of monitoring, collecting, spending, reporting on spent money in any of the campaigns or regular financing of political parties. Should we remind ourselves of numerous affairs in the countries of old Europe when the prime ministers, the world's dignitaries, had to step down because after a few years it was discovered that during the election campaigns and not everything was as great and brilliant as their reputations, not only about their countries, but also in Europe. Only the difference between them and Croatia is that when it was discovered or discovered that there were any irregularities in the financing of the campaign, either parliamentary or judicial investigations were launched, and under public pressure most of them had to resign. Whether it was a member of parliament, a local leader, a president of the state or a prime minister. Of course, this law, as nice as it looks, will not bring us to a fair, public, open and transparent policy financing, political candidates and parties if we do not introduce this strongest criterion in Croatian society, the maximum penalty, the resignation, shift or departure from politics. As far as the text of the law is concerned, given that this is a first reading, I want to believe that the motioner has come to the Assembly to hear useful suggestions, suggestions, warnings that are not good, so I will warn of a very bad provision opening special accounts and that they can be opened on the first day of the calendar year when elections are expected. And what, when the elections are January 5th, January 30th, so early in the year? What about when it's an extraordinary election? This restriction, and when preparing for last parliamentary elections, in order to provoke the State Election Commission, I asked them, from which date can presidential candidates collect donations? The answer has been, since the election day, according to current regulations in Croatia. Why the first day of the calendar year? Why can't someone prepare for parliamentary or any other election for three years? Because that logic and the issue of party financing should be limited from a date. So, the provision on fundraising especially when it comes to and if you insist on a special bill for election promotion, do not attach to calendar dates in the year of elections because you are doing so wrong to those who so far are not on the political stage, who just want to appear, who can neither know nor indicate the possibility of calling early, regular, extraordinary elections, and they always make the decision by ruling when elections will be at any level. And this gives the rulings actually a maneuver to possibly counter the sudden election timing and block their ability to raise money. Second. Limitation of the amount, you've listed all possible restrictions, compensation rights, control and supervision. But you forgot something, that there are local elections in Croatia. The local self-government election. Are they the subject of this law? Is there an electoral promotion for the local elections, whether or not for the city's elections... The fourth local committees shall apply these rules which are laid down in this law or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You left them out of the rules of this law, and I remind you that the most common local and regional self-government local elections are used to run parallels with them and local elections. Therefore, if you have already decided to regulate local, regional and state elections so precisely, please decide for locals or write that the provisions of this law do not apply to local elections. Financial deposit to the candidate president. Does this mean that we are introducing in Croatia a wealth category for the similarity of the candidacy? Now for the presidents, maybe we'll introduce it to the mayors, so for the holders of independent lists or party lists. What's the point of that deposit, why? The message is, only the rich will be able to run. And I'm going to finish this, who to the most extent affects the cost of election promotion, whether themselves candidates or those who conduct election promotion, which is the media. When the State Audit report comes up on the 2009 election cost analysis, then I'm going to talk more about it, now I'm going to give you only three figures. In an analysis of this data done by a citizen reading on the Council's website, the State Audit report calculated the following. The total cost of local elections in 2009, according to the State Audit report, was 157m kuna, so these are one of the most complicated elections with the highest number of candidates, candidate lists, polling stations. Of these 157 million kunas, there were incentives for entrepreneurship and the economy because they were paid for by printers, advertisers, media and other private entrepreneurs who earned these elections. And 53 million kuna ended up in the state budget as VAT or tax on fees received by members of the electoral boards and election commissions because that's what tax is paid, I don't know if you knew. So, of the 157 million costs of local elections in 2009. 17 million ended directly in the economy, and 53 million in the state budget through taxes. So when we talk about the cost of the election, you make sure that in the elections the state makes 1/3 through taxes, and 20 out of 25% of that money ends directly in the economy. Compensation for citizens, members of election boards and election committees is about 40% of the cost of the election. When you show the cost of elections, election promotions and the implementation of elections in the most complicated, and these are local and regional, then we can actually discuss it more equally, more justly and honestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55675	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55676	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague, Lesar, has talked a lot about the financial side of the campaign in terms of control and the restrictions on the resources available to support it. I'd just add another problem that's not actually solved in this first reading. In fact, very rigorous control is being introduced on the revenue side, and we can say a transparent way of financing the campaign. The spending party is also shown by candidates, by the parties and very detailed and precise. However, the latest presidential elections assured us that the expenditure side of the campaign has been falsified in most cases. The income and expenditure sides have a sign of equality, however, if they were to control the expenditure side whether it is correct then they would see that it is absolutely false that the candidates spent as much as it shows. That's why we need to introduce control, rigorous control of the number of videos, minutes, poster numbers, localization and localities on which they were reported and multiplied by the unit price, and then you'll see that Transparency International was right when he said they were...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55677	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55678	Output results as regards exit costs falsified.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55679	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55680	Comrade Hebrang, you have well warned that you should always look at both sides, so income and expenditure. And I'm sure if you'll agree with me, reading this bill and reading it will be regrettable and is it possible that in the official report required by this law, the income side will be less than expenditure and will be considered all legitimate and legal. So what's the point of reporting, surveillance and control? Secondly, the provision from when funds can be collected, until the final day of the campaign, will encourage corruption if you leave those restrictions, because if the state gives itself the right to pay the commitment from the state budget only after two months, why should the two months after the election campaign end not be a deadline within which candidates or parties can still collect donations, unify the criteria of the entry foreign donations and government commitments?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55681	Thank you. And another replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55682	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, you have said that this law is a message that only rich people can run for President of the Republic of Croatia. I think that's the wrong message for you. The candidate for the President of the Republic of Croatia is a serious decision and a serious process. If someone is unable to make 50 thousand kunas for such an important decision, then let them not really run because we are about to flood the candidates. Well, it's not about running for class president in elementary school. It's about running for president of the state. I disagree, I would use the situation to delete Article 18(6) if that deposit were returned to those who failed to collect the signatures or would not even run. They were having a little bit of public fun, so why pay them back? However, Article 23 also prohibits donations to natural and legal persons against whom non-payment proceedings are conducted. And what is the matter with those who owe the state and are not in the process? What about those who are out of date can't handle the procedure anymore? What about those who haven't paid their salaries to employees for years, and they want to court politicians? What hypocrisy it is. We have to stop that, and please consider that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55683	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55684	Dear colleague Maric, I agree with you that the candidacy for the president of the state is an extremely serious matter. So let's do the order and prevent the charlatans from increasing the number of signatures for the candidacy, so instead of this ridiculous little 10,000 we introduce the same criteria as for the referendum, 10% of the electoral body. We will reduce, not by one, by two, by three, but by making the importance of the People's Referendum and the candidacy for the president of the country equal. That's one thing. And secondly, if finances have to be one of the criteria and reasons, okay. But why deposit the state. Why don't you prove that I have that money on the jury account? Why make a deposit to the state? The question is seriousness is insurance and money, but the seriousness of the candidacy is not solved by money but by the number of support from citizens, so let's level the criteria for the head of state and the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55685	And it's an individual, distinguished representative Daniel Srb. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, five minutes of the final honorary representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, this proposal for a law on the financing of political activities and election promotion is something that citizenship and all those who are in parties or outside parties, and they are witnesses, and what I will do when you shout there, and there are various malfeasances in financing political parties and election promotions. [[/Employing Capricorn: Please do not throw away. And calm down. This debate is over.]] Now the microphone's on, sir. He hasn't worked yet. There are many doubts that economic operators, legal entities finance or support certain parties' election campaigns. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. But however it was the State Audit reports or the open newspaper reports about it always ended up with the shaking hills being born mouse or dogs barking caravans passing through. And here we are now ahead of the first reading, is this the proposal for a law on the financing of political parties and election promotions that we think we will better settle this matter compared to all previous legal proposals in this area. Oh, my God! When this legislative proposal is observed, then, in any case, the following should be taken into account, and this is an amendment to the Electoral Law. When we take these two things and these two legislative proposals, then we see that what Mr. Lesar said, that this electoral, proposal for this Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions together with the new Electoral Law, which is also just talk and guessed. There are more options and more drafts in the heads of those who will bring it, it goes to the harm of small parties, so according to the new Electoral Law, it would be said on these small parties' soles and in agreement, and we will see it today and at the vote in agreement of both the HDZ and the SDP. But maybe a lot of bills will get crushed, so that's not how it's gonna be. In any case, both personally and as a HDSSB club, we are for clean bills when financing the work of political parties and for a clean account when financing the electoral promotion. What is interesting is that, or I support what I said about small parties, the right to compensate for the cost of electoral promotion from the state budget, or the local budget for all elections, is proposed to be determined according to the criteria for the results achieved in the elections. Here's what we're actually talking about. So, those who make those who have them give them more, and those who have little and little will be reduced by such a legal proposal. Regardless of these solutions, I hope that you will include in the ministry a number of proposals that have been heard today and because citizenship requires transparency, visibility in the financing of political parties, the work of political parties and election promotions of the HDSSB will be for the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55687	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Dear Paul Matičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55688	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In the end, I would first of all like to thank everyone who took part in the debate on this proposal for a law on the financing of political activity and election promotion and to support this bill. Surely, in the context of this analysis that has been carried out in relation to the application of the laws so far, I would like first of all to say that this analysis has not been carried out ad hoc but has been carried out on the basis of several reports of the State Audit which has been discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, and I think that at the current meeting of the Croatian Parliament you also have one audit report that deals with this issue of election financing. It was also wanted to see from this analysis a total cycle of election processes, meaning the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, local elections and presidential elections, and based on these experiences in some way to see what is possibly good and what is not good, so that, in the context of this debate and based on this analysis and on these discussions today, we will consider all comments and suggestions to get one bill that would certainly be acceptable and in some way transparent, and in terms of further development of democracy and election processes in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55689	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on that point later.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-07-02-0.u55690	And we move on to the proposal for a law on financing political activity and electoral promotion. First reading, P.Z. No. 544. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law on the financing of political activities and election promotions is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal has been adopted by 100 votes for, 5 abstentions and nothing against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue our work and begin with the agenda item we announced on Friday, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 546 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by MP Emil Tomljanovic. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, Mr. Pavle Maticic. Here you go.
