ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46932	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, before you there is a proposal for a Law on the Guarantee Fund for Economic Recovery and Development. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted, at its meeting on 14 January, the frameworks for the development of two models of financing measures for economic recovery and development. So we can call them Colloquial model A and model B. In short let me explain. Therefore, model A would be co-financed by the credit activity of business banks in the Republic of Croatia towards the real sector, according to the economy, while model B would also mean the credit activity of business banks towards the economy, but with the participation of the state in a way that covers one part of the insurance or guarantees for one part of the credit issue. What was the reason and why did the government decide to move like this? So this is how in these given circumstances where we have really one situation where the banking system, above all, is really in a good liquidity situation in terms of financial resources. However, not so willing banks as to place towards the economy for reasons that one variable affects them, among other things, and that is a risk. For this reason, the Government has gone with one too active measure to participate and participate in carrying out one part of the risk, and accordingly this model, namely the proposal of this law, which is actually a prerequisite for the implementation of this so-called ‘proposal’. Model B. According to this law of the state, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, is created after the adoption of the Croatian Parliament. The guarantee fund of 2 billion kuna, as in the text of the draft law, is written on behalf of and on behalf of the State and on behalf of the State, this guarantee fund is given to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So our intention has been since the beginning to use the existing capacity of the institution and we can thus say the already established good practice that exists in the Republic of Croatia in terms of these placements. However, what should be said, so the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the very clear criteria prescribed by this law, and will be even more closely prescribed by individual implementing acts, above all, in terms of a very important segment of the overall implementation of the model, which is what we have said from the beginning and what we have announced that we want to stimulate credit activity that will naturally have repercussion and stimulate investment activity in front of all, i.e. the overall economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, but, of course, by looking first at those basic objectives of creating added value, i.e. preserving and creating new jobs. What we also want to encourage is a kind of competition between business banks in the Republic of Croatia, which will, in fact, have a very transparent competition with one another through a very transparent model, in fact, have a special impact on another objective that the government has put before it, which is that credit activity towards the economy is as favourable as possible. Of course, under the most favourable conditions when I say, we certainly fall first in the price of that capital, i.e. the price of that loan. It is certainly very difficult to define and condition, or determine a certain interest rate. But we believe that this model, as we have imagined it, will be implemented through the contest, or as we called them auctions, where banks will actually apply for a certain part of the quota, will certainly encourage certain competition among them. And competition can, of course, result in an end-user safe and cheaper price. As far as the guarantee fund itself is concerned, the guarantees under this proposal would be issued for a period of 3 to 10 years. The original and primary purpose of the guarantee fund and the complete purpose of the so-called fund. Model B is financing and stimulating investment activities in the Republic of Croatia. However, of course faced with current and circumstances and reality and reality, the government left here in the bill the possibility of, of course, taking advantage of a part of the funds in this model for so-called. We can say so in the short term where and where the demand for this is greater. However, I also believe that you, too, and we have received a lot of calls from the Ministry of Finance and in some way support from entrepreneurs that they are interested in models, certainly and have certain investment projects. In order to start implementing a specific investment project, it is certain that a certain part of the so-called investment project is also needed. crafts. As far as the award criteria are concerned, I think the law clearly states that we simply did not exclude anyone here in the sense that this model and the Guarantee Fund Act itself actually foresees the participation of all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their size, whether small, medium or large, as the larger ones are defined and categorized according to certain criteria. And of course, in some ways I would tell us the idea of leadership and the basic thought that, above all, it stimulates the natural production activity in the Republic of Croatia as I said at the beginning. So one of the main objectives is this production activity that will stimulate, create new added value, and on the other hand, of course, we are very emphasising the labour market segment on creating and preserving existing jobs. We have, of course, implemented in this law the practice of the European Union that says and which very clearly defines the criteria and ways in which these and similar models are handled. We have some international experiences that we have taken into account, of course adapting and giving circumstances to current Croatian opportunities. But it's very clear, so this definition of so-called. It is something that we in Croatia have already defined and actually transposed from the practice of the European Union. You know, you're very clear on the date that the European Union has defined as some kind of so-called. A reference date comparing whether an entrepreneur has experienced difficulties caused by an economic, financial and economic crisis or has been in such difficulties before. This model and this law, or bill of law, that you see, is intended for those entrepreneurs who have come from potential difficulties because of the economic and financial crisis. Also, a very important segment that we have touched here, of course, that entrepreneurs have a certain part of them with certain and unsettled obligations to the state and that is what the business banks have pointed to and for this reason we have actually defined that provision closer. Of course, as regards the implementation of this law itself, so also with this debate before us today and we are working on it, the Government is working very intensively in cooperation with business banks and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and, of course, the Croatian National Bank for Implementation, which is how we can say the implementation of these specific segments of the model itself. First of all, I would say a very technical aspect, which is the model of these auctions, one rule or how the document will be called which will be closer to defining the rules of the game and which will be communicated in time with the business banks because here I have to make very clear how the models are imagined and how they will be implemented means the practical full use of existing instruments, institutions and existing procedures. Therefore, in a specific case, a particular entrepreneur has no reason to go towards the Ministry, the State or the HABOR, but is going, of course, to his business bank or to another business bank. Business banks are the ones applying to auctions and competing with each other for certain amounts, i.e. parts of these so-called parts. guarantee quotas. Here, so much for the opening word. I believe there will be live and debate and a lot of suggestions and comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46933	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46934	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on the guarantee fund for economic recovery and development at the 48th session held on 3 February 2010. In his opening statement, the Croatian Government's representative pointed out that the proposed law is being adopted as one of the measures to overcome difficulties in the economy and that the increase in credit ratings as a proposed funding model will contribute to the growth of the production, employment and competitiveness of Croatian companies. The committee's discussion supports the government's measures towards economic recovery, development and that unanimously. In addition, after the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, he supported the law in question and decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Guarantee Fund for Economic Recovery and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46935	Thank you. Is he still interested in the board? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. MP and Vice-President Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46936	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. By listening to today's opening statement of this law, I could not help thinking that we could begin to discuss this measure that should help the Croatian economy as if the Croatian economy were facing problems in the last 30 days. I also couldn’t help but recall what we talked and talked about about a year and a half ago in this House. I remember that we warned on this side that Croatia had entered the recession period and that this means that the Croatian economy has become a part of it, that it is facing problems, that the state cannot close its eyes before this and that measures must be taken urgently to help the economy solve these problems which would result in a halting of unemployment, loss of jobs, halting at that time extremely large indifference and all other side events that are essentially economic downturn and a new lagging of the economy and the overall social development of the Republic of Croatia. However, the debate at the time focused on the fact that on the one hand we are talking is that Croatia is in recession, and on the other hand that the government resisted, the Ministry of Finance rebelled by using various arguments to prove that it is not true. It reminds me of a patient who's got a fever so he calls doctors, calls the paramedics and the doctors are responding. Please, it's just a fever, there's no point in wasting our efforts and time and we're coming to see what's going on. It's been about 18 months since, and we've had recipes. Doctors from the government show up. And what are they prescribing? They're prescribing Andol. Certainly this measure is necessary and good but it is compared to the problems the Croatian economy faces, those that have gone into some investments and are stopped, those who want to invest because they have good projects nothing but Andol. Without the accompanying reforms, without complete measures that should affect the repair of the overall conditions in which the businessmen operate, this measure will be only a drop in the sea and it is entirely uncertain whether, as a good idea and good intentions, it will give sufficient effects. Unfortunately, I'm afraid the effects will be below the level of funds invested under this law, plus 1 billion per model A, which the secretary of state spoke of. What is needed for colleagues and colleagues to take this measure and some other small measures that have been taken to produce some results? It is necessary, let me repeat, to take what is called structural reforms in Croatian society, most of which must be initiated, designed, implemented and supervised by the Croatian government. We need to ensure that the redistribution of the money that is earned, which is in the state budget is converted into production, that we do not spill from hollow to empty, but that we finally start to encourage and take care of real production. Reforms must be ensured that will turn the import economy into an overly export economy. Those reforms that culture is reluctant to convert into a culture of work must be ensured and implemented, and at least for us in the SDP, it means respect for work, respect for workers, respect for labour legislation, and then there will be conditions for both entrepreneurs and workers to work equally with the heart to do their best and to ensure efficiency in the economy or to contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy without which there will be no improvement. What else does the state have to do? We've also been talking about this for a very long time, but unfortunately, the effects are very small. We're talking about saving public spending, reducing public spending. But what does that mean? Does that mean we're going to make people go to the stock market, does that mean we're going to cut wages in education or health care, does that mean anything else? Of course it doesn't mean the first thing I've listed, on the contrary. All of these people need to be further stimulated because they work hard and bloodyly responsible jobs for almost no pay. Saving in the public sector means something quite different. The state administration needs to be restructured, it needs to see what is excessive, which is ineffective, which is why citizens come to the door of different ministries, different officials, knocking on that door, don't even get an answer that others need to knock on to solve the problem. These are problems where it can be saved, but it still means one serious and rapid reform of the state administration. We've been talking a lot lately about problems in state-owned enterprises, in public enterprises. They're terribly large consumers, they're places where they spend too much of their gross social product, and the results are nothing. We could even say that they create certain harmful effects. You need to start saving there, you need to look up to the responsible employer, you need to get rid of all those waste. They say MOL has reduced the fleet by about a thousand cars since he arrived in INA. Look, when the majority owner was a state, when the state decided a thousand cars were moving somewhere, some officials of senior or lower rank spent money, and that was completely unnecessary. And of course that was reflected in the costs of that company, at the price of the products or services that these companies are doing. And so this applies to all other state-owned companies. And finally what the state is investing in, which is building infrastructure. We need to examine whether the priorities and the construction of this moment are right, whether we are investing in that infrastructure that will contribute tomorrow to the creation of a gross social product, new values or simply build so that someone can take a commission from non-transparent public procurement, from the system of corruption that the government and which we are only fighting at verbal and image level, and in reality we are hardly able to recognise the real shifts that will ensure fairer, more efficient and cost-effective means in the right economic way. What else is there to do? So you need to secure tax discharges. This measure is a drop in the sea. Says the secretary of state that entrepreneurs are very interested and they are, it's true. Those who are a little better guided are very skeptical of how these measures will be implemented and whether they will produce the right results. We will talk about a whole series of possible objections in the very solutions to this law during this debate. There's not enough space for me to deal with details in this opening speech on behalf of the SDP Club. But just listen to the entrepreneurs, they're very skeptical, they're very concerned, they welcome this measure just as much as we do, but they know that there's a danger that the effects of these measures aren't as they should be, given that they're spending 3 billion. I said, tax discharge. That's what entrepreneurs are talking about, that's what we've been talking about from the SDP club for years, that's what's not sitting on fertile soil in the Croatian government, exactly the opposite. Croatia's government has introduced a new tax in the past year, the Croatian government has increased the VAT rate. From the promise to cut taxes, we have come in practice to introduce haraks, introduce a crisis tax and increase VAT rates. It certainly reduced consumption and further made it more difficult for the business conditions of our economy and to create new values, and unfortunately what hurts us most in the SDP club, this situation has reduced production and reduced employment. Look at some statistics, and unfortunately you'll see that we're almost back in '99. A year, ten years. Where we were, nowhere, what we were doing, nothing. The number of unemployed has already crossed 300 grand. '99. There were 320 plus 150 thousand completely false employees in companies that were mature for bankruptcy and who eventually ended up in bankruptcy. Individence is far greater than it was in '99, internal debt is greater than it was in '99, but what's different about '99.? At that time, we were in charge of less than 10 billion euros, and today we are in charge of 43 billion euros. How much is it on every Croat's head? How many years will our children have to repay those debts? It's very serious. The crisis tax is about 200, 300, 350, 700, 1000 kuna each month for each employee of his salary. Let's try to turn it a little bit into something concrete. If you're talking about a monthly withdrawal of 300, 350 kuna, it's about 50 kg of bread per month per employee, 30 l of oil, 30 kg of cheese, 60 kg of flour. Try to convert it to about less than a million employees in the economy or to a million and some employees in total, so you will see how reduced the power of consumption is, that is, demand that directly affects the situation in the economy. And in the end, let me get back to you. It's urgent to help the doctors. Dearly beloved, Andol will be given to the economy today. But come on, act like real responsible doctors. Let's see what's the real diagnosis, what's causing this condition, the disease, or the patient, to see what can be treated on prescription medicines, and what needs to be removed by surgical means, surgery. Let's not let a patient who has passed fever from normal temperature into a coma end up on resuscitation machines. I don't think there's any time for that anymore, I think you have to objectively assess and adopt objective measures and objective support for everyone in this country, both economics and workers, including political support. But for measures that will only be a blur of the eyes, which will only be a delay of the inevitable, so you will not get our consent. You will receive consent to this law and to this measure. But you will also receive harsh demands and strong criticism if you do not get to grips with those problems and do not seek solutions that can truly change the situation in the Croatian economy, increase employment, increase gross social product and ensure a decent life for all citizens in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46937	Thank you. We have two corrections. She's the first female representative, Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46938	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's Mrs. Antunovic saying what is the incorrect assumption that this measure is just a drop in the sea. This is incorrect because the guarantee fund will contribute to economic recovery, to preserve existing jobs, and also to create new jobs. It will also increase investment, and a part will be used for trade funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46939	Correction Mr. Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46940	So, I'm going to, I'm going to point out the quote of my colleague Antunovic who said that these measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are Andol. So, I'll mostly keep the medical part of your discussion very inspired, so let me put it this way. I think it's actually a cancer that started in America and released metastases all over the world. We're part of that world anyway, I think you agree with that, and of course the metastasy has come to ours. In other words, this procedure by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not Andol, even though I think it is an exceptional millennium acetyl salicylic acid medicine that often solves major problems, if it is only a high temperature, virosis and something like that, but I think it is a quality procedure in an economy that will in any case improve our economic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46941	Thank you. Usually the truth is somewhere in the middle, it's not cancer, it's Andol, it's somewhere in between. Next up, club IDS, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46942	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. We all agree that we need to help the Croatian economy, we all agree that we need to help the poor, help craftsmen, help pensioners, tourism, young people, those. Absolutely. However, what is the fundamental question where are we today in 2010? A little while ago, a colleague said we exceeded the number of 300,000 unemployed. Half of that figure will certainly never be employed in Croatia. We record a decrease in consumption, we record a fall in wages. I claim that in five years the real salary that today is 5300 kuna will be far, far below 3000 kuna. The external debt for five years with these 42.5 billion kunas will exceed 60 billion kuna. That's about 80, 90 billion dollars in today's course. We have a growth in non-payment loans, a drop in exports, a decline in tourism income last year by 15% or almost 1 billion euros, a drop in industrial production, the housing stopped. We're not going to do anything in this country, so it's going to fall even more. We have from day to day which is logically greater spending of the state and now what we do. I have here in front of me this guarantee fund law for economic recovery and development. Understandably, everyone will greet him. On the other hand, we have a proposal to reduce the parafiscal burdens, to reduce the rebalance of the state budget, to reduce the crisis tax, to reduce VAT, to cut parafiscal burdens, to reduce subsidies to losers and to shift them to perspective export production activities, to finally define model aid for construction, to companies that have been in difficulty for years, to choose public firms in public tenders, which again is not a guarantee, because we see what happens in Podrava, to define the model of aid to exporters, to strengthen economic diplomacy, etc. etc. That's what they're proposing to the economy. It's easy to say, it's harder to do in the end. It is certain that one of the current measures is, for example, the short-term aid to the economy, this possible guarantee fund. He's difficult to see article 12. 2 billion kuna. Some say that in an ideal scenario, it can be counted on 16 billion kunas. If that's gonna happen, I don't believe it. In an ideal scenario, that could happen. It'll only show time. However, when we talk about this guarantee fund, the issue of all issues is who will come to the credit in this country. I say it'll be big houses. Why? Well, first of all, as this law allows them to reprogram existing far more unfavourable loans. That's the point. For the first time, it will be possible to use one legal text to borrow a loan from a business bank so that it can reprogram the existing one. Today in the country we have somewhere between 6.7% of the billable loans. With this CNB guarantee fund, it may be too harsh to say, and the state along with it, among other things, is saving foreign banks. Clearly, they will be able to save both part of the Croatian economy and collect part of the claim. We have, say, this CNB data where according to the aggregated statistical report of the CNB last year's net profit of banks was 3.4 billion kuna, which is one quarter less than or 25.4% to be precise than a year before. As a result of the increase in bad loans, and thus potential bank losses, they had to allocate as much as 3.4 billion kuna for the reservation, which is 3 times more than a year earlier. That is also the main reason for last year's profit cuts. Some banks went a little better, others a little worse, but now I'm not gonna talk about theirs still, their big profits. But I would dare say that in this country, even so far was not the main problem of how to obtain credit. In Croatia, there is a far greater problem with the production of the loan. In Croatia, the problem is how to perform the product. There are few companies in Croatia such as one "Cimos" from Buzet, "Uljanika", I don't know "Munje", "Concar", "TDR", etc., which can be successfully positioned on the world market. And the one who thinks that from today to tomorrow our economy, no matter what we do, can be significantly more exportable than it is today. We need to create this product, we need to find a buyer, we need to place it, we need to collect it clearly, and it's not going from today to tomorrow. However, however, the goal is that if the state spins at least 6 billion kunas in the end, and that of those 6 billion kunas is incometing at least 2, maybe 3 billion kunas on the basis of unpaid taxes, and existing taxes to reduce some of these blockades, etc., to Croatian companies. I ask myself, however, would it be better for all Croatian entrepreneurs to extend interest payments in, say, two years? How do you say in 2010, 2011 companies only pay the principal, and interest to them when they run out, say, those loans in 2, 3 or 5 years? I think that all of it, or that the entire economy would sort of be disbursed, and this way I'm afraid that these loans that will ultimately not be so favourable if they get a 5% to 7% interest, will only come in favour. I don't know, let's say for ourselves that one model they used in Italy, let's say, we won't admit it would be better, but I think it would be better because this big is going to come up to 50, 60 million kuna credits, these are your upper limits, and the kid's afraid it won't come to anything. I say once again that the problem in this country has not been in credit, although the banks normally had a daughter of our economy with interest rates of 9, 10, 11, 12%. The problem, I repeat, is in Croatian products. During November 2009, I quote: "business banks have intensified credit activity in Croatia.", the clear money was most likely headed towards state-owned companies i.e. A non-citizen state has been financed, but the point is that bank placement towards the non-banking sector has increased by 3.5 billion kuna to as much as 231.4 billion kuna at the end of November. Now you can see what we did when we sold the state-owned banks. What does that mean? For the third time, there's money, but the programs and products in this country are gone and we need to look ourselves in the eye and admit that I'm right. In order not only for the selected to receive the loan, it would be better to deprive, for example, all Croatian companies, small, large and similar interest in 2010, in 2011. What's also the point, is that it's constantly revealed to whom these loans go. Although any approved acquisition and that's the problem in this country, it could be interpreted and some scandal could stand behind it and everything could fall into the water before it starts to apply, but God forbid something starts from a dead spot and this law even though it's not going to be much use at all, but the little ones certainly will. Why? It takes time, in three, four months. I think my predecessor talked about it, too, and we're gonna get to the bottom of it, and we might get to it when it comes to unemployment number 330, maybe thousands of people at the Employment Office. Almost 30 billion kuna will be our indifference internally. I'm afraid of social shocks, etc., etc. On the other hand, media screenings or apparitions will not be enough if we continue to continue to be economical. I'm talking to the builders two and three days ago in Buzet, it was a case, with the builders from Imotsky. They're asking God to come back to them, "Bechtel." 1 km of road was then 4.7m euros, today it is 17m euros, and Croatian builders then worked 1 cubic meter of redemption at 26 kuna, today working 24 kunas. And in the game is the Croatian consortium. How? Turns out only strangers in this country pay. "BUI", "Bechtel" etc. What does that mean? That Croatian companies don't get money from their customers. It's "Hak", it's "Croatian Roads" etc. And why am I saying that? Because he's here in art. 10 guarantees under this law shall not be granted to credit users if the creditor does not have a regulated debt to the State. And what if that same state, Mr. Secretary of State, is, say, via Haak or Croatian Roads, one or two years, it hasn't paid off that subcontractor, co-operant and so on. How is this man going to get a loan now? He's asking for 2 million kuna, and the state owes him 3.4, or 5 million kuna. It's clear that I want every happiness to this fund, but I can see that, and I'm afraid that the money will go big, privileged, maybe to those who are close to the government, and the problem once again is not that much money, it's not credit, it's paying the state. The state should fulfil its obligations. Finally, if the state owes Mark a million kuna, and he has an outstanding obligation to the tax administration of a million kuna, then let it be beaten once, and not to simply block that taxpayer and make him bankrupt to sell out everything that he and his family have created for generations. The problem in this country is business, over-indebtedness, we no longer have relevant investments, in this country there is an anti-enterprise climate, we absolutely won't do anything. I was in Padua two days ago, talking to the Veneto people there, saying no one's gonna work with you, all work is fear after all that's been going on in this country. And they say maybe it's good because in two years we'll buy far cheaper, or you'll sell yourself far cheaper. All in all, I want everyone well to this Fund, but I'm also skeptical of it, these criteria from the Fund, and the highest criticism is higher than this Law which has no clear criteria for the award of money. How money will be allocated, to whom money will be allocated, and who will simply follow it. And I'm afraid such a single fund is more helpful to business banks than I told our businesses, but absolutely that fund should be supported. By this law as regulated, the loan can be obtained by anyone and no one is transparent enough and there are no clear criteria that every entrepreneur knows in advance whether he has a chance, whether he has no chance of being better than the one who gets the loan, whether it will be abolished and should in some way rule it out and in some additional way prescribe it. We will clearly refer to banks, the state has not granted loans, it has granted loans to a business bank, we will call for their transparency but I am not sure that it should only be trusted to banks, because the banks will always be able to control the bank's secret and ultimately no one in this country will be able to control them anymore. I heard on a committee yesterday that these criteria should be regulated by a government regulation. So, the government that says there will be no policy to grant this loan, on the other hand, will set criteria and everything else so that the policies will certainly be, and the measure of all measures if we would like to help the Croatian economy is to extend the payment of VAT from 30 days to 60 days, and when imports from those 8 days to at least 30 or 60 days. It would be 30 days earlier and the state would start paying off and paying off its liabilities, because it can't be that if the HAK or Croatian roads owe one craftsman a million kuna, and this tax which governs a million kuna to be blocked by the tax administration, to push him into bankruptcy, to sell him property and he, on the other hand, from the state or through the state, is asking for as much money. All in all, and the IDS Club will support this Fund, we wish it any luck but wish the criteria were clearer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46943	Thank you. First, Mr. Davor Huška's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46944	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to make two out of a whole series of incorrect allegations from my colleague Cain. First, he said only privileged companies, or those close to the authorities, will be able to benefit from this loan programme. The criteria that companies can use are precisely developed, i.e. the guarantee fund under this programme. Furthermore, counterpart Cain said he heard in Padua, that the Italians probably said that no one would work with us. Here's an example from the field that it's not true, in Pakrac in the economic zone where I come from Italian companies are working more and more with local entrepreneurs, and it's proof that they're going to build another plant this spring, and as far as I know, there's more and more in all of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46945	Mrs. Neda Klaric's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46946	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a colleague, he says incorrectly that this is a short-term guarantee fund, which is incorrect because this guarantee fund provides for a minimum loan of 3 years and a maximum period of 10 years with clearly established criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46947	Correction Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46948	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to correct the inaccuracy of fellow Caine who claimed that again it was a matter of some political criteria that would only be given to companies that are close to politics, namely, what exactly adorns this bill and this guarantee fund is that the adoption of sublegal acts so after the adoption of this Law, politics is absolutely coming out of the whole story. Everything remains later at the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and on banks that again enter the story of the Guarantee Fund through public bidding. Therefore, I think this is exactly one example of where policies will not be and where criteria are clearly developed in Articles 8, 9 and 10, so companies that can participate in this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46949	Thank you. There is one announcement, the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Petar Selem scheduled a session today at 13:30 in the hall "Stepan Radic" 133/1. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46950	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The guarantee fund is, of course, state interventionism and, if by definition, it can be short-term, so as a measure and a fire department and it can only be short-term, because I hope that we are not committed to the long term for state interventionism, but we have come to a situation that is difficult where companies fail every day and where it should somehow stop and to those who can survive give some chance to survive and that is the idea of a guarantee fund. Last year, the HNS, in its second part of last year, presented its concept of a guarantee fund on which this idea is based and which, however, is somewhat different from what is proposed here today. So, the situation where we are at this point is the decline in GDP of 6%. In 2009, every 9 people employed in the economy lost their jobs, 86 thousand are fictitiously employed, or are employed and not paid, and the liquidity is at the highest level of $99.26 billion just for comparison to say, in the financial envelope for 2012 and 2013. 26.5 billion kuna is exactly how much Croatia is expected to make available to Croatia, so it is not guaranteed that it is, for example, virtual money so that we can withdraw if we are able to formulate projects that go beyond the criteria of the European fund selection, so that the total amount of money from the European budget would theoretically be drawn from the European budget. No need to be fooled, the way this guarantee fund will function is also the preparation and test for the use of the European funds ahead of us. And if we're able to repeat this, an absolute short-term measure and I don't think it's worth talking about if it's not a short-term measure, so if it's not a measure we're using just now to get the economy on its feet and we can get the state out of the economy, so we don't have state interventionism. So if this test shows that we are not able to operate according to the criteria that the notes are not prescribed in this law, just to warn, it is only said that they will be subsequently prescribed. So, if it turns out that we are unable to function by writing down the criteria that we are actually sticking to, which are objective, which have no already contained elements of favoring political friends and discriminating political enemies, then the fund project will fail, but we will accumulate an even bigger problem on our heads, which is that we will be extremely suspicious and in a bad position about the possibility of withdrawing funds from European funds. Because the basic mechanism in this guarantee fund is the same as the idea of withdrawing funds from guarantee funds. So this is not just a question of these two, or possibly three billion, it is a question and 26.5 billion in 2012, and then all the funds and how we will enter the European financial perspective or the European budget from 2014 to 2021. So much more important for the economy than perhaps a short-term measure might seem at first sight. The assumption of the functioning of the Croatian economy, of course, cannot be secured by this guarantee fund. The first assumption is that the state is starting to pay its debts. So as long as there's this kind of indifference that's primarily caused by the fact that the state doesn't pay its debts, then we won't get on our feet and we won't give the economy a chance to get on its feet. In the procedure, the HNS Club submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act, which introduces the principle that public procurement can control the problem of payments, i.e. non-payment of the State, where further public procurement would not be granted until debts from previous public procurement have been settled by the State. This is the first measure to be respected or to be introduced whether through public procurement or through the Public Procurement Act or by some other law, of course it can be discussed, but certainly the first measure must be to start the state paying its debts and thus end the deadly indifference chain in which companies enter. At this point, this kind of intervention is certainly necessary. This is nothing to be especially happy about, for we should not have been in this situation. And the fact that we're in this situation means we have a big problem. But since we already have this big problem, let's try to solve it at least in 2010 which is expected to be a tough year, and it's obviously going to be a tough year. 'Let's try to solve it this way for companies that have the potential to survive, and victims are crisis victims to allow some space. And that's what we think in HNS, the idea of this guarantee fund to survive this difficult period. As far as the proposal ahead of us is concerned, we think it might be wiser, that, in accordance with at least some of the core strategic definitions of HBOR, it is the first filter for projects. Therefore, the HBOR works to select projects and then offers these projects to banks, and by estimating the risk, banks then also determine the rate of interest, i.e. determine the amount of interest. In this way, projects themselves can be directed and coordinated to at least some extent with strategic objectives if they exist in parentheses, the development of the Croatian economy. The other thing that I think is necessary here is to define or limit the size of the companies to which these funds are being placed. This kind of asset cannot and will not be effective, if it is placed without that criterion, because of course there is a real danger that several of the largest, two, three largest eat all the funds. Therefore, the whole idea of the guarantee fund is to revive what is the actual structure, the fact life of the Croatian economy, and therefore should be limited to small and medium-sized enterprises, so the company does not cross 400 employees and 400 million kunas of total income. In this way we avoid the danger that some colleagues and colleagues have already spoken of, that these funds go to one or two, and at most three addresses, and that way we actually throw them into the wind. This guarantee fund can and since at this point we have nothing else and we do not need to be the basis for training people who will later work and prepare projects that are not so far away, which are only a year and a half from today is a moment, or a little more than a year and a half, so in early 2012, when we will have to realize them. This must be a basis for training people who will prepare Croatian projects for the 26.5 billion kuna that can potentially be withdrawn from European funds. It is therefore important that in the realization of this idea, this law defines the criteria, how people who will practically evaluate these projects are trained and educated, and propose them to finance banks. The banks will, of course, assess the level of risk. If in this situation it happens to us, and it exists, as in all situations so far, when it was impossible to do so, but it was actually done. If we happen to have these funds allocated by party, friendly, cousin, click, clienteleistic or any other basis similar to that of, for example, the decentralisation of the allocation of funds to local self-government units. If that happens, know that you have not only ruined this guarantee fund and this idea of the guarantee fund and this 2 and 3 billion kuna respectively, you have damaged the Croatian economy much longer, that you have ruined most probably more than 26.5 billion kuna of European funds and that you have ruined the Croatian position in the financial perspective and in the European budget since 2014. As far as the HNS is concerned, we will support this proposal, we will very closely monitor the realization and speak very publicly about what is happening on all occasions and at all levels because we will not allow the possible political implementation of this idea to cause Croatia to suffer on a long deadline financially and make it impossible for it to use what is unfortunately not yet equipped to use both human or institutionally, but we hope that we will succeed in the next year and a half or two years. This fund and this idea should be one basis for the formation and capacity of organisational and human resources to prepare for the use of European funds. And any attempt to set up here as x times so far and that is why we are partly in this situation that instead of objectively using political criteria in the allocation of funds will cost us a lot more. It's as much in HNS' power as our main power right now is a public word but believe me there's a pretty big impact we're going to prevent. Therefore, we support the Guarantee Fund, we follow very closely how it is realised and what criteria are set and how the funds are allocated and we absolutely support it as a short-term measure and not as permanent state interventionism. Because if it turns into a permanent state intervention, then this idea is gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46951	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46952	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I will correct my colleague Pusic, who said that the guarantee fund is a short-term measure of the state. However, in view of the conditions set out in Article 8, which states that loans will be granted for a period of 3 to 10 years, this also does not enter into the category of short-term debt of guarantees rather than long-term loans. And Article 9 also tells us that the nominal amount of the guarantee will be reduced in proportion to the principal of the loan. So, for the entire duration of the loan, there will be a guarantee that will be reduced to 10 years means within the framework of the loan agreement. You also said that so far we have not been successful in withdrawing funds from pre-accession funds. That's not true. More than 80% of pre-accession funds have been withdrawn, institutionally equipped and trained, and I believe that all institutions will be ready for the funds coming in 2012 and 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46953	Thank you. Correction Mr. Kruno Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46954	Thank you. Well, here's the thing. I've got to fix a colleague who claims that if the next purchase only went after here's the previous purchase payment. First of all, there would be a general stasis, especially a stop to hospital work and so forth. But when he mentions the HNS club, I have to say how it was. 2001. Koning has been given the job of 7 million kuna reconstruction since then, Minister Radiir Cacic. After that goes 7 annexes. In the third annex, Coning becomes a creditor of the state. So the state called the competition, she had no right, she couldn't pay. In the 5th annex, he gets over 7 million without a new competition for another 10 million jobs. In the 7th annex and that 10 million Coning becomes a government lender. Thanks for the recipe.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46955	Thank you. We have a breach of our rules of procedure, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46956	So in 209 and there are also some articles of common sense that are injured here but in Rules of Procedure 209. There was no correction of an incorrect quote. You can't deny this idea of a guarantee fund by a colleague, Markovanovic, even you, with your marifettelus, can't really deny it as a good one. It's coming from us. The only problem is implementation. Implementation by policy criteria is your specialty and in this case we will not allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46957	The lady insisted on monitoring, constant surveillance. Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46958	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is impossible to discuss any law, any measure relating to the economy, and not to start a topic and debate on the major financial crisis, the fall in economic activity and the fall in economic activity, both worldwide and in the Republic of Croatia. Why is that impossible? It is simply not that, if the macroeconomic environment were stable, positive movements and stable movements were macroeconomic then they would not be necessary for these measures. But unfortunately, the difficulties in the economy are so pronounced that they slow down even general social progress. They introduced depression into the social environment, and they introduced uncertainty, uncertainty, and eliminated the most important factor of entrepreneurship, enthusiasm. Such consequences are also logical given only a few data. For example, here in the Republic of Croatia GDP drop 4.7% in the third quarter of last year at 5.2%, in the vicinity nearest Hungary 6.9, Finland 7.9, Slovenia 8.8, Lithuania 15.6, Estonia 15.7 and even 18.4 in Latvia. The average GDP decline in the European Union is 4.7 and the only country that, thanks to its expansion monetary policy, has maintained an economic growth of 1.3% in Poland in the European Union. No wonder then there was a fall in the Republic of Croatia of goods exports by 21% or 2 billion euros in the nominal amount of imports by 26% or 5.3 billion euros in nominal amount. And also due to the interconnectivity of GDP and the increase in unemployment, there has been an increase in unemployment, although significantly higher than this causes for the economic legality of GDP. There were 51 thousand more unemployed on 31.12.2009 compared to the previous year, and unemployment increased by 21.2%. And on all economic occasions, and especially in this economic policy, it is the tendency of policymakers to encourage and promote those measures and those phenomena that are socially desirable, and to suppress those that are socially undesirable. The government has already adopted several measures directly affecting the stability of the banking system, which is a priority in all stages of the economic cycle. Immediately at the beginning of the crisis, the amount of insurance savings from 100 000 to 400 thousand kuna was increased, which also increased the amount of insured deposits of citizens from 60 billion kuna to 113 billion kuna, while at the same time reduced the mandatory premium rate that banks deprive from the State Deposit Insurance Agency from 0.5% to 0.42% and then to 0.32%. With these direct measures and other measures, the government directly saved the Croatian banking system, the circulation of the Croatian economy, but thus saved the banks and their shareholders. But in the banking market, there was one market failure, one economic defect. At the same time, there was a reduction in the credit activity of business banks due to the reduction of credit ratings to the economy, as well as a reduction in credit ratings to entrepreneurs and the population. At the same time, demand is constantly insatiable and does not depend either on the price of capital or on the supply of capital. She grew up and constant. But at the same time, the banking system was never more liquid. It is an economic paradox that best confirms that in the 12th month of last year, unpaid claims in banks rose to 30 days by 1.1 billion kuna, and that unpaid claims from 31 days to 90 days increased by as much as 8 billion kuna and despite that, the banks saw a surplus liquid potential of 4 billion kuna and 1 billion euros. And at the same time the credit rating is dropping and, of course, in such a situation, in such a single bank market defect, they are looking for an opportunity to place the funds, but to share the risk. And yet one of the most important roles of the state is to correct the market defects of the state propose this law on the guarantee fund for economic recovery and development that the HDZ club absolutely supports, as this law will become the most effective and effective basis, the framework for economic recovery after adoption. With this bill, the Republic of Croatia takes over the coverage of part of the risk of new credit ratings of 2 billion kuna, but with the guarantee amount not exceeding 50% of the principal loan. It is a good legal framework for Article 8 which determines that guarantees can only be granted for loans intended to finance the completion of existing investments, to finance new investments, to trade assets and to reprogramme loans concluded after 1 July 2008. But it seems to me that we should also consider installing the possibility here in the article and from credit ratings, given that the state is also in debt, to find a way and model as part of these credit ratings and to pay off debt to the state, but partly. Well, in that sense, I've submitted one amendment, so I'd like you to consider it. It is necessary to highlight the provisions of Article 10 which provide that guarantees cannot be obtained by creditors for the purchase of a business share or for the purchase of shares or for the payment of loans used earlier for the purchase of shares for those purposes and those which do not have a regulated debt to the State. Given the somewhat vague and undefined term of "determined debt to the state", I have also submitted an amendment that clearly regulates that part, so here I would like to ask that too be considered. This proposed model certainly enables entrepreneurs to come easier to credit with business banks, but the Republic of Croatia seeks to encourage business banks to be willing to borrow and with expectations of lower interest rates. However, it should be noted that so far business banks have fallen very often on the test of professionalism in relation to entrepreneurs and citizens, but have also fallen to the test of social responsibility. The most difficult times of their own free will and unilaterally changed the rate of interest rates to already approved loans, introduced new additional burdensome charges, reduced new credit rates, and increased interest rates to unacceptable levels. During the most difficult times, changing housing policies have also given rise to the difficult situation of housing, which has a very large share in the overall Croatian economy. However, the proposal of the Bank Guarantee Fund Act in the Republic of Croatia now gives them a new big and unrepeated chance. If the largest banks do not agree on the conditions of running, and as they used to do in the Croatian banking market, if they prevent abuse and non-intentional payment from credit placements, if they do not make maximum use of the guarantee offered, if they contract fixed interest rather than variable or fixed in relation to the variable euro library or the like. If interest rates are stimulating and acceptable at the level of the European environment, if they are not privileged to grant credit, especially if it is not granted exclusively to large companies and influential companies. If credit payments are not used for the payment of their claims or for the payment of claims of other banks or for the payment of claims by companies in which they are owners or companies in which they have an economic interest. If they give priority to production and export, if they worry about regional equilibration, if they do not end up as loans to other companies, to other legal or physical persons, and if they do not end up in investment funds or investment fund-owned companies, then they will surely get a consensus that banks have passed a social responsibility test, and they can also achieve their primary objective of profit-making, but in one reasonable amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46959	Thank you. At 10.46, it was time to report 10 minutes on this agenda item. Now, Mr. Secretary of State Mr. Zdravko Maric will come forward before we move to an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46960	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few words for me before we move on to an individual debate. I think we've had some really good suggestions and comments on behalf of the clubs, so let me look back at some of them. I'll start with a very important one I'd say variable in any kind of business decision, so I'd say daily decision-making, and that's a "timed" measure, something we heard at the very beginning of the debate. We, too, would have loved and wished there were opportunities and space before, but unfortunately the answer to that question is very clear. It just wasn't possible. I will only remind you with several and numerical indicators of the circumstances that have occurred in our country as well as our economy but also beyond. 11 months ago overnight, the interest rate on overnight shelling and bank lending on the interbank market was over 30%. It's a very clear signal of what the level of liquidity in the system was 11 months ago. Today, at this point, the bank over, the amount of over 4 billion kuna is held in the account of the Croatian National Bank at 0.5%. I think it's a very clear indication that circumstances have changed significantly. Now someone can ask themselves, is it possible that something could happen on its own or overnight? There, too, should be a very clear answer. All the measures that we took first of all from the Government and, of course, the Croatian National Bank have led to this. First of all, what we were constantly stressing was the necessity of retaining that financial stability and overall macro-economic stability. So we have created the preconditions and conditions that we can implement the funding models that we propose. I must also remind you that the Republic of Croatia is very clear and the government has decided very clearly at the outset that it will not enter into a stand-by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, that we have also not received any assistance in terms of some of the assistance received by members of the European Union, or the European Monetary Union, euro area from the European Central Bank. So we've only created these preconditions with our capacities and our reserves that we've built over the past few years. And just the same thing to say. Therefore, not only for the implementation of these measures, but you should also say that you have heard very clearly and heard the message from both the Prime Minister and the Vice-President for the Economy, and of course also from the Governor of the Croatian National Bank that there is an additional space for the release of additional liquidity. Of course, the same very important question is raised, which is the absorption power and ability of the entire economy. That is why we have decided on measures like this that will make the building effects positive for the overall economy. As for the amount of modeling very briefly, let me just say and explain a few things. So this bill states that a guarantee fund of two billion kunas is to be set up. The state guarantees individual placement up to 50%, which means I'll say theoretically, but let's say better practically, that means it's created assuming that the total guarantee fund is used to create a credit potential just by this 4 billion kuna model. However, what I said and in the opening statement, we seek to create competition through auctions between banks that will apply and compete with each other and for the amounts of these guarantees quotas. One of the basic criteria will be the amount that the bank is willing to participate in. Of course, the more willing the bank is to participate in the risk, or the smaller the share of the state, the more acceptable it will be. So if we take that maybe we can very simply assume that in real terms that amount will range from 25% to 50%. So we can even talk about the credit potential of this model even up to 8 billion kuna. As far as the criteria are concerned, I think you've opened a good topic here on a good, good subject. I'm sure it's very important. I think you see it in the law itself, and I also said it in the introduction that we have very clearly defined the basic, basic criteria. It should also be said that the material already adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be further clarified through some other acts that some of these criteria will be more defined. But none of these criteria will be created and will not be defined in a way that is done without any analysis. We have worked with both banks and the CNB, and indeed our goal is for most entrepreneurs, i.e. businesses, to be available to them. What we have heard at the end of the day, of course, is that it is extremely important to prevent, that it is counterproductive, and to remove some possibility of a bank arrangement. But I will repeat what the Prime Minister and vice president of the economy have said, our goal is to remove this model first of all, and I think it is clear, as they said, the political umbrella. So, the government, with the approval of individual placements, really has nothing. Entrepreneurs, I repeat once again, go to business banks, but it's also of interest to remove that so-called. A business umbrella where banks could possibly come into this situation to negotiate with each other. I repeat, the cleanest and best way to make such a thing happen is by auctions, that is, the system of these public competitions. As far as these few specific things are concerned, let me just say, so this notice regarding HBOR is relevant, we took it into account at the beginning. However, we must be aware of the current HBOR capacities. HBOR is doing a really good job, but they are in Zagreb, only in Zagreb centralised. 40 people who work there very high quality their work on credit and innuendo analyses although entrepreneurs would first go towards the HBOR first question, i.e. the first problem is actually that in this way HBOR would become able to say the bottleneck. For this reason, we have decided that entrepreneurs are going towards banks, therefore standard procedures, but ultimately approval and final verification of the authorisation of the plasma will be given by HBOR, which, of course, works on behalf of and on behalf of the state. And, of course, as regards what the esteemed representative Pusic said for sure that we can agree that this model, i.e. these funding models, is one very good adjustment and prepares all of us for the system of use, of course, an even better system of using structural and cohesion funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46961	Thank you. There's another announcement. The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mrs Dragica Zgrebec, scheduled a session for today 04 February at 14:00 at Janka Draškovića Hall, 2nd Floor, 202. We're moving on to an individual debate. First Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46962	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, surely the guarantee fund is a rescue for many entrepreneurs. I would even dare say that this guarantee fund is artificial breathing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia gives the economy for faster recovery and growth of production. The State is actively involved with measures that will help entrepreneurs to obtain more favourable loans. Funds to boost the liquidity of its companies, but thus the total liquidity of the state. Unfortunately, there has been a lot of talk here in the introduction of problems in which Croatia is so that 83% of industrial enterprises are affected by the consequences of the global crisis through the loss of the market. The biggest victims of the economic crisis are the processing industry which certainly plays an important role in the structure of the economy, and there is construction and trade. During the cancellation of the Labour Treaty, the most injured workers were employed for a certain period of time. Workers employed at a certain time in 2009 alone lost 98 thousand 343 Labour Contracts and, in any case, it is a very significant figure. In addition to unemployment in the last year, indifference has increased significantly by nearly 7 billion. 4 activities dominate the structure of outstanding liabilities up to 60 days. This is the first processing activity with a share of about 30.8%, so real estate business with a 21.1% stake, 19.8% share and construction with a share of 10.17%. A particular problem is public undertakings paying their obligations at least 8 or 10 months. with a delay. That's why I believe the funds will be. This guarantee fund helps many entrepreneurs to make better liquidity and mutual payment that would normally contribute to a 25, 26-billion-dollar indifference as much as is now mentioned. The guarantee fund will primarily be of great benefit to the processing and construction industry. It will help many entrepreneurs to create new jobs, and I believe that it will help them break up with this bad practice, which is the practice of non-payment of salaries because unfortunately somewhere in Croatia now we have 70,000 workers working and not receiving pay. That is why I support the adoption of this Law on the Guarantee Fund for Economic Development and Recovery, because I would dare say that it is waiting for many entrepreneurs as well as a good part of companies because we must not forget the fact that out of 134,000 registered companies more than 16% are companies that are candidates for bankruptcy. And also part of the workers expect to save their jobs through the rescue of the companies, and not to say how much they expect the unemployed at the Employment Service where the figure has exceeded 291 thousand, waiting for new jobs to be opened through those funds, so they expect their job savings. All in all, I have to say, we all expect a lot from that guarantee fund. That's why he's worth the attention, and he needs to be supported. But since the Secretary of State is here, I'd like you to have two ideas that the unions have asked me to present to you, so if there's room for the amendments, you can still see it today. We also discussed this in the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, which is two proposals where they say the advantage for the guarantee that entrepreneurs would get has been projects that offer to retain existing employment or create opportunities to create new jobs. This is one proposal, the second proposal is to add the same thing in Article 10 where guarantees are not given to users, where it is defined which users are not given guarantees, if they have a debt to workers, or if they violate workers' rights. In fact, what was to be achieved? So they wanted to understand those employers who do not respect the basic standards of workers, not pay salaries that they can not only now under this guarantee fund, but also in the future expect one rule of no help if they do not, in fact, respect those basic regulations that should be respected for their employees. So, please, if you can see if these two proposals, I can give them to you, I can sort of get in the form of amendments until the new bill is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46963	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46964	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since the second half of 2008, the whole world, including the Republic of Croatia, has hit a major financial crisis. The government has taken a number of measures that have affected the reduction of budget spending. It also appeared on the revenue side in order not to increase social differences or to preserve the level of pensions and social contributions from the budget. She tried to keep the level of support going towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurship as well as the level of support that we had the opportunity to see through the proposals of the national budget for 2009 and 2010. We can be satisfied with the efforts the government has made with the prime minister to control public finances so far. The work on economic recovery programmes has been continued and has now resulted in a proposal for this Law that is before us. It is important that this Act introduces model B financing measures for economic recovery and development to look at model A, which is co-financed directly by the HBOR. The funding model introduced by this State Act takes over part of the risk of new credit ratings from banks through the Guarantee Fund. The guarantees are given and it is important to repeat this once again for loans co-financed by new investments, or to complete the start-ups and crafts and reprogramme loans agreed after 1 July 2008. The model B of the guarantee proposed by law and model A of direct credit co-financing will increase the availability of financial resources to entrepreneurs. The participation and cooperation of all and not putting into the first plan of narrow self-interest is important. Here, first of all, I mean banks that shouldn't be put up in the interest rate and neglecting the country's enormous efforts, direct participation in reducing the risk of plasma. We expect them to minimise interest rates. It is up to entrepreneurs to prepare projects to withdraw the credits that are being opened to them. The expected positive effects of this Act are multiple, from fostering economic recovery to reducing liquidity, preserving jobs, and fiscal sustainability. We need all of this more than we need right now, so I support the government's efforts and work, and I propose a day through the Guarantee Fund Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46965	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46966	Thank you very much, Mr. Kulusic, exactly the opposite of your debate, you said that we could be pleased that our government has put public spending under control. On the contrary, we can be very unhappy about this and not only are we speaking out of opposition, say the professional public, speak trade unions and speak to others who participate in the public life of the Republic of Croatia, ultimately Croatian citizens say so. I will give you just one example if we decided last year not to introduce a crisis tax or a harrassor of 2.2 billion kuna would be less revenue planned in the budget, if it had been found for this amount of reduction in public expenditure it would have been a concrete and much greater aid to the Croatian economy than this guarantee fund. So we go exactly the opposite, we encourage public consumption, I won't say, there is a lot of analysis when compared countries in our environment, so that I'm not talking about Austria and Germany now that has public consumption or let's say cold, fixed expenditures of the administration of the state, and even up to 50% less than that in Croatia. So exactly the opposite, our country protects public spending, protects its costs, but it doesn't protect those 70,000 families who lost their income last year, so 300,000 of our fellow citizens where someone in the family is out of a job and have no life. It protects itself and does not protect Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46967	Answer Mr. Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46968	Mr. Maras, I wouldn't want to delude much with you, and two years ago when the situation was without those 70,000 unemployed as far as your foreign situation in the country was concerned, it was catastrophic. IF another 150,000 new ones were hired again, the situation would be catastrophic. Therefore, every discussion expressed exclusively by politics does not lead us or this country to anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46969	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Frano Lucic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46970	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here today we heard a few statements on the adoption of this new bill, and I also want to say a few words that this is exactly the time when the Government of the Republic of Croatia joined the banks with HBOR to this big deal, and I can say freely at a time when it is really necessary for the economy. What is the objective, and what is the essence of the adoption of this Law is certainly evident that the goal of overcoming difficulties in the economy, because the economy is that it is the driver of everything that is important to us for survival and without an economy simply has no future. The goal is to eliminate the global crisis on the Croatian economy that began in 2008, and I was already saying that the crisis had come to Croatia, but it certainly deepened as time went by. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has also adopted measures for economic recovery and development, and primarily to preserve jobs and create new conditions by certainly thinking about increasing investment. It is also primarily meant to provide a satisfactory level of liquidity that we are talking about today. And we are aware that without liquidity there is no functioning. We are also aware that due to this economic and global crisis, not only has liquidity reduction occurred, but what I think is the biggest and most worrying, there has been a decline of certain companies. I primarily think about those who export, and also about the European Union and, in general, the world market. The companies they've been doing, they no longer exist today, and that's what worries us, that all of us who participate in the economy and in any sense of economic development, we know that today is hard to do primarily because some companies or many companies have lost their customers. This is truly worrying today, perhaps more than liquidity. I am aware that regardless of the difficulties when we talk about liquidity many today would agree to pay 150 and 180 days. But what I said earlier, it's worrying that many companies have lost their customers. So no customers, they're just gone. When we talk about all these activities that the Government is taking, it is certainly important to say that with these measures it wants to ensure the stabilisation of revenues in the state budget. We are aware that if certain companies do not operate that if they do not have business in the economy and in their account, the revenues in the Treasury are less and less each day. It also wants to improve the structure of the balance of payments, as I said and, of course, all the other benefits that will come from this law. What are the basic questions, and what should be regulated by the proposed law? This law provides us with the establishment of a guarantee fund for economic recovery and precisely at a time when an economy like this is already in a difficult situation. Only such encouraging measures can the Government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with all other institutions stimulate the economy. And it is important to say that the Republic of Croatia will take over the coverage, the risks that we have not had before, and we have not had such incentives as we have today. In that part, the Republic of Croatia will assume part of its liability for individual entrepreneurs. What's the point of all this? First of all, the goal is to start investments, start projects. We are aware that the funds we are planning to get from the European Union, we cannot count on them unless we have prepared projects at the same time. Also for what the government is preparing today, projects are also needed in an economic entity, because only in such a way as to plan and new production and new programmes encourage the development of the economy, promote the growth of production and, of course, the growth of long-term unemployed people. One of my colleagues here was saying, or a colleague, that this is a short-term incentive of measures, that these are short-term measures. But respected colleagues and colleagues, these are long-term measures and the government cannot stop here. This is just one first step in this difficult time of the economic crisis and in the coming years to encourage production, because this is the best way and the ability to create new activities, create jobs and solve the problem of the unemployed people who are really very much at the institution today. Of course, through these projects we will have long-term investments and also partly crafts. It is important here to note that on behalf of the state here, the guarantee will be given by the HBOR on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. And it is indeed necessary here to stress that HBOR is the only bank in Croatia today, especially in these difficult times of interest in the development of the economy. This is a bank which in this difficult time was the only one offering a hand out of the economy from the crisis, unlike perhaps commercial banks who did not recognize it in this difficult time. It is said here, of course, that commercial banks do not follow the economy in that sense, which is to adjust their interest to these difficult conditions. I'm sure in these days no economy can do 12% interest and no company has a future with such interest. And therefore we also thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the HBOR who have made it possible for the economy to survive, and with this new fund to have a real future in their economy and in all those programmes that will be launched. I certainly must point out, since I come from Požega-Slavon County that this will be extremely useful for my county especially for those activities such as the wood industry today which suffers the greatest burdens because more than 7,000 people have lost their jobs. Also, the number of unemployed in my county is a thousand more people than it was in 2008. I am therefore sure that these measures guarantee the future of production, which today is at risk under these difficult conditions, and I am sure that with these incentive measures we will also be able to find new customers, because many companies have lost precisely those customers they have had in recent years. And that's why I support this new law, this economy rescue fund, because it comes at a time when it really is necessary. Of course, there are those who say it could have been before. But we are aware that in 2009 and the end of 2008 it was really very difficult and that the situation on the world market was far different than it is today and I am sure that with these funds we are going to encourage the economy and we are going to quickly return to the routine where we were a year and a half ago and then I am sure that with the continued financing of the economy in the next period of time we will certainly increase the number of employees and the growth of total revenues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46971	Thank you very much. We have two reports of replicas. First of all, dear dear Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I do not deny that certain effects under this law will be achieved. However, most of what you colleagues have been saying about these measures that have been passed, one of these measures translated into this law will not be achieved. And you know why? Because you and the government both deny the causes of the crisis in Croatia and say it is only a reflection of the global economic financial crisis. Unfortunately, it's not like that. And leaving the economic crisis in Croatia will be long-term and no such partial measures can be addressed. Namely, the cause of our crisis is in the system of economics. We have denied for decades that Croatian production is needed because we compensated it with imports. Now that I no longer have the means to import, we are now in trouble. We cannot stimulate economic growth in the situation where companies are too in debt today to be in debt again. We can't solve the problem while we have this high public spending. We have an economic downturn of 6%, and at the same time in the budget we increase expenditure by 7%. It's an unsustainable situation. And while we're not going to solve the economic structure with one smart economic policy, which is primarily based on discharging the economy and citizens because you don't even have an investment if the investment isn't competitive, if the investment doesn't have a placement, if the citizens don't have a purchasing power, you haven't solved anything. And that's why I'm skeptical that this is going to get high results.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46973	Thank you. Reply to the replica of fellow Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46974	So look, fellow Zgrebec, if we're all going to be skeptical in this case, then today we can think about closing down all economic operators. Well, I guess we're living in some hope and future that a new one will give some results for a while. I repeat again, these are not the short-term measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. These measures must be long-term in order for the Croatian economy to get what we want and that is to open new places and increase. So I really understand you, but I have the right to speak because I am also a participant in the economic sense and a participant in this major crisis and I had to make along with my company manager certain decisions that are truly unpopular. But, Your Honor, if we're not going to believe what we're bringing today, we certainly can't expect better results in the economy. But you're skeptical of everything in general and I really don't understand your position today when the government actually made a decision like this, you're doubting this guarantee fund again today. Well, I don't know what we're supposed to do and you're going to support government decisions at the same time and make tomorrow's economy better.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46975	Thank you. A colleague, Maras, also signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46976	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucic, we are not skeptical but we are sure that this government cannot get Croatia out of the economic crisis. And the other thing I wanted to say to you, you cried out for consumers. Well, you were the one who prompted the spending to fall in Croatia last year by raising your hand for crisis taxes, to increase VAT. In these two years, 2009 and 2010 5 billion kuna will charge Croatia according to these new taxes that the HDZ government is among them within the ruling coalition personally, and you who took Croatian citizens and reduced spending. 15% of last year's consumption fell, about 10% will be this year. Mr. Lucic, you can't cry for consumption on one side and on the other you can suppress it by taking people's money out of their pocket so they can't spend it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46977	Thank you. Reply to the replica of fellow Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46978	Here's a colleague before I tell you I'm Lucic, not Lucic. But here's two years we've been here, meeting, but here's another time you should know. Look, your general policy, looking at SDP's policy, is different from today's run by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, for what? Well, because you're really in opposition and you in all sorts of ways want to show up and talk to this public, I'm free to say it in such a perhaps harsh dictionary, in a variety of ways. My colleague, who brought in the locket as you call it? And that's not a hack. It's something this government had to do and because of all the problems that have arisen. You want to show this public persistently that this is not because it is a global and economic crisis but because the government has made certain mistakes. Well, dear colleague, when you're talking about a hack, I have to look back at your mayor and the city of Zagreb. You've got 18% cut. I'm not talking about all those accusations you've brought into this town and the burden of citizens who are really living in this difficult situation today. So why don't you say what you were doing in 2001, 2002, when you were in power. Doesn't it tell you enough that you were basically only four years old from the 20 years of the establishment of the Republic of Croatia in power and that's the best answer what and how citizens think about your policy. So don't deceive the public in these difficult times today. Help all those and, among other things, the Government of the Republic of Croatia who wants to encourage the economy and get out of these difficulties as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46979	Thank you very much. The Honorable colleague Davor Bernardic also applied for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46980	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I must start by saying that almost two years have passed since the first SDP alerts on the crisis. Almost two years have passed since the first warnings and announcements of the global crisis. At this point in time after two almost a year, the first measure for the economy is too late to know what effects will be produced which is sad. And it's sad because in the meantime, 73,000 people lost their jobs in the last year, because the number of insolvent craftsmen has increased to 36,000, because the number of insolvency companies has increased to 26 thousand, because 70,000 people have been directly threatened in that time, and after almost two years of the first announcement of the crisis, this measure comes. The only thing that's up in the meantime is taxes. A value added tax has been increased, mobile phone costs have been increased and crisis harrowers have been introduced to citizens. Both economics and citizens have been increased. What does the European Commission do before the end of 2008? What is the European Commission responsible for? The European Commission proposes a European recovery plan for the European economy on 20 pages with a set of measures recommended by countries to implement them. What does the responsible opposition do? A responsible opposition headed by the SDP also proposes 26 anti-recession measures to get the economy out of the crisis a year ago. None of these measures have been adopted. Meanwhile, 73,000 people are out of work, many companies are insolvent, the uncertain future of workers next year because according to HUP's announcements next year could be directly threatened by the loss of jobs of 50,000 people, and then one of our measures that went towards the recovery of the Croatian economy and the recovery of the company was just an increase in HBOR's credit potential for lending to economies. It comes with a year late. And if possible, if you want to call for a change in the government or by changing the prime minister in any case within half a year for the first measure on the economy, it is still too late and that is what is the big problem. When we talk about this bill, then we should note what and what message is being sent to the investor public, to those who want to invest in this country, to those who want to create new jobs. With the introduction of three new taxes, with the introduction of a bunch of new parafiscal duties in this past year we made it difficult for the Croatian economy, we did not help him. That's what's the big problem. Now we're going with this proposal to define a few things that even entrepreneurs don't know what they're going to come up with, for which even entrepreneurs don't know how they're going to use those funds. The first thing is that the credit user concluded with the date of 30 June 2008 was an economic operator that was not in difficulty. With that de facto 30 June 2008, you recognise it as the beginning of the crisis, which was a year and a half ago, although you denied the crisis for a year and a half. However, what if the economic operator was in difficulty on 30 June on only one day because of the outstanding i.e. unpaid claims, owed to him by the State or by the State-related enterprises, what in that case? That means he won't be able to save jobs, that means he won't be able to invest. Also, there's a matter of settled debt. The state can afford a luxury not to pay someone, but entrepreneurs cannot afford a luxury of not paying the state. Therefore, for the honest ones who regularly comply with their obligations, if they are and have become in difficulty, they will not be able to use this credit for resolution and restructuring, for liquidity and for whatever it can be used for, and these loans can be used for almost anything. And that is, that the state is one of the main generators from the state-owned liquidity company, we did a survey on 21 of the largest state-owned public enterprises in 2008 with outstanding liabilities of nearly 7 billion. 7 billion is a third of all outstanding obligations in legal entities. The state generates almost half and half indifference in the Croatian system. What makes entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurial public, those who want to invest and create new jobs, not only keep old, is skeptical because because of banking secrets, we cannot announce who will be the user of the loan and in what amount. These loans are granted up to 60 million. It's not small money. We'd like to know if there'll be black sheep among the team, whether they'll be the most unsettling ones in paying their obligations. It's a bad message, and on the other hand we help banks protect their placements, because we're de facto protecting the risks. something more risky bank placements, and they in return do not want to publish i.e. they may not publish data on those credit users, including those who do not deserve to receive the credit. The uncertainty of investment due to new imposings is not an climate in which people want to invest, and because of that, foreign investments dropped by 50% last year. But what needs to be asked, half a year from the arrival of the new government headed by the prime minister, we don't have a strategic framework for development, we don't have what we want to do and which industry we want to develop in the next period. Spain, when it began to chair the European Union, was the first document to be a strategic framework for development by 2020, on the basis of all the good European practices that are related to a common agricultural policy defined for 7 years, which is related to a common fisheries policy that is also defined at 7 years. What Europe does continuously, works on a long term, works with a plan, works strategically, works for 7 to 10 years. It's something Croatia doesn't have. And therefore, only with which I can conclude, we will support this guarantee fund, but a year and a half after the crisis, after the crisis in Croatia, we believe that the first measures for the recovery of the Croatian economy are coming too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46981	Thank you very much. We now have several corrections of the quote and several replicas. First, a prominent colleague, Frano Matušić, applied for a correction. Here you go, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, buddy, I guess your SDP bills aren't exactly in place. Namely, all if it were the exact information that you said about the state generating an internal debt. You said out of the total debt that is more than 20 billion kuna you found that the state owes 7 billion kuna and that's over 50%. That's what you said, that's exactly what you said. So that bill doesn't stand. Secondly, it is incorrect that the government is only taking the first measure now. The government had taken action before. We all know about the increase in funds secured in banks. We know how much it helped to stabilise the banking sector, which was a prerequisite for stabilisation, in fact, of the entire economy and of the economy. It is incorrect that very little has been achieved since Prime Minister Kosor arrived. You forgot that there were two budget rebalances, you forgot everything that was positively done. And when offering your measures, then you need to point out to Croatian citizens that among one of the main measures was the release of more than 50,000 employees in the public service. These were your measures for the supposed rescue of the economy. So, extra unemployment. Over 50,000 jobs you wanted to compromise on those beliefs. So they're doctors, teachers. So, it's not just public services are all those services that are meant by that not only of the clerks that you would most often mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46983	Thank you very much. Following the correction of the allegations, a respected counterpart, Dragan Kovacevic, applied. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the colleague found that this is the only measure implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia if the time of recession, crisis, etc. is calculated. So that's absolutely not true. Last year, we withdrew a series of measures that primarily meant stabilising state finances and, on the other hand, those were monetary policy measures. If these measures and those moves had not been withdrawn today, they would have been decommissioned both in the financial and monetary system, and they are just a prerequisite, so that we can implement these programmes where the government has managed to activate both the banking system and its institutions in order to enable our shareholders to reinvest and bridge current liquidity through these guarantees. Therefore, a number of moves and measures have been taken from state savings, including all of these others that you have listed, so to stabilise state finances, strengthened the monetary system, and therefore created assumptions for the withdrawal and those moves that are going this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46985	Thank you very much. And counterpart Davor Huška also applied for a correction of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46986	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, here is a clue to the correction of my colleague Kovacevic, I will complete the incorrect quote of my colleague Bernardic, who says these are the government's first moves towards the economy in the Republic of Croatia. Tax only to count certain activities that were during 2008, which continue in 2010, thus continuing to implement the programme to promote the international competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia's 2009 and 2010 economies. The value of the programme in 2009 alone was 46.7 million kuna and increased in 2010 to 53.6 million kuna. Only this programme approved 160 support for export-oriented wood processing companies, textiles, chemical industries. Strong support also gives HBOR particularly to exporters. There is a further programme to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises for the period from 2008 to 2012. Local development projects for the small economy for 2009. Continuing the implementation of the National Employment Encouraging Plan. Continuing the implementation of the Employment Support Act, which is only part of the government's activities during 2009 and continues in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46987	Thank you. And now we have two replicas. The first to apply for the replica was the Honorable colleague Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46988	Thank you. Comrade Bernardic, you are quite right when you claim that one of the main causes of this crisis is that the ruling did not want to accept at all the fact that society is in crisis when we warned of it. It's not fiction in Split's cemetery. There really is one tombstone, one monument that says, "I'm sick of telling you it hurts." So, the one that hurt was Croatian society, and the doctor was not his source. And it was the government. The patient's cry is help me, it hurts me, and... The one who wrote "A nice talk that hurts me" could be said for the entire Croatian society, "and we told you we were in a crisis" and you just didn't want to see it, cover it up, and you called us all kinds of names, and it was especially nice to say that we were disasterrs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we really are in a disaster. And you see, as far as the quasi of philosophical debates in this House went, the quasi of the school is whether we're in crisis or recession. And listen, we're here. The gross social product fell by 6.2%, and some would still argue that we are not so sick, but America is sick, so with cancer as one colleague said it has spread a little bit to us. Let's change Obama and finally solve all our problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46989	Nice suggestions, but here's your buddy Bernardic. You signed up for a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46990	You've seen that well. It was all just denial. And I will correct those who say that these are the first moves. No, these aren't the first moves, because for moves there must be plural. This is the first move because it's one. And we can't mix the regular activity of HBOR, we can't mix the regular activities of the local self-government unit programme with what needs to be done to save the economy at a time of crisis. You mentioned a few MPs, a series of measures the government has imposed. Yeah, but we'd like to hear them. We didn't hear them, that's what this is about. We have never heard of those measures, nor have We seen them. And when it comes to monetary policy measures, then it is known that monetary policy is not in the government's control, but is in the Central Bank's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46991	Thank you very much. And a replication application, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here's my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46992	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you mentioned the delay of this measure, so they say the best time to plant trees was always 20 years ago. And that's right. But it's also true it always gives time to plant trees. The same time for measures to promote economic activity is always today and will be in the future. But in order to be effective, there is much to be agreed on, and in particular the harmony and coherence of fiscal and monetary policy and the effective banking system. But the banks were not even ready to participate in such projects so far because they were more focused on financing those who were increasingly holding the financial leverage in their hands and paying them passive interest by 7% on deposits of billions, two or three or four kunas. And only when they came into the situation that they had a high liquidity surplus of that potential were they willing to credit-place that capital by even taking over the state guarantee. And this is one measure that couldn't have been passed before just because of bank behavior. I'm the only thing I'm afraid this situation is not going to take advantage of itself and they just see that chance, but it has to be done so that it can be with interest rates as low as possible because otherwise it won't be effective or effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46993	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46994	Thank you very much. You said it was never too late to plant trees. Well, I agree that you can always take off. to propose new measures, but if the European Commission did some things a year ago, if SDP suggested some things a year ago that you were offended by what we remind you of? That's what we can't figure out. We can't understand that if certain things could have happened a year and a half ago and some of the things we warned you about a year and a half ago that you'd be embarrassed about it, or that you were angry that we were warning you about it. It's the same thing to say when it comes to banks. This country is solely responsible for the functioning of the market, the government is responsible for the functioning of the country. And if there was no possibility of any other measures being made, it was certainly possible to increase the capacity of HBOR. What the SDP suggested. At that time, we were aware of the situation and proposed measures for a conscious and tailored situation. That's what we did responsiblely, but we didn't do it now, but we did it a year ago when the European Commission did it, when it was time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46995	Thank you very much. Next is the debate, and a colleague, Goran Maric, is coming. Here you go, buddy. Wrongly read. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46996	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to give me half a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46997	We'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46998	Here's to saying at first that I'm going to support this law as the first real anti-recession measure this government has, here's someone already said a year and a half after the crisis started. What worries me in some way and shows the government's relationship to the problem of the recession economy in Croatia is that here today there is neither Prime Minister nor Finance Minister, Vice-President of the economy in charge of defending this law. Yet this is not the law of one of many, this is the first anti-recession real measure the government proposes. This kind of action or similar was defended by Prime Minister Merkel in the National Assembly in Slovenia, but here we have a valuable state secretary defending a law that may be crucial and that first shows the government's will to help Croatian businesses help the Croatian economy. So, when we talk about having entered a deep recession last year, that GDP dropped 6.5% almost, that 73,000 people were out of work, that indifference within 25 billion kuna, 26, that debt increased to 43 billion external debt, attitude towards Parliament, to the Croatian public is not good when there is no vice president in charge of the economy at the very least, and it would be good if there were also Prime Minister Kosor here. So when do we get this first measure on the table? 2010, second month. When do others do that? This is not the only such measure in Europe and it is good to compare and see when others have taken such or similar measures. Slovenia in 2008, 11 months. So a year and four months. before us. Germany in 2009, 2 months. A year before we did. Well, then, gentlemen, don't argue that we reacted in time. We didn't! We've been late for over a year, and that's the direct consequence of 73,000 people who lost their jobs last year, and that's why, in some way, this government and most of us need to have an increased sense of responsibility and say, "Yeah, we're late, people are out of work, and we're kind of sorry, but now we're gonna try to make things right." But that's not there, you deny that story. You deny 73,000 families, 300 thousand of our fellow citizens who lost their source of income last year. Just because this government is late with measures to help the economy in recession. One more thing, what measure was that in Slovenia? A fund worth 5 billion euros. 5 billion euros were foreseen by Slovenians to represent such a fund, of which the state participates directly with certain money, and not in Croatia where 2 billion kuna is predicted, which is about 15 times less than one Slovenian predicted, and Slovenia is as much as we know a double smaller country per population of Croatia, 15 times smaller and twice smaller country. And on the other hand, they've already realised more than half of that fund by now. Germany, 100 billion euros in March. Of these, 25 billion euros were paid directly by the state to the fund and to help companies and the economy in Germany. Okay, Germany is 15 times our size, so the equivalent of that would be 6.7 billion in Croatia. That's 50 billion kuna, not 2 as we see it today. And again I say direct money from the state budget whether, in Germany, it was the same as it would be in Croatia to go through HBOR. So HBOR's capitalization that loans can be granted directly. And there I was a little worried about, and in the light of this law, the thesis that says, "for the implementation of this law, there is no need to secure any resources in the state budget." No, no, these are just guarantees. So, again, the state gives nothing, gives a guarantee but has not given up swearing out of the budget to help the Croatian economy. On the other hand, I said earlier, she took 5 billion kuna in two years for Croatian citizens. As far as difficulties are concerned, the difficulties of businesses, we are talking about this in the Law, it says that on July 1st, it is taken as that limit. I remember a year ago and a few days ago Sanader Ivo, the prime minister of the then-Croatian Republic, said he had no problems, no recession, we're doing great, I remember Minister Shuker, then he wasn't the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy that proposed the 127 billion kuna budget. Now we admit that half a year ago, the criteria by which the recession is recognised are in place, but a year ago, we said there was no recession and that we were going to pass in that troubled sea as a single boat that might swing a little bit but there wouldn't be any problems. That's what gentlemen tell us to tap in the dark and remind me of one scene, you'll probably all remember, there was a cult movie in the former state "Who's singing there" and then that scene where there's a conductor on the bus saying "Who says that Misko can't drive with his eyes tied" and then he tied Mouse's eyes and he was driving the bus blind. That's how we gentlemen behave in Croatia, the Croatian government is leading this state with its eyes tied, the tap in the dark, and it doesn't know where it will come at the end of the road. But also in that film on the horror of passengers on the bus, because we are all Croatian citizens who watch the Croatian government run this country. So, Minister Schuker shuts his eyes to the driver, which is, in this case, Prime Minister Kosor, who then has to drive a bus and all Croatian citizens inside him, unfortunately. I'll only say a few words about the law because I'll support it. I hope the Secretary of State accepts some suggestions that I have specifically on him. First, in Article 8, which speaks of the means, which are intended and in some ways the time limit. I think it would be correct if this article predicted a start of at least two years, we expect a further decline this year, regardless of what the budget plans... from 0.5% and we expect a 2 to 3% drop, the following year will be at least again stagnation and it would be good to regulate the start of companies that receive loans under this Act. On the other hand, it is absolutely important to try to influence interest on these loans as low as possible, 5% to 6% maximum, and I'm afraid someone said the same thing earlier, that banks will benefit greatly from this law. Perhaps the largest in terms of the economy and those that will be included in the whole process, because the funds will be secured by the release of the CNB reserve that pays 0.75% interest to banks for these money, and now the banks will be able to place at 4, 5 or 6% interest and make a difference, so 4 to 5% of the banks will be able to make direct profits on these transactions, which says, let's say 4 billion kuna, it's possible that some 250 to 300 million kuna that will directly profit the bank. I think it's useful if we do such things to try to influence as little interest as possible, to try to go as much over HBOR as possible, so I think it would be better to sell the bonds of the state to the CNB and the money that would be invested in HBOR and recapitalisation and through HBOR with low interest to try to help companies. So don't go around in this case, maybe the banks, and maybe even force them to lower the interest rates they now have for the economy. That way the effect would be much greater, I think it should be done that way. In the end, I say again, I support any measure, and this is definitely the first measure to help the economy and recession, and that's why I'm going to be in favor of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u46999	Thank you very much. It's as usual, first of all, with the corrections of the quote we're going. Dear colleague Neda Klaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. counterpart says and incorrectly states that the government is the first time to show the will to help the economy. I'll tell you, colleague Maras, one piece of information that in 2008 small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were granted aid of 172.3 million kuna, which is 222% more than in 2007, but also 29% less than in 2006. In addition to those aid of 173,3 million in 2008, small and medium-sized enterprises were granted small-value support of 162.6 million kuna. So over 335 million kuna support in various forms was allocated to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47001	Thank you. Next, an important colleague, Bozica Šolić, applied for correction. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47002	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's listening to my colleague Maras, so I'm only going to make one correction, even though I could make it right for him. But the correction is that you said that Schucker had tied the prime minister's eyes and that Mrs. Prime Minister was driving blind. Comrade Maras, that's not true, you're aware of that, and I'd tell you exactly what's true, what's a fact and what I can confirm to you. If you had tied your eyes to the mayor of the City of Zagreb for 10 years, he had appointed you incasators, you had ripped off the citizens of the City of Zagreb, driving blindly. And what today kept your product, the driver, ruined along with the incasators, with the SDP. This means that Holding is now at a loss of about a billion kuna, and you SDP incasators should answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47003	Thank you very much. Let's correct the allegations. Next up, a colleague named Huška came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47004	Well, Mr. Vice-President, also related to the horror of Croatian citizens led by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. It is not an exact allegation, and this is simply evident from the fact that citizens have been giving very good reviews of the government's work for a long time, especially the prime minister, who has long been the most popular politician in the Republic of Croatia. Here's so much about the horror of citizens who are afraid of the prime minister and government who are taking us to Croatia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47005	Thank you very much. Next, he applied for a correction by distinguished counterpart Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would correct the inaccuracies of fellow Maras who found that the state is not ready and under this law does not single out a single kuna for this guarantee fund. Namely, I will make amends with what is said in the assessment of the necessary means of law enforcement, where it is said: "The implementation of this law does not require the provision of funds in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010", which is precisely because the guarantee fund needs to be operational, loans should first be given "until the amount is planned for the following financial years in accordance with the budget rules, and the basis of the data on the use of funds from the proposed fund". So, when only loans come into effect when they start to be used when you see whether they pay off neatly, whether they are risky, whether they are chargeable, etc. The State shall take over its share of the risk and guarantee it with the resources of the State budget. Therefore, this finding is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47007	Thank you. The alleged correction application was also made by distinguished counterpart Ivanka Roksandic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47008	Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Maras, you've described it very vividly, so I'll try but I don't believe it so vividly, but this sentence specifically encouraged me to answer you. The Croatian government runs this state with its eyes tied. That's exactly what you said. No, I don't. My colleague Maras opened her eyes wide. And along with a whole series of incentives not to repeat what counterpart Klaric quoted as saying is this guarantee fund. A guarantee fund which primarily has the task of economic assistance to the recovery and development of the economy. Just another one in a series of little cubes that the government agrees to strengthen the economy, to provide entrepreneurs with what kind of security they can get to save at this point thousands of those who expect this so they don't have to shut down their businesses and their companies. And so do those who do. Exactly to reduce what you were talking about, which is growing and growing unemployment. So, the whole government opened their eyes, didn't drive with their eyes closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47009	Thank you. And colleague Vesna Buterin has also been reported for correction of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47010	Thank you very much. So I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Maras, who says that the Croatian government is leading this country with closed eyes. On the contrary, counterpart Maras, it is evidence that so far in this Croatian Parliament a series of anti-recession measures have been taken, that the government has made a number of anti-recession decisions that the government is currently fighting against this economic and economic crisis. The proof that Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor is very determined and successful in running this country, is the fact that it has been declared a personal and political year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47011	Thank you. The application for a replica to be presented by colleagues Maras was given by a respected counterpart, Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47012	Thank you very much. A fellow Maras criticising government measures, a colleague of Maras, compared them with the measures brought by countries in the European Union, but you only mixed things up a little. In fact, you mentioned the measures that most European countries have taken in monetary policy and central banks, not fiscal policies. You also said that the adoption of measures caused an increase in unemployment of 70,000 people. I don't want to correct incorrect allegations, but it still falls under the category of one free interpretation, not the fact. In fact, I hope you've heard Okun's law that says, "2% of GDP falls causes 1% of unemployment." In Croatia, the decline in GDP is 6.2% and the increase in unemployment is 21%. It is obvious that both those companies and those employees who did not fall in business activity, who did not lose their income, but who were not satisfied with the profits achieved and so large, wanted even greater profits. In a country where, and in the Republic of Croatia 4.5 million people in 8 years, net profits of €222 billion or €32 billion were achieved, 291 thousand should not be unemployed if all economic operators are responsible and should not be hungry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47013	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Goran Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47014	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, you're partly right. And those who have, you're not completely fired, and I'll tell you where you're not. Those who may not have needed were also fired. But unfortunately, we are not talking about entrepreneurs and their responsibility for the situation in the Croatian economy, we are talking about government. The government is responsible for whether this number or so of new people are employed, that is, if employed goes to credit, but if 73,000 in Croatia loses their jobs, there is no positive rating for any government, so it can't be for this one. On the other hand, I was talking about measures, and in Germany it is the case that the German government has placed the money in co-operation with the central bank through the German HBOR. So this case is likely to take place in other measures in Croatia. It was 100 billion euros, of which the German government secured 25 billion euros in cash and 75% in guarantees. The Croatian government has secured 2 billion kuna, zero in cash, 2 billion kuna in guarantees.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47015	Thank you. And the last application for the replica of my colleague Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47016	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, what you asked yourself, and you were right to ask yourself is that for the purposes of the guarantee, there will be no need to secure funds in the state budget. It won't take this year, but it'll take every year next year, but that's why this year for some other stuff. For large public spending, we confirm for two points of the agenda a new 200m-euro loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So for these two points, we already have new responsibilities that this House will ratify. And when there were talks about the budget, when there were talks on budget rebalancing and on government anti-recession measures through two budget rebalances, then it should be fair to say that budget rebalances were also made and made solely because they could raise additional funds by credit debt. Now in the next period until there are new responsibilities for this won't be necessary these few months. However, when you talk about where the government will obtain funds, the government is providing funds in different ways, but for two points we will discuss a new credit debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47017	Thank you. The answer to the replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47018	Thank you very much. My friend Bernardich, what you said hit the real point. No real things, no structural reforms. Here's Sanader's government in six years doctored in one process. When the problem comes up with something on the other side, you lose sight of the problem and it gives the public the impression that you're successful. Well, we've heard for six years that Sanader's government is successful, and now here's Sanader's fault for everything. For six years, his moves, etc., and where did that lead us? At minus GDP 6.5%, in 350 thousand unemployed who will be likely by the end of the year, etc. And this particular move of this government is about that direction with as little effort as possible, with fewer denials and only 2 billion guarantees, look away from those real problems and create the impression that something is going on. Unfortunately, this isn't enough. We gentlemen must go into structural reforms, cut public spending, in some way make painful cuts in this society, but apparently this government has no power and that it continues to follow the old sprawl of the stalking Sanader government for the last six years to create the impression that something is going on and essentially the right thing, real reforms don't touch and don't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47019	Thank you very much. Next is the debate applied for by a distinguished colleague of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47020	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I'd say a few sentences about the law itself, but before the law itself, I'd remind you. First of all, I am pleased that the law is finally and set one date, which is the first of which is, everywhere else and in Croatia, obviously starting to count when the major difficulties caused by the economic crisis began. I want to remind all of us, however, that at the end of October 2008, there was a large set of businessmen who were symbolically then called "5 to 12" and where the businessmen asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do something because the effects of the economic crisis began to feel very strongly in Croatia. In early 2009, at a meeting of the Croatian Employers' Association, it was warned at that time that in early 2009, the number of workers in the processing industry alone reached 150 and that by the end of 2009, the number of newly employed workers on the labour market would be more than 50,000 from the industry alone. Then I remind you that the Croatian Employers' Association also presented its package of emergency measures for the rescue of industrial jobs, which was then proposed by the HUP at the beginning of 2009, to establish, among other things, the government's Intervention Guarantee Fund. Please, gentlemen, that was just a year ago. And let's look each other in the eye and let's say at that time in early 2009 by the government in some way it was to say "no" to say the word "crisis". To say that word here in this Croatian assembly was to put yourself in a position to accuse you of being at least catastrophic. Personally, I also experienced it from the finance minister when I asked him a parliamentary question. So today we are at the beginning of 2010, the government finally comes with a bill of this kind that talks about a guarantee fund for economic recovery and development. And of course, in this assembly, at least as far as the SDP is concerned, all will support this law as one of the measures that we claim with great delay is coming and which should have been not three months ago, four months or six months but at least a year ago. And certainly even then, that there was a will and that there was a wish from the then government or the current government that such a bill could go through. Why am I saying this? So let me warn you of another one. In fact, the government also announces this part that is related to the establishment of economic funds. I remind you, especially you who have been following this section that is related to funds and assistance from the European Union, members of the European Union have since the beginning of 2009 been strengthening support for the economy, and then the European Commission adopted the so-called "European Commission" in April 2009. the temporary framework for state support measures for access to finance in the emerging financial and economic crisis. It is a member of the European Union but according to how I read from the warnings and experts, or economists and Croatia, which, since the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, should apply the European Union's support rules enabling stronger support for firms in difficulty. The framework of the European Commission was published in "National Journals" in Croatia in May 2009. We're in February 2010 and we're just announcing that we're going to go with something like that. And why am I saying this? Most of all because I warn that this temporary framework is valid until the end of 2010, and then the question is whether at least we're going to get to this part to take advantage of something, so please the Secretary of State is there, maybe in his closing statement he'll say something about it because it's practically lost for seven, eight months. When we talk about this bill, just a few sentences and a few thoughts and suggestions for possible improvement. What I think is most important in this bill, and I believe that you will agree with me here, which is that in law enforcement or adoption, what we are going to write inside and even more about law enforcement is guaranteed maximum transparency, transparency in terms of who gets guarantees from the state. I think it's very important because so far in some other things, when I talk about one article of the law, it still shows that there was no transparency. Also when we talk about this law regarding Article 10 that speaks about whom the guarantee will not be given, so who in some way if the competition is not going to have any conditions and now some things are listed, among other things, says if the credit user does not have a fixed debt to the state, and I ask the question, yesterday I have asked him it seems to me at a session of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership what about those who are in difficulty because the state owes them? What about these entrepreneurs? Second, how and whether it will be possible to prevent situations from e.g. Some major entrepreneurs who have bigger, let's call it, market power compete on this, while at the same time having debts to their suppliers who are much smaller and much weaker than they are, will they possibly have such large entrepreneurs if they compete for these guarantees, for example. limit or condition them to first settle debt to their suppliers. I think that should be taken into account and that it should be written either in this law or in some additional of those so-called sublegal acts to be drawn up. So here you go, gentlemen, you'll get a guarantee, but from that you settle your debts to your suppliers or at least reduce that mandatory payment time to some reasonable measure. As regards Article 8 and to which the financing of guarantees is intended under this law. I support the proposal of five union centres, and I will also submit an amendment in this sense to add a new item in Article 8, thus further paragraph 5, where it will stand to the advantage of those projects that retain existing jobs, i.e. have a chance to create new jobs. I am saying this because I have read some materials relating to providing support to the textile industry where support has been found to have been given to individual entrepreneurs from that branch, and that they have subsequently closed down a number of jobs. So I personally support the union center's position and, in that sense, I will give the amendment. And finally, about that transparency I was talking about. I believe that this can also be achieved further through this bill, and Article 16 where the HBOR states in paragraph 1 that it is obliged to report to the Ministry of Finance on the guarantees given, the guarantees charged, the repayment of funds on the basis of the guarantees paid. So, I think it should be introduced that, perhaps after each round, the funds are allocated to the publication of the transparent firm that has received these funds, with all the more that the HBOR will be obliged to submit to the Ministry of Finance. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47021	Thank you very much. A colleague named Ingrid Antičević-Marinović applied for the replica. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47022	Comrades, when you ask perfectly normal questions regarding the work of the guarantee fund for economic recovery, they do not find an answer for those who should, who are participants tomorrow, who will operationally implement what is here with this bill and imagined. In fact, we all know that history is a long and infamous fund in Croatia. I'm afraid that's the way it's gonna be with this. In fact, in the development bank they don't give any, they don't know how to give concrete answers, so they do with other banks, they don't know by what criteria credits will be shared. They don't know it, so they don't know it. They don't know it. They don't know it. So, I'm afraid everything here has been seen again since 2004, that great famous economic one or what was then called the offensive, the export offensive. So let us remember those trips across America, in Canada, about some of the economics they will come to. So again, it's all certain, we have no answer to basic questions, again about one great spin that is now being done so well in public, but when the results are seen then another fund will come again, another story, and the spokesman will probably then justify and find a variety of excuses as is now taking place in connection with our biggest project, which Mrs. Kosor presented, building a highway in Montenegro where everyone there has been painted neatly, and now Memun must seek justification.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47023	Replication response, colleague Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47024	Thank you. Well, my colleague, you're right. In recent years, some legal frameworks have been passed in this House, some laws proposed by the Croatian government that have finally proved to have no effect, and I will only remind myself that we are in the context of a debate on the preservation of jobs, remember we have taken down one law of compensation for the unemployed to be said then, that part of the funds directed to that part of the aid that would go to entrepreneurs to preserve jobs. I'm aware that from, not just me, but the exact indicators are that there was nothing of such a bill, unfortunately. I will say this, I sincerely hope that this law will still be something, but if everything has changed so much in this country as is suggested by HDZ, then I hope that if, after the praise of one law that the government proposes, it is after some time established that this law has absolutely no effect and that it only further serves to extract funds in a non-transparent way with the guarantee of the state, then it will finally be time for someone to answer for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47025	And for the replica, the esteemed colleague Dragutin Bodakosh signed up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47026	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Sobol, you have certainly mentioned this Article 8 which is very important, the question and allocations of these guarantees and one of the segments, and especially related to the reprogramming of loans agreed after 1 July 2008 refers precisely to agricultural production. It was 22.16 billion kuna at current prices in 2008, so 10% higher. This must be the biggest increase in agricultural production, the value of that production. On this basis, it was normal to create and increase the inputs, fuel, fertilisers, etc. However, at the same time in 2009, there was a constant decline in these prices of agricultural products, while at the same time through state programmes in the development of livestock, land purchase, capital investments in the mechanisms of people were in debt or certain enterprises, whether family economies or agricultural enterprises. In such a situation, it is certainly necessary that this reprogramming of loans created after 1 July 2008 be reduced to this part of the guarantees. And for what? So because some milk producers who were and who were in charge of even 17 and 20 million kunas if they are not enabled to reprogramme the farms that were made, which produced milk, and we know what the situation with the price of milk was like, so the farms will easily come into difficulty in being sold, i.e. the banks will get them and sell them. However, a question arises as to who would be sold, and how could this return to the bank's credit funds be achieved? That's why I think it's important and related to the loans that agricultural production has raised since 1.8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47027	There's no need for a reply to the replica, so let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, we have before us how we all know the proposal for a law on the guarantee fund for economic recovery and development. This is only one in a series of measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and taken to recover the economy in the Republic of Croatia. I counted during the debate, taxing a whole series of measures in the past two years taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And there will likely soon be additional measures ahead of us that are being prepared. This law proposes the establishment of a guarantee fund for economic recovery and development through which the Republic of Croatia will assume coverage of part of the risk of new credit exposures. The intention is primarily to encourage the launch of investment projects that will bring positive effects for the Croatian economy. The increase in credit ratings through this funding model will contribute to the growth of production, employment, competitiveness of Croatian entrepreneurs, the preservation of existing jobs and, of course, the creation of new added value. Projects considered acceptable in this model focus primarily on long-term investments. So, on new projects, and partly on credits to finance crafts. The provision of guarantees under this model shall be carried out by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Croatia under the predetermined criteria and procedures, including the definition of a clear, transparent framework for action. It should be said that there are more and more credit funds on the Croatian market. Through this guarantee fund, at least 4 billion new credits will be provided for Croatian businessmen, and if we play with the possibility that banks offer 70% of the risk-taking auction, that the state from this 2 billion guarantees 30% of the risks covered through the guarantee fund we get a loan fund of 6 and a half billion kuna for Croatian entrepreneurs. The banks will fight for loans in the tender, or auctions, we hope they will fight to get as much credit as possible in this way, and the basic criteria that are here are just assumed the share of the risk taken by the business bank, means the largest percentage if the bank takes over. The credit potential is again increasing in total and of course the interest rate level where the objective is to reduce the interest rate for our entrepreneurs. So far, in Croatia, and especially in war-torn areas, in areas of special state care, entrepreneurs have found it difficult to provide the necessary guarantees either through mortgages or through other guarantee instruments to banks. Because the bank criteria are getting stricter. The risk taken over by banks was growing over time, for example when banks naturally go to the field and evaluate the property of entrepreneurs offering mortgages, to secure their loans in war-torn areas, in areas of special public concern. The values of identical objects can be reduced by a dozen times, perhaps a dozen times by bank evaluators compared to the areas of Croatia where there were no war injuries. And precisely in those areas where entrepreneurship and economy are being restored and developed, in areas of the special state interest of the Republic of Croatia, additional injections are needed for entrepreneurs through favourable credit arrangements with business banks. And so far, this significant and great role has been played by the HBOR, which had certain privileged criteria, so I will say for the farmers in the field of special state care. So, the guarantee, the guarantees offered at this time by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through this guarantee fund, will come to a better reception with entrepreneurs with a war on the affected areas, from the area of special state interest, because in this way they will be able to obtain their own guarantee potential, a guarantee that will take over and risk the bank of business, and this guarantee that is extremely important by the Republic of Croatia is able to obtain the conditions to raise loans and for crafts and for new investments as well as provided for by this programme. In this programme, one more thing should be taken into account, that the possible reduction in interest rates that we expect will come from the titles of the bank's business banks do not break through the various fees that they have been used to introduce in different credit agreements, so that the interest rate for entrepreneurs is formally reduced, but that credit benefits varying from credit granting fees, from credit fees, early repayment fees for loans and other charges which are not visible at the interest rate. So here I ask that this really special attention be paid to the negotiation of business with commercial banks is devoted to making at an interest rate which is likely to be far more favourable than it is today in business banks thanks to this guarantee guarantee guarantee from the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that business banks do not cover that reduced interest rate through various fees that can be charged by the end-user of the credit, in this case by entrepreneurs. Finally, I would like to say that it is good to use the existing instrumentation that we have in the Republic of Croatia and which has proved to be extremely good, it is the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and not to waste time, and probably also money to organise some new agencies that would intercede to business banks for the use of this guarantee potential. Entrepreneurs should be invited now, already today, to move towards business banks, to submit requests for loans that will be granted through this programme so that banks have already a certain fund for credit claims at the time of the opening of the auction so that they can go with certain requirements for the total amount of credit and, of course, calculate at interest rates which are particularly interesting for business banks. With a percentage of the guarantee where I am sure that these 50% of the estimated 2 billion will experience a reduction, i.e. the total credit fund will be at least 5, 6, and in the case of 30% of the State guarantee and 6.5 billion new credit funds for entrepreneurs. In addition, another good news along with this increased savings of citizens where free credit funds are created the expected decline of passive savings rates has come and comes at these moments at a reduction by the CNB according to the business banks mandatory reserves by 1% which releases commercial banks an additional 3 billion, namely 2 billion and 900 million kuna, free funds that associated with these expected 5.6 and perhaps more billions of these programmes truly create an extremely valuable and high credit potential for entrepreneurs throughout the Republic of Croatia. Of course, with an expected significant drop in interest rates for economic projects under this programme. Finally, we also heard from the Secretary of State that the Government is preparing for other entrepreneurs who will not be able to meet the criteria set out in this programme for their economic recovery, for their economic development and I look forward to these proposals appearing here at the Parliament and discussing them. Of course I give full support to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47029	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'm really glad to hear your optimism about getting these funds better, and also the amount of interest, that the goal is to keep them as low as possible. But we also had nice stories about working Friday, so we know how it ended. However, I think it should certainly be pointed out here that the continuation of production in agriculture is one of the essential moments because everything we produce in agriculture is normally sold immediately. Therefore, it cannot be stopped with that production. We also know that the over-indebtedness of both farmers and production organizers is high, and that is why it is necessary for the guarantee fund to enable production organizers to continue this production. But what's important is that every production can't handle the same percentage of interest and that's why I think for agriculture if it's not below 7%, that interest will be a big problem. And secondly, the question of guarantees that will receive these loans and the transparency of the granting of these loans should be such that those who accept them have a guarantee and give assurances that they can and can return them. All that's bad, what's unquality, it needs to go bankrupt. Or that through business, to be bought by a business capable, that is, the basic objective is certainly to continue production in this agricultural production, not that these producers become those who will remain in debt to the banks, to shut down production because then we will have the most difficult problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47031	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Huška, not Kruška coworker Bodakosh, but no problem. Here's another two years, so I guess we'll remember each other's names and last names are right in front of us. What's with the optimism? Well, I'm glad that you share, too, and today everyone who participated in the debate, optimism over this one in a series of projects and programmes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia offers on the market and where it guarantees entrepreneurs with significant means of obtaining quality credit. Surely, if this programme does not cover agricultural producers, it should literally invent and design a new programme that would include agricultural producers who are not in a great position today after the abolition of some of the subsidies from the state budget, they are in particular in need of assistance. And I come from a Požega-Slavon farm, and I meet with people who do agricultural production on a daily basis. I know it's not easy for them. We also refer them to cities, municipalities, counties, entrepreneurship centres at the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which still has a very favourable conditions for agricultural producers today, but I believe that the government will certainly give special attention to farmers in this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47033	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So after a long time of hesitation and failure to take concrete measures, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with a delay of about a year and more, proposes one concrete measure to help the Croatian economy. It is proposed that the Act on the Guarantee Fund for Economic Recovery and Development is intended primarily for entrepreneurs engaged in production activities, and in order to overcome the difficulties facing the Croatian economy today. I said late measures and all kinds of reasons. All year round 2009, throughout 2009, the number of insolvent legal entities has been increasing steadily throughout 2009. So in July 2009, their total number was about 23 thousand, and they hired about 40,000 workers. The amount of outstanding, outstanding liabilities amounted to 18.2 million kuna and increased by 48.2% compared to the same period last year, which is 5.9 billion kuna. There was nothing better with craftsmen, where in late July 2009, a total of 34 thousand natural persons were unable to pay, and the amount of their outstanding liabilities reached as much as 4.6 million kuna. It is alarming that 70% of legal persons are inequitable due to the obligations of unsettled persons for more than a year. It should be said that since the end of 2008, by now over 80,000 workers have lost their jobs, and only during the 11th and 12th months of 2009, about 20 thousand of them. So today we find that we have reached the figure of about 300 thousand workers, located at the Employment Office, and this brings us closer to the figures we had during the year 2000. As the only anti-recession measures, the government introduced a hacker, increased the value added tax rate to 23%, which directly affected the decline of citizens' standards and consequently the fall in personal consumption. That this measure was delayed by the government by the speech of entrepreneurs, the Croatian Employers' Association also speaks about it. They are also not satisfied with this bill's proposal, they say the measures are too late, that they need to reduce public spending primarily, reduce labour prices, review parafiscal burdens that are not reduced, but have introduced some new ones, and all this burdens the Croatian economy and entrepreneurs so that this measure is a drop in the sea which is certainly not able to solve the problems of the Croatian economy. In assessing the proposed law, it should be said that neither the procedure relating to the application for the use of these favourable loans is detailed in the same way, there is also a great possibility of misuse of credit funds due to their non-intentional spending. In particular, Article 6(1) provides that the HBOR will carry out supervision of the dedicated use of loans for which the guarantee is granted, but in which way it does not appear in the proposal for a law anywhere. Furthermore, Article 10(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 provides that guarantees are not granted to non-settlement users, I must say a very general standard. The question, whether it means debt to the state and parafiscal imposition, for example, contributes to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, memorial rent, maritime contribution, then whether local taxes, taxes belonging to local and regional administrations and self-government are meant here. Furthermore, whether the loan will be granted to entrepreneurs who have the Ministry of Finance a solution to the periodical payment of taxes and contributions as well as a delay in the implementation. The problem I see is that a large part of the postponement of the payment or delay of the application could have been obtained I must say privileged entrepreneurs. In some ways, the state has already given them credit for 10 wars, giving them... a delay in paying taxes and contributions, or delayed their performance for 6 months, and now I can understand them as far as I understand this bill's proposal can still be users of credit through this bill. And I am afraid, in conclusion, that this guarantee fund, or loans to be placed on the basis of this Fund, would again be allocated by some kind of political similarity, by some other key to entrepreneurs, while those entrepreneurs who do not enjoy policy protection might remain short sleeves this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47035	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Željka Antunović, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47036	Thank you very much. counterpart Nada Čavlović Smiljanec spoke a lot with a lot of arguments about insolvent legal persons in Croatia, extremely high insolvency and incompetence of people to normally, i.e. legal persons to function in economic space. However, colleagues have another problem not only insolvencies related to this Law. It states in Article 10 that the guarantee under this Act will not be granted to credit users if the creditor does not have a fixed debt to the State. In this extremely high indifference that exists in the state, in a large number of insolvency legal entities, the question arises who, if the provision is strictly respected, will be able to use credit. IS this criterion that in advance eliminates the largest number of perhaps creative, perhaps entrepreneurs with really real projects that have a future not because it is insolvent, and insolvencies may have led it to non-payment of state or state-owned companies may not be able to be a beneficiary of the loan. And again, we come to the fact that this is a great idea, one of the countless possible and necessarily necessary measures that should have been taken, but which, unfortunately, as entrepreneurs themselves say, is going to have a very tricky time, or it's very cleverly imagined and its final result and its implementation is questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47037	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47038	Well, Mrs. Antunovic, I fully agree with you and I'd like to add something else. Indeed, as far as these standards are concerned, that this loan will not be possible for entrepreneurs who have debts to the state, one big problem that you mentioned is that a large number of entrepreneurs did not pay their full obligation to hold, tax and other contributions precisely for the reasons why suppliers, i.e. most of the state and state enterprises did not pay those entrepreneurs their claims. I have to say that a total of 20 major state-owned companies have unsettled 11 billion kunas. So out of the unsettled, unsettled and unsettled liabilities that amounted to around 20 billion kuna in 2009, half were for state-owned companies only.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47039	Thank you. It's next, Honourable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47040	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must agree with my colleagues and colleagues who said in their discussions that this was actually the first concrete anti-recession measure of the government but a large number of them said a late anti-recession measure. I recall that at the end of 2008, the SDP Club proposed its first anti-recession measures, so that was the moment when the current government actually denied the existence of the crisis. So, from that moment to the occurrence of this concrete measure, it has been more than a year and it is actually inadmissible for a lot of time, because every day the economy has been sinking more and more, the situation has been getting more complex and no one can absolutely convince me that these measures are, in fact, concrete, that it was proposed earlier that the effects would not be much more measurable and much more favourable. Unfortunately, the water has reached the throat for entrepreneurs, among them is unfortunately a large number of companies that were very good companies until yesterday, and that these entrepreneurs would save themselves or the company from the total sinking mass transfer this heavy recession burden to their employees as well as consumers, who when they run out of work, and now we have heard them several times today this data over 300 thousand. Therefore, they remain without regular incomes and are even more likely to speed up the drop in demand, and hence the decline in domestic gross products. That is why this legal proposal is literally a lifeline and should therefore be supported even though it is well behind. Better late than never. The current liquidity situation in Croatia is indeed paradoxical. On the one hand, we have banks with surplus liquid capital, liquid potential estimated at between 4 and 5 billion kuna. And on the other hand, we have at the same time an economy that is convulsing in hyper indifference. Because here I have to say Croatian entrepreneurial success is actually measured by the success of the wing "Paid later and charge as soon as possible". So on the one hand, we have extra capital, and on the other hand we have a hunger for capital. And these particular difficulties of the economy are the main source of risk to banks that keep them from paying the economy. And it's an awful vicious circle. The Americans addressed the problem in a way that they had recently directed a part of the bank's profits back to the economy, and that is how our Croatian government addressed it in a way that convinced banks to place excess capital on the economy so that the state guarantees them a coverage of part of the risk of credit placements. Because this legal proposal has actually made the state a guarantee to the economy and has taken over part of the risk of business banks for credit ratings to companies. And that's a good solution if there's no better one. But this solution, we have to say, raises some questions, so I'm going to say some of these questions right here. For example, if the state is the only part of the guarantee to the economy in case they can't repay the loans, we wonder what that impact will have on the state budget. In particular, the 2011 and 2012 budget projections do not provide for any resources that will be needed if these State guarantees are activated in order to prevent entrepreneurs from returning loans. Furthermore, part of the guarantee fund will also be able to be used for crafts, therefore also to settle tax debts to the state. Clearly provided that the potential credit user has a regulated debt to the State. Therefore, the state will guarantee credit assets to which the debtor will pay his obligations to the same state. Who can guarantee that it will not be possible on a purely customeristic principle as we must admit it, not rarely until now, to regulate the debt to the state so that the company can acquire the conditions for obtaining a loan from the guarantee fund. Furthermore, transparency in the allocation of guarantees will try to secure auctions. However, given the unpatched Croatian imagination that banks will be prevented from agreeing in advance on the amount of interest, but also on some other crucial conditions. The question also arises, will the company's compensation for state guarantees, which is prescribed in Article 14 of this legislative proposal "eat" the positive effects of lower interest rates on approved loans. So these are all questions that no answers have been offered in this legislative proposal, but we want to believe that good answers will give the implementing rules in compliance with the proposals of these today’s debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47041	Thank you. We have two replicas. She is the first member of parliament, Zeljka Antunovic, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47042	Thank you. counterpart Jelas mentioned that the government has denied the crisis and recession, and that entrepreneurs have shifted the consequences of the crisis to workers. However, counterpart Jelash did not just deny the recession, and the government was a problem created by problems in the economy and reduced revenues in the budget and significantly shifted to entrepreneurs and citizens. I will remind you once again that new taxes have been introduced and a harachus has been introduced and the VAT rate has been increased, which has significantly burdened citizens as well as the economy. And another thing, instead of saving what we've been hearing about for a year, there's nothing real savings can be recognized for. On the contrary, in some ministries a particularly large vehicle contingent was purchased in the past year. We know that there are activities in which cars are needed, and that serves the purpose. However, 40 of the most expensive categories, with the most sophisticated equipment and the most luxurious, were purchased in a 700 car contingent. Today they are beautifully parked in the courtyards and hidden from being seen by the public. Here is what is the problem of both the Croatian government and what creates a problem for the Croatian economy, because the Croatian government cannot relieve the economy because they continue to waste it with pride and irresponsibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47043	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47044	That's right, co-worker. Neighbouring countries have reduced tax duties precisely for reasons to increase demand and consumption and to grow domestic gross product. In this sense, Croatia is acting upside down, I will say picturesquely as Antuntun.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47045	Thank you. We've got another replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47046	Thank you very much. You said that you were afraid that a lot of the effects of this measure would end up in the profits of banks, with interest rates or this difference from the means to be released by the release of the CNB reserve will be placed on the market at 6.7.8% and on the other hand, because the Croatian National Bank pays 0.75 differences that banks will make profit and that it would be bad for the banks to make a single benefit of that story in the whole process. I agree with you, but it could have been very easy to avoid. So it had to be done the following way, the state was supposed to secure the money and place that money through HBOR. It means its money whether to use certain savings in the budget and then to capitalise on HBOR or whether the CNB could use those money that Croatian banks hold as a mandatory reserve to buy money, to buy government bonds, and thus the state would come up with funds and then place it through HBOR on the market. I think the measure is much more adequate today in Croatia and much more effective. At that time, the interest rate could be 4% and in some ways this fund of money, and perhaps through the CNB it could get 4.5 billion and that there were certain savings at that level another 5 billion, 10 billion kunas of such money to be placed through HBOR and helped the Croatian economy. Then the interest rates of Croatian banks would probably be lower because banks with so much money the state would offer through HBOR would be forced to reduce its interest rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47047	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47048	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. Yes, it was one of the strong SDP proposals, so the SDP club was the capitalisation of HBOR. Unfortunately, that's not what the government has adopted, it's done in a different way, and I am again expressing my concern that in this situation and under this law, unfortunately, it will again profit banks and that entrepreneurs will make a bigger end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47049	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Kovacevic is coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47050	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. In fact, here we are today seen through this debate. No one has the illusion that this law will solve all economic problems and that we will deal with it from the economic crisis, recession and that the situation will therefore be resolved in an economic sense. In fact, this law is a major contribution and the establishment of this guarantee fund is a major contribution to our economy, I believe, because of the structure that will be placed on this means that it will certainly help and that it will be in some way new momentum and investment and economic and that all these measures will finally result in an increase in jobs. That it is a good bill, that it is good measures for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to get out of the economic crisis and that, as far as I have seen from the opposition debate, the opposition will also support this law. It is certain that the crisis itself, especially this financial crisis, has affected two important things that are important for the economy, which is the first time we had a lack of capital. So the lack of money in the capital market which was a particular problem for entrepreneurs. And the other problem was about the increase in interest, which means the price of that capital. So these are two key problems that have begun to manifest in this financial crisis. They have come to Croatia as problems before, looking at global scales than the economic crisis itself, which was manifested in reducing investment and reducing employment. Therefore, these two key problems are the lack of money in the capital market but also the price of that money, or the amount of interest on these loans, which are certainly the problems that, by setting up this guarantee fund, will be mitigated and reduced and when we look at the economics for some and final solution. Why it's important to inject money into the economic system. First of all, this should be a cover for new investments and investment guarantees new economic activities and new employment. And that's what's part of the government policy of the Republic of Croatia, so fight for every job. It is precisely by establishing this guarantee fund that we are making assumptions that we are going into this most difficult battle at the moment of the Croatian economy in order to maintain the level of employment and create new jobs. When we discussed the crisis here, I think we all agree on it. So there are problems and we can say the biggest part of the problem in the Croatian economy that has arisen as a result of the global crisis, but we also agree that this crisis is global and its reflection on the Croatian economy has affected all those structural and long-term problems in the Croatian economy to surface. Unfortunately, there's always a crisis when there are no problems that are that we don't go through this political dictionary pushed under the carpet, no one pushed them, they're simply structural. There are also the consequences of the war, and the consequences of the transition, and the consequences of the system that we inherited, a lot of things have accumulated here. However, it is clear that in these times of crisis, such problems have surfaced. As the manifesto should not be overrepeated statistics from the fall in personal consumption, investment consumption, drop in exports, drop in imports, especially the problem of decline in imports where imports of capital products are reduced, so those who need to re-enter some new investments, which go into investment consumption that should be a new stopper in the economy, a decline in industrial production, retail trade, etc. But what is certainly one of the biggest problems is to increase unemployment, citizens' standards and then in some closed circle and reduce consumption, which again has an absolute impact on the economy. When compared in 2009 and 2010, and if we are talking about the extent of the crisis, we should surely say that the consequences of the crisis were most escalated in late 2009 and that they are now continuing in this first part of 2010 because it is certain that part of the economy was still living in 2009 on arrangements and contracts from 2008 when there was no crisis, that they were living in part and on supplies and that the real escalation of the crisis was in the last quarter of 2009 and that now it was time to activate and take such negative measures and to end such a negative trend and to stop this downward path, that it would be stagnating for at least one time and then to start leaving the crisis. It has been mentioned several times in the debate that this is the first move by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to address the problem of the economic crisis. And clearly that's absolutely not true. So, last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we can divide this into monetary and fiscal power, introduce different measures, make different moves to stabilise the country's monetary system, to stabilise state finances. Even then, when we talk about those politically negative moves that the government had to take clearly in its own, in a way, political responsibility that was not with sympathy accepted in public, as is the crisis tax, as is the increase in VAT, etc. All of this was combined with austerity measures and with 7 billion savings means reducing state spending in two rebalancing, all of which was targeted to stabilise state finances. If it hadn't been done, we'd have a system failure. We today, however difficult the crisis was, can't talk about not paying our pensions in time, not paying our salaries in state and public services in time, not paying for various social benefits, fees, etc. So all of this despite this severe crisis was settled, but clear assumptions had to be made to stabilise the state budget and state finances. The monetary measures that preceded this programme were directed towards the banking system. We also reduced the bank's mandatory reserves on two occasions, which means that we released some of the capital that can be placed and also went with an increase in the secured savings roles where we may have prevented the worst scenario, and that people end up in rows on counters and that that means both death and the end of the banking system. So in these two directions monetary and fiscal policies were still active last year. It should also be said that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the last three years over it we have placed around 10 billion kuna and when looking at the structure of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development programme were mostly directed towards exporters, which is for our small country, so it is no problem for large countries, but for the economy of small countries such as Croatia it is extremely important to keep, preserve and increase exports. And there is a Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development that has done its job. There is statistics that the profits of the company that received these loans from HBOR in 2008 increased by 15%. It is therefore good that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is involved in the implementation of this programme. And just once again to comment on this part that's been put as some kind of doubt, as some kind of problem, which is that loans are going to be received on some kind of political line, by clienteleism, which certainly should be said to our economies and the public that it's not true. Why? Because the mechanism is so designed that politics cannot interfere. The adoption of sublegislative acts concludes the role of policy in granting these loans. All after that are taken over by banks that will be first publicly bid and taken over by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Therefore, only by banking criteria will credit be obtained, and where the state is giving 50% of the participation means in guarantees because we know that credits are not always chargeable, there are always risks. And if companies get into trouble and I can't repay loans, then part of that risk is shared by the banks, but in this case, the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47051	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47052	You're telling your colleague that we need to cut the downward trajectory, and that's true. However, this will only be achieved if the government ceases to peel both the economy and the citizens with taxes. Namely, the latest research that has just been published and this study of the independent Croatian Deloitte and its foreign offices, as well as a number of other research, shows that Croatian citizens are well-recorded in filling the state register with taxes and contributions. We pay taxes like we're super rich and that's what we warn not only us but experts, which is what craftsmen and economics warn you of. That this is the first and most important measure, that you don't need to help them just don't take that away from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47053	Thank you. The answer is not a replica, the esteemed representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47054	Here's a quick answer. We all agree that the burden on the economy is large, but perhaps greater than the countries in the environment. But what should also not be disturbed with the mind, that social giving and different rights in the Republic of Croatia are much greater than in those countries. And also when we talk about certain obligations of our budget and certain payments and specificities that do not have other countries, which is what we still pay today, unfortunately from the title of the war we have suffered, war damages etc. Therefore, there are these givings where the burden on the economy is, but we cannot simply escape from the historical moment or from what has been happening in these areas and the fact that we are unfortunately paying for part of the war damage today. Whether it's through pensions, whether it's through different benefits, whether it's through and day-to-day recovery of war damage, etc. So I think these things should be ratiod. No one is happy about it, but they need to be ratiod and in some ways be realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47055	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47056	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you mentioned several problems that occurred in 2009 and pointed out among them a lack of capital on the market and directly touched the problem that everyone in Croatia, apart from the authorities, agreed on, is public spending. You will remember that in early 2009, it was the state that pulled the most money from the capital market and it's not really clear to me, and here you point to this problem, perhaps not directly but indirectly, which is why all of us, as a cat around hot porridge, are going when we talk about public spending, especially you from HDZ. The fact is that this economy now has the strength of that Croatian economy in 2006. We fell last year 6 and some percent, so we'll probably be 2 and some percent this year and we'll be back in 2006. Then the budget was 95 billion kuna. Now it's $117 billion. We spend 22 billion kunas through the budget more, and the economy has the strength of the one that was in 2006 and this is a fundamental problem and it needs to be talked about openly. And that's why when you point out this lack of capital problem you're talking about exactly what I'm talking about right now, too much public spending.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47057	Thank you. I'd like an esteemed representative to stop playing cameraman. And now the reply to the replica, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47058	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I think we all agree that public spending should be continuously monitored and reduced. However, we also cannot ignore the fact that last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or this Parliament, twice brought budget rebalancing, which means that we went to a reduction in state spending by around 7 billion kuna. What's the fact that when you look at the structure of the Croatian budget, it's that somewhere around 90% here I have exactly written 87.12% of the budget expenditure is given. What does that mean? That it's a legal obligation that we as a state must fulfill. So, they're about wages, pensions, different social benefits. So it's like a legal obligation. Last year, on behalf of the reduction in state spending, we went with a dozen measures, and so it went to a 20% reduction in debt salaries. Preferred pensions, free textbooks, free transportation of students, prohibited car purchase, ban on employment in the state administration, or state services, reduction of wages in public enterprises, savings plans and rationalisation in public enterprises, etc. etc. So it went with a series of measures where it was trying to hit this part of which citizens recognise as a luxury as irrational spending. So that part went to a maximum reduction, to a reduction in wages, etc. But I say, in the Croatian budget, the structure is such that about 90% of things are legal and that very little room to go to even greater savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47059	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47060	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try not to repeat it in relation to already said, but I'd start with one question to all of us. Namely, colleagues and colleagues who we miss to convince our citizens today that this is a good initiative. We're missing one systematic approach first of all. This, this guarantee fund is a fund for economic recovery and development. So the recovery would be, in the recovery, we probably think about anti-recession measures, and then the development of how we will link these measures to the long-term development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. I've heard little or nothing about that whole thing today, you know. There were words to be late, this or that. I agree, but we can't get the movie back. So let us try to see what we do now. What I also miss very much is an analytical approach. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if you know that Croatia already has a long, long-term development and employment fund. Do you know what the effects of this fund are? How many people have been employed in the last five, six years thanks to this fund's loans? Do we know how much we have increased exports thanks to this fund, because they primarily encourage those economic branches that export their product. I only know that I have directed into this fund a number of people from the Primorje-Gorski County who almost completely export their products and none of them I know have received any kuna help. So obviously, there are interesting criteria, and there is also a reasonable doubt that perhaps even with this new project, we are not completely objective and we do not achieve the goal that we want. And now I would move on to what we haven't discussed much, and that's a question of colleagues and colleagues whether it's all about money when it comes to recovery and development. Here, when I was last in France, they explained to me how the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe works. Those about 5% of the funds they intend to give to someone, who got their trust to spend on their education to work with them. Experts point to potential shortcomings and try to maximum correct this production program to make it truly successful. The bank's failure level credits such production lines and about 2% to 3%. Two to three percent is the level of failure, they recognize that and their guarantee in the banks that follow them is 5%. So double the level of failure and the banks are satisfied. But education, education programs are part of these credit lines. We don't have that anywhere. France, when it wants to encourage the self-employment of young people, then the policy, banks and local, regional community and the economy are agreed and that young people list eighty to 100 products each year which they consider to be the primary in that year, which are missing France to avoid imports and to improve the quality or something to be done to the French economy. You know exactly what that is. Those young people who will start producing one of those 80 or 90 products have particularly privileged, or long-term loans, with a minimum interest rate, etc. The rest go clear to other arches. So you know exactly what the priorities are, what you want to achieve, you know what the strategic goal is at all times in that country. I'll tell you my example. There are no colleagues here, Denon, but he and I were at a stand of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce "Let's Help Sell Croatian Products". I got to sell olive oil with a gentleman who packed his oil nicely and wrote upstairs that it was extra virgin oil. We sell, sell, and talk on the way. And I ask the man who did the analysis and how many free fatty acids he can put it in extra virgin. And he's looking at me. Whatever, what analysis, what analysis. My oil is the best. So, this poor man, no one helped him in front of the Chamber of Commerce, in front of those sitting in those pleasant chairs in the County Department of Economy, in the City Department of Economy to tell him, to help him when we enter the European Union that we must respect certain standards, standards, checks, search of these products. So, you help out no, those logistics don't have those people. They're trying. They do everything they can, I don't blame them. I blame us for taking part in this great process. I'm from Rijeka and two words about shipbuilding. I've been following the fate of shipbuilding for ten years now, and what has the government done in the last 10 years? She was covering for what? Losses, and helped to keep the shipbuilding alive. And she was changing directors, nothing else. I'm a doctor and when I look over there and compare South Korea as maybe a good example. And 15 years ago, there was a reduction in ship orders. So Hyundai is a shipyard, what could they do? Either fire part of the workers or expand the production program. They decided on this second and today we recognize them as car manufacturers. But you can very well order a boat in that shipyard still. Second example, Samsung. We all recognize them for what? On monitors, computers, cell phones. No, it's the original factory that still produces boat and port cranes today. But the same problem, the demand went down, they expanded their program. They didn't have to fire an older generation, but they hired their children, their grandchildren. We have no attempt to make such a thing with shipbuilding. At our place, I've been asking you colleagues and colleagues, we've made hundreds of miles of highways in the last 10 years. How many of our shipyards participated, with how many kilos of iron in what they're called, iron on the side, arches, bridges, etc.? How many of our shipyards have actually done their work? No, they didn't do anything. It's all imports, imports and imports. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, are not all about money, should be organised and co-ordinated and innovated, and there should be much more work to be done than we do. I'll support this fund, but he's not, we don't have a systematic approach and I don't see him in the overall picture of the recovery and development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47061	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is Honorable Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47062	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You mentioned your colleague Doric about the education of the manufacturer, you cited an example of olive oil. I think what it says is that the needs, however, are certainly the market's looking for quality. It is the quality that is important for the sale of products. However, I must say, you probably didn't get to know HGK, especially us in Osijek when I was working, so I was the one who promoted, or began to evaluate honey. This particular section showed that people should be given opportunities and knowledge because there were cases that brought this honey into these jars that had previously been unacquainted with cucumbers, etc., a bit just washed and normally that in this way such a product was not quality because it was already felt by some other products, quality to go to the outside market. That is why, and through this way, this guarantee fund, etc., needs to be stimulated by the quality of this production. It is necessary to stimulate products that will be able to go to the market and which can be both for internal and external markets of quality. Because self-production, or just giving money into a product that won't be able to place, is certainly a waste of money, and it's not what we want through and this is how we stimulate production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47063	Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47064	I thank my colleague for your intervention, thank you for your concern and help in this way to improve the clear quality of one product. I chose olive oil even though we have probably made the biggest shift in this area in the last 15 years regarding any other food product, but by this example I just wanted to point to an unconstitutional approach. If it can happen that a man exposes his goods, and he has no idea what it is, what we're talking about, I helped him, too. I referred him to the lab that would do this to him, I referred him to the financiers who would help him cover those tests, etc., but it's not entirely my mission or yours. This must be a systematic approach, and that is why I advocate that we all try to help in this process together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47065	Another replica, Honorary Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47066	Thank you very much. You mentioned a systematic approach to solving the problem. In addition, this measure proposed also requires a systematic approach, and it means that other measures are being taken in other economic operators that will contribute to the more effective impact of this measure. So let's say the expectations are that the interest rates are going to go down on these newly-placed loans. And it's certainly realistic to expect, but even more systematic access should do everything to get banks down and interest rates, passive interest rates to deposits that are already over 7%. Because it creates a huge cost to them, it's even economically harmful to the whole society, but also to the bank itself, but those costs go to those users who regularly repay their loans and therefore cannot reduce interest rates to newly placed funds. But that's what banks do consciously because those privileged with billions still pay them, for example, at one billion dollars worth of 70 million kuna in a year. And by doing that, he's incapacitating those who need money. But they're all doing it because they can make up for it because they're transferring costs to the ones that work neatly. New fees are being introduced, for example, the Internet Business Package has been collected monthly for 20 kn. A million subscribers 100, 200 million kunas. Well then for... insurance, for charging a SIM card fee 4 thousand kn per year is introduced to every entrepreneur. For the purpose of keeping an account 5 kn. Imagine there's only one bank million bills on him. These are all new incomes without any new costs. Therefore, there is a need to work systematically and in this area to make it more efficient to reduce interest rates for newly-placed funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47067	Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47068	You have now touched only one segment of this systemic problem again, the financial one. I think I could also ask you now if it's systematic, if we let the banks decide tomorrow what are the priority economic projects they're going to encourage? You know, I don't see that Chamber of Commerce, I don't see politics and its direct influence through the development strategy, through priorities. I mentioned French companies because the French state is behind those 89, 90 projects, and they think it's important and that they solve it in a year, two, three days of those problems of the acute economy. I've never felt this joint attempt on our part of all those who need to participate in this process to put their heads together and come up with the best solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47069	And the third replica, the honourable representative. Just a moment to get your word. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, colleague Doric.]] Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned Doric in your discussion and wondered in some way how much domestic iron was installed into Croatian roads that had been built and finished all these years and that I absolutely agreed with, that little or nothing had been built in, that the import lobby had prevailed and that in some way Croatian ironworks had no use for these investments. Absolutely all countries of the world so Croatia should be based on the fight against recession to protect its own production. Now look at the situation in Germany and the European Union, all countries protect domestic production, and sometimes knowingly buy more expensive goods and services to encourage domestic economy, domestic industry. The Croatian government adopted a proposal last year, I would say, because these measures did not fully resuscitate, ten anti-recession measures and the ninth measure was to strengthen the control of imports, so popularly called the control measure... goods, unfortunately we have not seen anything since Croatia still has a major import deficit over exports, i.e. it still has an import-dependent economy. We should and in these recession times in particular encourage domestic production, so I say sometimes when these goods and services are more expensive, the comment of fellow Lucic, the wood industry, the state institutions of the Ministry should buy furniture exclusively in these times than domestic furniture manufacturers. Then we wouldn't be on our knees producers, and we don't keep importing cheap furniture that's most often done by our wood that's exported out cheaply and imports more expensive furniture.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47071	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47072	I agree with you colleagues, I have listed shipbuilding only as an example where perhaps the best way to show how much coordination is missing and by the state in terms of various businesses and companies that the state is essentially running is if there is no coordination or attempt at coordination between them, then what are we talking about here today?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47073	Thank you. This concludes the morning session, continues at 3:00 with the session. It is next, dear colleague Zlatko Koračević. We're moving on with the session. There's not much of us. It is up to the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević with an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47075	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This bill of law has been really said today. There have been constructive suggestions for remarks, there have been and can be free to tell empty stories, but in any case we have one legislative proposal that we will almost certainly all support, because it is doing very concrete support to the economy, the fallen economy. And it is certain that the effects would be much greater if that measure were to go before, because there is a folk proverb, "If you help me in time, you help me twice." In this case, the double aid criterion is missing, as no specific conditions should be met. The financial crisis itself created them, but the fact is that we had potential through the untapped potential of HAMAG, we have potential in the property guarantee potential, and we could put the whole story together. But it was waiting, looking for possible solutions. The Croatian People's Party is the proposal for a solution with a elaborated system that is almost identical to this proposal, but I repeat almost identical, this was proposed several months ago. And the fact is that one of the initiatives launched by the Croatian National Bank at the time she said that she had recognized the depth of our problems is, unfortunately, the same with one time-out, when she conditioned a placement with very specific guarantees or guarantees that this placement would go right to companies that are in difficulty and who need such support. Unfortunately, it was an initiative two years ago, just from fellow Maric, to free banks from reserve, to reduce reserve levels just as they were creating readiness for already at that time very clear indications of a shock for the economy. At that point, however, the Croatian National Bank welcomed in a completely different way, in a completely different way than this initiative that was launched recently and behind which initiative was put into effect by such a bill. In fact, I also said that on the Committee on Finance, I have several principled remarks. One of them is the lack of an example that stems from the fact that we do not have a clear economic development strategy, that we do not have defined economic branches by various criteria. I just want to say one thing today, and that's regional development. We don't have criteria for individual economic branches that need real help, and I mean if we went to target groups to always make the effects of this project much stronger, because it's not the same support of hundreds, 200 companies, or when it's about 300, 400 or 500 companies, especially when they're targeted. Because today we are talking about supporting companies whose problems have arisen from the global economic crisis. However, we are not talking at all today about the problems of our companies that have gone into trouble due to monetary policy and monetary losses. And first of all, there's the wood industry, the textiles and the leather industry. Industrys that are mainly linked to regions lagging behind in regional development. Another of my comments is and I propose to the Croatian Government and the Government that in the next step, and I am quite sure that this law will also experience changes, that time will be adapted, that the very sure behaviour of the banks that have been spoken of today will simply cause the need for a change or amendment of this legislative proposal to be installed or to determine one quota that will be directed towards the county... agencies. Because practice shows that county guarantee agencies have a factor of one to five, they prove to be an extremely good solution for primarily small businessmen, above all for craftsmen. And especially what's important at the county level is they have direct communication with these people and have the best insight into the matter and have the best view of things. They have the best view of the problems and the way of the solution, unlike all these major banks, in which this part of the economy will certainly not enter because it will not have the opportunity to communicate with banks that will appear at the Croatian Bank's auction to rebuild and develop and receive this guarantee quota that it will receive. And finally, I fully support the misunderstandings and better said, and not without reason the comments of my colleague Marić when he spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club, and they refer to the behaviour of the banks in this project. And it concerns a possible deal on interest rates. In fact, it's very easy for six of the biggest bankers to hold 90% of the financial market,...to sit down for lunch and agree on what interest is. Knowing certain actions, the activities of our banks so far have been expected to do something about this project. And not to list all the things that my colleague Maric said very nicely. However, there is one thing I disagree with my colleague Maric, which I call banks to social responsibility. Social responsibility is one general category that certainly has its own value and attitude and system. However, in order to ensure that this social responsibility is present at the banks and that this entire system is real, that the entire system will benefit the one that we are planning and that ultimately we are bringing this legislative proposal I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has both the space and the obligation to control this social responsibility of our banking sector and that the effects of this bill ultimately give the support that they are realistically expecting, the support that we have long ago been able to give to our particular economy, but also with this proposal if and with this guarantee fund, if we are going to allow it to do something that I am not expecting to repeat, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the greatest opportunity and obligation to control and react to this whole process at the moment when it is necessary. In that case, too, this law will have its purpose and the entire action towards the economy will give its measures. In any case, I personally support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47076	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47077	Thank you very much. A member of the Croatian Democratic Community, not the Croatian People's Community, is a small lapus. You said you agree with everything I've said except for one, which is that we shouldn't call for social responsibility, that social responsibility should be regulated by law. The law cannot regulate the social responsibility of any individual or any institution anywhere. Social responsibility is a component of each institution and a personal characteristic of each individual. They can't be legally imposed. They must be a reflection of the social climate and I call for such a social climate to change within the banking system to become socially responsible. Thank you very much for pointing out that I was two years ago to avoid economic shocks and to apply the minimum reserve rate to reduce the impact of the financial crisis, which is later here and reached after these instruments. I'm glad it matured so just two years later at the central bank but it's probably because I'm not a supporter of the neoliberalist economy. I am not in favour of Milton's economy or of total freedom of the market because there is no perfect market in the world or national economy, it always takes the influence of the state to correct these market defects and failures. Maybe I'm an idealist economist, maybe I'm a dreamer, but that's why dreamers see dawn before others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47078	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47079	Dear Marić, I fully agree with you that social responsibility is one category that matures, which is a reflection and state of society, a reflection of the character of the individual and a whole series of elements that are a prerequisite for creating this social responsibility and that this is one process that we all strive for and we all wish for. However, here, specifically when we talk about the banking sector in the Republic of Croatia, I fully agree with you that the law cannot determine social responsibility but the Government of the Republic of Croatia has mechanisms through which mechanisms in the banking sector can accelerate the maturation of their social responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47080	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47081	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, thank everyone for the whole morning and early afternoon debate, comments, suggestions. I have to show great satisfaction so what we have heard is that we are giving full support to this and the law, but I would also tell the whole package of measures and the model of financing measures for economic recovery and development. Many of you have mentioned that this is the right measure and can absolutely agree with that. The only thing I may not agree with is a regular number ahead of that real measure. We don't really think that this is the first measure that the government has done, but that the government has done many other measures that have preceded it and that have actually been a prerequisite for us to be able to get into a situation that I have initially said that we can start with a measure of this kind whose financial amounts are not negligible, but they are very important. When I say that the government has taken other measures, then I should surely go back to what I said during the morning. So, if we look at the situation 11 months ago, overnight disarmament, or overnight bank lending, interest rate over 30%, which is a very clear indicator and signal of what liquidity was at that time, so a year ago. Today, we can say that banks have over 4 billion kunas that account for the Croatian National Bank at a very low interest rate of below 1%, which means that this liquidity is definitely where and where improvements are made, and there are also certain additional reserves, above all at the level of the banking system at the Croatian National Bank, so these mandatory reserves. Yesterday, the Council of the Croatian National Bank made a decision on the downturn by one percentage point, releasing about 3 billion kuna into the system and of course we heard that there is a possibility and we know that there is a possibility for further layoffs. What I should certainly say is, therefore, all of these measures done over the past 15 months on the stability of the financial system and I will, of course, be particularly in front of the Ministry of Finance, especially in front of the Government, particularly to apostrophe and the measures we have taken in terms of preserving the stability of public finances, so how many times have we stressed that it was not easy to sit or stand behind this speaker and propose some unpopular moves but all of them were somehow focused on preserving that stability. We heard during the morning comparisons with other countries. Both Slovenia and one Germany, and some other members of the European Union, the European Monetary Union must have had a place where and where larger manoeuvres and some other sources of funding could be used. However, it should be reiterated that Croatia does this all on its own without any great help from outside, or we have this model in front of us. As far as my closing words are concerned, let me briefly look back on this particular law, but to put it in context of this broader debate, or the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, let me repeat once again that these two models are indeed very clear intent and intensity that a satisfactory level of liquidity in the banking system or in the financial system is poured over and passed into the real sector in an economy where these funds are actually most needed and which has the ability and power to actually fertilise these funds, and of course the economy, and then all individuals certainly profit from it. As we have defined it, as we have set up a model for co-financing of credit ratings where business banks and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development operate. It is a numerical amount, so we heard yesterday that mandatory reserves were released, or reduced by 1% point according to the agreement and according to the principle, that is, the agreement reached with both the Croatian National Bank and the banks, 2/3 of that amount is headed towards the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So, assuming that all banks, and I call them this way of course, we held talks with the seven largest Croatian business banks, but of course all other banks received a very clear message and invitation to participate in this whole process, were invited of course to go with the placement. 2/3 of these redundancies towards HBOR on the assumption that they will all participate, that is an amount of 2 billion kuna. According to the model as proposed by us, that means it's a credit potential of at least six billion kuna. On the other hand, we've heard this morning about this model B. The law we discussed today, the credit potential in terms of being fully exploited is moving between a minimum of 4 to even 8 billion kuna. I'm not saying these figures for reasons that I would now create some euphoria in terms of large numbers but simply show and actually send a clear signal that as far as the source of the funds is concerned, however, what is the key thing and that is the use of these funds. And that is why you, too, have taken a good look at and touched these criteria in the course of the debate, but I think it should be said very clearly that the Government is on this very point and with this intention and went into creating this framework, in creating and defining the rules of the game that everyone should act and act exclusively according to market principles. So what we heard earlier, so in no case are given to banks, business banks in the Republic of Croatia freed hands, but in fact, very clearly defined rules of conduct for them, and, of course, we expect a full effect on the economy. The interest rate is certainly one of the variables that occupys all of us and all of these efforts, all of these measures, that is, the instruments we have placed and installed in this law and which we will put into sublegal acts will surely be directed towards achieving as favourable conditions as possible. Or what we were saying about certain activities, certain sectors of the economy, and the overall economy are certain that the lower interest rate is actually more favourable in the sense that they can also generate these values, added values that will also manage to repay that debt credit, but of course also create the preconditions that we said not only for recovery but also for further development. Let me also say, therefore, as far as further implementation itself is concerned, so after this law, there is still an additional job in defining first of all the rules of the game to act on the so-called team. public competitions or auctions. Once again, I will mention and say that, as far as Croatia and our experience are concerned, it is indeed a new and novelty for all of us, and we can expect that if certain upgrades, adjustments, or improvements are needed, can happen. We are trying and we want to actually try to achieve at these auctions the best interest of business banks, that this money is really transferred and placed towards the economy as quickly as possible, and that this economy is really willing to use that money. We also heard in this morning's debate, sure that within this shortest possible time, we can expect the highest demand for the economy, above all, for these craftsmen, and according to craftsmanship, it is certainly the answer to your question, or your suggestions, that certain debts should be regulated towards workers and suppliers, and of course you saw in the law itself and the bill of law, of course also to the state. Thank you very much again for all the comments and suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47082	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47083	Seven. Final proposal of the Act on the Guarantee Fund for the Economic Fund for Economic Recovery and Development. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 505. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by legislator Goran Maric and representative Gordana Sobol. I'd like Mr. Zdravko Maric's representative of the Secretary of State to make a statement on the amendments. First Legislative Committee on Article 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47084	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47085	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. On Article 16 second?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47086	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47087	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 3 to Article 19?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47088	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47089	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And Mr. Goran Maric, the representative who proposed two amendments. First amendment to Article 8?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47090	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47091	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And Amendment 2 to Article 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47092	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47093	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And representatives of Gordana Sobol. First, Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47094	It's unacceptable. The reason is that this provision is already contained in the text of the law itself as well as in general in the measures proposed by the Government as we heard yesterday during the debate. In addition to the fact that the government naturally agrees essentially that these funding models are aimed at preserving existing and creating new jobs. However, it should also be said that such an expression could create difficulties in evaluating the supply of certain banks in terms of the relationship between quantitative criteria and monitoring their implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47095	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47096	Well, I have to say, of course, I'm not satisfied with your argument because you didn't say where it was in the law and what the law's intensity is is that it has a certain advantage in giving state guarantees to those companies that will guarantee in some way that it will retain existing employment or not. We can talk about some general wishes, but I want to warn the basic intensity was, I think five union centres are on the trail of this either way, so they don't give guarantees to those companies that will eventually get those guarantees and then they'll fire a part of the workers tomorrow. Why did I warn you that? Because something like this is happening to us already in other things where the state is helping, say, state aid. I'm not going to explain much now, I'm going to talk about it when it comes to the procedures of the annual state aid report where, for example, it's now been found that in the textile industry, certain companies were given state support, and after that, they fired workers. And in this sense, this proposal went, so to find a way to take advantage of those projects, those companies, entrepreneurs who will guarantee existing employment or guarantee and create new jobs by obtaining guarantees. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47097	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment of the same agent to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47098	It is also not accepted that what you have put as an amendment will be prescribed by a regulation, I can immediately say this eight-day period for the record, or the submission of a report to the Ministry of Finance, we believe the regulation could be a little bit more rigorous, shorten that deadline, but it should also be very open and say that the auctions that will be carried out and the experiences that we will have over them will be, in fact, for all of us in some way, a certain additional lesson, so we have left this possibility to regulate the regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47099	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47100	So I think you could accept this little improvement because in that article, you are talking about the fact that a report will be given and that it will be monitored and the way guarantees are used, etc. Well, it wouldn't really hurt if you gave this to me that it would be announced within eight days of the bailing day. I think that would certainly contribute to the transparency of the process itself. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47101	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee Fund for Economic Recovery and Development. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority vote with 106 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47102	We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. This is - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 507 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, esteemed Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47103	We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. This is - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 507 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, esteemed Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47104	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47105	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. Croatia is a maritime country in which a number of businesses live out of nauticalism. According to available statistics due to the global crisis and the general decline in consumption in the first half of 2009 orders for the construction of boats fell by about 70%. The additional tax burden defined by the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft further reduced orders for the construction and sale of boats. So far, the law in the same category has classified boats of three metres and large luxury yachts, which almost completely stopped the sale. Homely small shipyards were found in a very difficult situation literally ahead of bankruptcy. Due to the huge decline in sales, 102 small shipyards were directly found with about two and a half thousand jobs, and indirect damage suffered by suppliers, co-operatives, manufacturers of motors and equipment, repairers, tourist workers, Leasing companies, and almost all from the nautical business. Representatives of small shipbuilding organisations have repeatedly commented and warned that the specific tax on certain vessels has increased up to 12 times, thus jeopardising their survival as well as the survival of the accompanying industries. The government of the Republic of Croatia reacted correctly to the emerging situation, and that is why we have before us today these amendments to the law. Therefore, an analysis of the impact of the existing law and the basis of the Customs Administration data on the collected excise duties and the basis of data from port captains on newly registered ships and yachts, and the basis of information available to representatives of the associations mentioned. A further opinion of the profession and the initiative of the Croatian Nautical Production Association, the Small Shipbuilding Association at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Small Shipbuilding Clusters was requested after the analysis, and a joint draft amending the law was drawn up. When making the proposed amendments to the law, it was taken into account the boats used by the coastal and island populations in transport for their own purposes, which cannot be classified as luxury to the greatest extent possible. The strategy for the development of nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009 to 2019 was also taken into account, where one of the objectives of increasing the production of water facilities for nautical tourism in Croatian shipyards is the development of nautical tourism clusters. In this proposal, amending and supplementing the law separates specific taxes on private cars and motorcycles from specific taxes on vessels and aircraft with the introduction of new price classes with a different level of special tax. This achieves a higher level of taxation of economically strong taxpayers. Therefore, these amendments and additions propose a new level of special taxes on vessels and aircraft while the level of special taxes on passenger cars and motorcycles does not change. Special taxes on vessels and aircraft will continue to be paid according to their value, but new price classes have also been introduced with a different level of special tax compared to passenger cars and motorcycles. Therefore, in other words, that amendment means that buyers of more expensive vessels or aircraft will pay more taxes both in relative and absolute amounts than the buyers of a vessel or aircraft which cannot be classified under luxury because of the price. That is why the reason for the amendment and addition of the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft is primarily economical and aims to increase the tax burden of economically strong taxpayers, and to encourage the development of small shipbuilding in Croatia. On the basis of this, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vessels and aircraft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47106	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47107	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I won't agree with any of what's been said so far. In fact, what I'm about to stand up to is what we've just heard. First, colleagues and colleagues, it is certainly commendable to try to help small shipbuilding. It's a shipbuilding that applies to our shipyards, to our builders, to the sale of these boats on our market. But at the same time, we have one big prank. First of all, we don't have to talk about it in a wide and broad way. But the boats are related to the same thing that happened on the market with both cars and real estate and everything else. But since this is about our product, we absolutely accept any attempt to save small shipbuilding. However, colleagues and colleagues, it is not good if, as a result of attempts to save small shipbuilding, special taxes on yachts, on helicopters, on planes are drastically reduced. Secretary of State, take a pen, and put one plane worth a million euros on paper. Put them on paper, and you'll see that according to the current proposal, and that's the import clear, the import vessel, we don't have them with us, it refers to both helicopters and yachts. It's all getting drastically cheaper. On one plane or yacht worth a million euros, you will now have a reduction in the special tax, so far it has been 3.3 million kuna per million euros, now it is only one million kuna. The higher the value of yachts or aircraft is clearly reduced by a drastically special tax. So we guess who? We're drastically pleasing the tycoons. And that's absolutely unacceptable for us at the HNS club. For this reason, your argument on the first page, which states that: "the above-mentioned amendment and supplementation will achieve a higher level of taxation of economically strong taxpayers" means that customers of expensive vessels and aircraft will bear a higher tax burden in relative and absolute terms. It's completely incorrect! It's not true, it's incorrect. Furthermore, on page 2, we have a sentence: "the law will not be of any effect on the revenues of the state budget on this basis." I just told you what it means when it comes to the yachts that we import, which means when it comes to helicopters that we import, which means when it comes to aircraft that we import. We'll certainly be damaged. However, another brilliant sentence: "All yachts and part of boats are registered to carry out economic activity and are thus exempt from paying a special tax." Imagine colleagues and colleagues all yachts are registered for economic activity. Which just means that the tax administration doesn't have adequate mechanisms to control and correct the situation we have on the ground. It's absolutely unacceptable for us. And such a finding here in such an explanation is indeed regrettable that you offer it to us in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, it is also interesting to get on the page. The second thing on top of it is a very interesting thing. Look, we last changed this law in August last year. So, 5mm, and here is the amendment and addition of the August law last year is contrary to the goals of the development strategy for nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2019, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its meeting of November 2008. Thus, in 2008, the government adopted a strategy for developing nautical tourism, a year later forgetting the strategy, changed the law against the interests of the strategy. After five months. she remembered that it was not in line with the strategy and we are re-amending that same law. I ask you colleagues and colleagues how much we help these economic branches and nautical tourism when we've changed this same law eight times in 10 years? It's ridiculous, it's unserious, it's unstable, it's incorrect according to one economic branch and the HNS club will certainly not be able to support such changes of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47108	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary State Secretary, the esteemed Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47109	Thank you very much. Here's just a brief answer to the honourable representative for interpreting certain sentences and the very reasoning and so on. So, what I said in the introduction is, in no way does the Government of the Republic of Croatia want to please anyone with its changes, first of all, as you have told the tycoons or the ines that buy the expensive whether the boats, whether the vessels, whether or not the planes. However, the fact is that according to the changes we made in summer, so for intervention, I would say suggestion and comments, the shipbuilding industry above all, so we decided on this move for the reason that we believe that we can help them, or further stimulate the production of these small vessels. But also do not forget that in Croatia there is production of small or smaller aircraft that are mainly used for sports and recreation purposes. Also, what you have now said about interpreting this only existing law and this and the previous amendments, and in fact, the law in its original pronunciation releases the payment of a special tax if vessels and aircraft are intended for economic services, i.e. economic purposes. As for your finding that it is incorrect in the explanation that more expensive, i.e. buyers of more expensive vessels and aircraft pay both relatively and absolutely more taxes, that is correct. Because you can very easily apply the model, i.e. the complete table of the price and tax classes, and see that, starting from, say, the price of a vessel of 125 thousand kuna to, say, 10 million kuna, that the tax burden moves from 5% to 14%. So from the cheapest yacht on which to pay some 6 grand and 250 kuna to, say, a million and 409 thousand kuna. Which means that in absolute terms and relatively, in terms of percentages, significant progress has certainly been achieved in this particular car tax and other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47110	We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47111	Mr. Secretary of State, it's not true you don't want to guess. You may be unconscious. I asked you to take a pen, put a million euros on paper, to calculate how much a special tax will come now and how much boredom it has been. You're very helpful, I agree that we're helping small shipbuilding, but it's a prank to get customers of the most expensive vehicles and aircraft, they pay 3 to 4 times less taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47112	We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's all right at the clubs, sorry clubs. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47113	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, I'm going to speak a little differently. I listened to Mrs. Buterin earlier, and I couldn't believe it was as if this law here today, which is so praised, was not suggested by the government before. Why did we have this law? Because he was supposed to be compensated for that unfortunate 23-percent P.D. But I'm afraid in some parts, even this law here is not the answer. For example. What about 30-metre fishermen? We treat them like yachts, I don't think that's good. However, the fundamental question is who should be responsible today for this law that is still in force and for the damage that we have done to the Croatian state, better said to every citizen of this country individually, and especially to producers of these, let us call them small vessels or small shipbuilding. We have led small shipbuilding almost to bankruptcy, we have led the cooperatives to madness, we have left the budget without money, and sanctions for those who caused it to thousands or hundreds of companies in Croatia, because not only small shipbuilders here have been affected, so you are not carrying any responsibility. I personally believe that this law should be adopted in a large part but to be honest, our shipbuilders of these small vessels are mistaken if they think that after this damage, only by amending the Law, they will be better off the next day. You see, I get these little shipbuilders and they say that in five, six months the law was in effect, they didn't actually sell any ships. And now I'm asking myself a question after all we've got, excise duties have clearly been the one responsible for such a situation whether the amendment of the excise tax law will change anything. I say, gentlemen, they won't. Let's take a look at the climate this judicial or what I call it in this country. In a way, she stopped the investment, these air-conditioning arrests, so I can be more specific, so they can understand me. She also scared the local consumers. Imagine if someone bought a boat or a 10 - foot yacht today, so he would immediately end up in prison. If he doesn't immediately end up in prison, he should end up in jail because no one in this country can explain where he got 200 or 300 thousand euros from Mr. Doric. So I think nothing will change when it comes to small shipbuilding, but there will be another year of stagnation in the section. And because of that and the higher of these companies, many of which are in Istria, I have to say that I am deeply sad because of their business existence, it depends on us both here and their workers and these girls and the boys upstairs at the gallery. I am the only one, in the last or this current hour, to admit late asked a representative question higher than that matter but even that is not important, it is important that Istria, that the Primorje-Gorski County, Zadar, Sibenik, Dubrovnik, etc., has a series of small shipbuilders and this Law I think we had in force, which small shipbuilding decimated, unfortunately for that Law no one will answer. The Parliament was probably unanimous, I think that we were unanimous when we adopted this Excise Act, the one that was in force, why, proposed by the Government, we believed their assessments, we simply had this law assumed in some way on the benches, the advisors had no advisors or they had this one big club, they couldn't follow all the matter, and we actually act by initiative, we raise our hands for something that I don't know how it would work, so no one needs to justify us, but surely on the other hand, the government, the ministries that have a hundred employees and who have to perform all these simulations, someone should because of these laws and call us. The damage that has been done to small shipbuilding in the last 5.6 months and will not recover from it throughout 2010 is simply enormous. Small shipbuilding in 2008 has achieved revenue from one billion kuna, but it will say that it is only one yardr, which, for example, "Oljik" Shipyard delivers to Lichtenstein, but one billion kuna on the other side is 1/5 revenues of large shipbuilding or 1 billion kuna and our small shipbuilding half of Croatia's big shipbuilding without the oil. To be honest, I'm gonna do it again, so I just don't see any recent recovery at least not in 2010, that little shipbuilding. One harmful law of this small shipbuilding one whole activity in the Republic of Croatia, let us not forget that we are a maritime destination or country, has ruined activity in 5 perhaps years, I will not say and do not give God forever, but perhaps in 5 years. To whom now, in these circumstances that rule the land, our small boaters will sell their boats, small yachts, fishing boats, etc. As I said, what if tomorrow this state's attorney came to them, small shipbuilding on the other hand is not only those yachts, but listen to a fishing boat at this point cost 400, 500 and more thousands of euros. Let me see what kind of fisherman it is from that income it generates simply to present or substantiate clean accounts, and clearly it should because that's the only way the country can function. Croatia, as I said, is a maritime country, Croatia has some 1,000km of coastal lines up from Savudrija and down to Dubrovnik, we have about 1300 islands, which is a cliff island, and in 20 years on our Adriatic, we have not built 10 new hotels, we have destroyed almost all the industry on the coast, we are on a good path to close maybe three of the five major Croatian shipyards, we have destroyed the Croatian line, one word of the most beautiful people in the world is probably left without a maritime and future orientation or I don't know what to call it. One word is we're on a good path to destroy that little shipbuilding. And what's happening to us, the Dalmatians are moving to Zagreb, the Istrians are still hanging down, Rijeka is running out of industry, Split is out of jobs, and we are passing laws that I dare say, shame. I have here an e-mail that I received from a company in Istria that literally says that another August 8, 2009 comes into the new Law on Special Taxes, meaning excise duties, which has specifically hit the small shipbuilding sector, the accompanying activities around it, since then the sale of boats has practically stopped. So once again, boats aren't just yachts, they're boats, fishermen, etc., and let's not forget we're marine land. He says further, several craftsmen and businesses care about production or are in a blockade, and the vast majority of others will soon close their plants unless there is a quality change in the law. A similar fate will be achieved by accompanying activities such as repro dealers, equipment, engine installers, electricians, carpenters, wallpapers, repairers etc., etc. What is interesting when it comes to this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Special Tax on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft P.Z. No. 507 is mentioned among other things, meaning as one who was to participate in this debate, Mr. Mladen Barisic. So he's 28. 1. In 2010, he acted as a reporter, I don't see him here, what fate we're about to see, but let's just say it doesn't matter. It's important who in this country played with that little shipbuilding, the one who played with it, and we who raised our hand for such a single law five, six months ago just didn't know what we were doing. What am I saying? We have adopted this law for excise duties on yachts, but in these circumstances I know that no one in this country in due time or very, very rarely will buy some yachts. So it's time to boost consumption, without the same, there's no survival. So I don't know, reason in the head, and let people work, because one policy of egalitarianism, I think it's just going to leave us and our country without income. I am, for example. to return to us as we say local self-government and some things we saw and had arranged according to the Constitution of '74. For years, I claim that we lived best then, everyone could go to work, to a free apartment, health care, etc. But we said we don't want self-management, we want capitalism. Now we have capitalism, but we have these relationships that the elite will have everything, and the worker nothing, that capitalists through conversion have everything, that that craftsman has nothing. We have a situation where the state is getting poor, that we're all selling it out that pensions are what they are, but that was our choice, and I guess that's democracy in the Croatian way. But no matter what, we simply have to take care of it and increase that consumption because the question is, where are we just going to go without it? And as much as I think that the conditions of this law should be accepted by me once again, if someone works that fishing boat of 20, 25 or 30 meters, he doesn't let God be taxed like the one who buys a yacht of 25, 30, or I don't know how many meters. And God forbid our small shipyards or large shipyards have jobs so that they can sell such yachts to either Croatian or any other citizen, provided these sub-distributes the origin of their property. All in all, I'm afraid the law won't make anyone happy overnight, but we just have to get back to those positions from the 7th or when it's the 8th month when we adopted that law today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47114	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Caine, you said the brake was the same as the yacht. You and I know that's not true, but I guess I know what you're thinking. Namely, you and I raised your hand to amend the law in the second half of last year, because then we said that we would no longer tax the length of the cart and the yacht. And we both thought that was the solution. Unfortunately, the government has settled the value categories and everything over 500 thousand kuna has the same tax base, so then you have the right to actually turn out that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47116	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47117	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'd like to correct is the incorrect quote of fellow Caine when he said that people who would buy a yacht today from 200 to 300,000 euros should be shut down. I can't understand that a man who was a candidate for president can say such a single sentence. Mr Kajin, I know today 5 people who have yachts over 20 million euros and who today have claims of 100 to 200 million euros and who regularly report their taxes. So what are you saying? Well, since you're not ashamed to say words like this, you said, and at the same time you said that all of your proletarian sentences hurt us all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47118	Thank you. Who cares about the head, the pill. Correction of the incorrect quote Ivan Hanžek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47119	I must now say that I now have two corrections in one correction and even my esteemed colleague Franjo I must correct because my colleague Cain called for arrests six months ago, and now he would have abolished all the arrests, because it had gone too far. So let him deal with himself. And I appreciate his local patriotism and Adriatico patriotism, but forgive my colleague Kai's shipbuilding exists in Zagreb County, not to go wider and to Krapina-Zagorje County and known. I'm not going to mention the company that I'm not doing a commercial for them, because I have no intention of buying a yacht so there could be no conflict of interest, but it's not convenient to mention names. And it's a strong shipbuilding with representative prized ships. So when it comes to shipbuilding, shipbuilding is not only Istria, Primorje, Dalmatia but half Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47120	Thank you. We have yet another correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of ours, Caine, told his hunting style that the Dalmatians are moving to Zagreb. That's not true. The city of Zadar, according to the last census, had 70 and a few thousand inhabitants, and now there are nearly 90,000, Mr. Caine. And I know a large number of families, young families from Zagreb who have come to live in Zadar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47122	Thank you. Then we'll move on with the club debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Boris Klemenic on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47123	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we remembered a little atmosphere from the 13th extraordinary session held on July 29th 2009. At the same time, we discussed the proposal for a law amending the Law on Special Tax on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. The law was then passed as an anti-recession measure aimed at achieving a higher level of taxation since the amendments intended to further boost taxation against the economic power of the debtor. This means that customers of more expensive personal cars, motorcycles, vessels and aircraft would carry a higher tax burden in relative and absolute terms. The very important reason for the amendments to the Law on Special Taxes on Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft was also a fiscal reason. In this respect, I recall that the analysis of the movement of imports of cars, vessels and aircraft and detailed projections for the following year has been stopped so that, due to the proposed changes in revenues on this basis, around 150 million kuna could grow in the coming years. This law provides for the payment of a specific tax on vessels which, at the time of import, or delivery by a manufacturer, do not have an installed engine or do not have an uninstalled or outboard engine and on which a specific tax is not accounted and paid at the time of import, or delivery. It shall be subsequently accounted for and paid for by a special vessel tax prior to the registration of a vessel at the competent customs office. The law and we heard it earlier, although some were not sure, all the club representatives accepted and gave their contribution in the debate and supported the adoption of the law. For example, one club of representatives pointed out that a positive law was, however, full of holes through which about 150 million kuna was leaking annually and pointed out that for vessels a special tax was charged per metre of vessels, resulting in the same amount to be paid for a 15-metre fisherman as for a luxury yacht of the same length. One of his colleagues then warned of any irregularities or better to state the forms of fraud he had learned about and tried to avoid paying a special tax. At that time, the HSS Club also raised its hands for this law, believing that it is truly taxing luxury because it is one to buy a fishing boat or to engage in economic activities and the other to buy a luxury yacht designed for pleasure and entertainment. However, although no one questions the correctness of the law's intention, therefore, the taxation of luxury is this law, or amendments for which we all raised our hands in July last year, caused huge problems for those in Croatia who live off the production of small ships. In fact, the HSS Representatives Club received performances that warned us that at the time of the Croatian Economy Rescue Fund, one of the more vital branches of the nautical industry, which grew about thirty percent annually because of the provisions of this law, was practically slaughtered. It's about hundreds of people employed in manufacturing who are threatening to lose their jobs. Furthermore, we have been warned that although the sale of vessels and accompanying equipment has fallen significantly since 1 August 2009 due to the economic crisis and the tightening of bank criteria in the granting of loans and the licensing of the arrangement. And the transport of vessels has been completely suspended. The association of small shipbuilding at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce also warned about the effects of laws that were fatal to domestic "small" craft manufacturers, which were 102 by 1 August last year as well as for equipment manufacturers that were around 160 of them. In the first two months after the law came into force, one part of those companies was forced to put a key in the lock and the others tried to survive but had to fire their workers in order to do so. Due to a drastic increase in the price of their product, there are no more customers, although small shipbuilding has erupted over the past few years and has generated a total revenue of around 500 million kuna, and a cluster has been established, which ultimately resulted in an exit to international markets. We are also presented with a concrete example of the manufacturer who felt the devastating consequences of the law, so I'll just say a few details. The man had three employees, so he lost two, left alone. About the ordered ships, he had them first 15 and eventually remained 9 and almost everyone was suspended. I'm talking about the period after the law is passed. After August 1st, he did not receive a single order after the law was passed, and he also faced giving up orders from those from the past years that he had ordered. If we do not take urgent measures and this law is one of the necessary measures, our vessel manufacturers will remain not only without their work which I believe work out of love and enthusiasm but also their workers and their families who depend on the business of this small but recently successful branch of the economy. The government of the Republic of Croatia is familiar with this problem. In the light of the draft law, the Government states that according to the available data from Croatian ship manufacturers and yachts annual production is about a thousand and 100 vessels of which the largest part of the waste on boats is up to 7.5 metres long, about 75 to 80% and boats from 7.5 metres to 12 meters from 15 to 20%. Over 70% of production is sold in the Republic of Croatia. Those amendments and additions would eliminate problems with domestic smaller vessels producers as a result of the last applicable Act amending the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, remain motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft which entered into force on 9 August 2009. As a result, there has been a cancellation and reduction of orders due to an increase in the total price of finished products as a consequence of an increase in the specific tax which can be directly caused by this and a reduction in the production of water facilities. In contrast to the objectives of the Strategy for the Development of Nautical Tourism of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009 to 2019, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a session held on 24 November 2008 called "Increasing the production of water facilities for nautical tourism in the Croatian shipyard and developing a cluster of nautical tourism". Furthermore, this law led to a decline in the number of newly registered boats and yachts. Croatia's small shipbuilding due to the cancellation of orders due to a significant increase in the total price of the final product has led to almost total collapse. According to the 2009 port captains, the drop of 18.5% of newly registered yachts and boats was recorded compared to the previous year 2008. The most sold vessels in the Republic of Croatia are up to 6 metres long with or without cabin equipped with engines of up to 40 horsepower. Their value moves around 100,000 kunas without VAT. Such vessels usually go into private hands except for a smaller percentage of the intended rental or rent a Booth activity. In addition to the shepherds most used by the coastal population, there are smaller speedboats, which are others on the top of the list of sold vessels in the last few seasons. It would benefit the producers most if the excise duty for this category of cheapest vessels was lifted because the excise duty is significantly collected by the vessel and potential customers are decided to purchase the vessel from the Slovenian or Italian producers because there is no excise duty in these countries. Also, according to some calculations that we met a small boat produced in Croatia, it is more expensive than the same one imported into Croatia because of the different formula for calculating various duties at the cost of production. The figures speak for themselves that it is an economic branch of enormous potential, there is no need to further explain. That the adoption of controversial amendments to this law last year resulted in devastating effects for the nautical industry in the Republic of Croatia as well. The only thing left to welcome is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognized this problem and in this way seeks to correct the unwanted effects even though they have already arisen. Small boat manufacturers from the moment of amending their laws last year were exposed to huge problems such as blocking accounts, firing workers and even completely shutting down production but there is still a certain will to carry out this activity and its development. In order to address this big but decisive economic problem as best possible, the HSS Representatives Club will support its adoption with a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to gather domestic producers and find an appropriate model of how to return them to the position they were in prior to the adoption of the Law. In any event, this problem must not stop at the adoption of these amendments to the Law but should be approached in cooperation with the damaged producers and offered to help them through funds for the rescue of the Croatian economy, either by co-financing of interest, credit, which would buy vessels of domestic production or by liberating producers of expenditure for employees or each new employee during a specific period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47124	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47125	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State for my colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club will support the adoption of this Act amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes. Not because this Law is good, but because the shipbuilders' associations and all those involved in the production of small boats said that if this Law is not passed then we would obviously experience the collapse of small shipbuilding and not because this Law is good, because there is obviously some kind of mathematical disagreement who will now pay more and who will pay less, but to simply correct the mistake that was made last summer, when small shipbuilders were brought before bankruptcy by the Law or this Law. FOR this reason, even today when you talk to small shipbuilders who are familiar with these changes and additions, you will not find a good opinion of this Law, they think it could be done more, but that the damage does not continue we will support this Law. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing that law would not change the amount of special taxes on passenger cars and motorcycles, but a new level of special taxes on vessels and aircraft, special taxes on vessels and aircraft would continue to be paid according to the value of vessels and aircraft but new price classes with a different level of specific taxes were introduced in relation to passenger cars and motorcycles. And when calculated as counterpart Doric calculated these tables then perhaps our false mathematics comes back to the fact that those who buy or who have more money or buy more expensive vessels, that they will pay maybe less but I believe it will not be so, if so, please fix it. When we discussed this summer, last summer about the adoption of the Law then if you saw well somewhere at the end as it says in this law, I am always afraid and should always be afraid, it says for the implementation of this Law no additional funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is required. Of course not, but I wonder who will pay for the adoption of that law to those small shipbuilders who have suffered from the 8th month until now. However, someone should pay the damage that they have done by passing a law that was not good to them, and yet the state budget would cost something if we took care of the adoption of a bad law to small shipbuilders because if we knew then or if we now know that the proposed reason for amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes was an economic reason but in 2009 we also knew in the summer when we passed this Law that it was the same important economic reason even though no one now remembers, then it was also the debate, the Secretary of State did not know whether you were defending that Law, when we were saying that by adopting this Law which did not end up going to the manufacturer or in consultation with them to the damages and that at the end of the day the small shipbuilders would probably have to start shutting down their shipyards or if there was nothing else firing people, and then it was our intention to do the anti-recession measure, we don't have to pay the money, because we still have to pay for it. Unfortunately, we came to the point that we almost killed a cow that gives us milk, which I don't think is good at all, because small shipbuilders have shown toughness and have shown that such small shipbuilding lives. We simply knew then just as we know then that in the Nautical Tourism Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009. 2019 aims to increase the production of water facilities for nautical tourism in Croatian shipyards. If we knew that then, then we passed a bad law. Have we, like those who should have controlled the legislator, missed but it seems to me that in the debate we talked about and said that it would reflect well at this point that the legislator did, however, this time, if he hadn't heard the opposition, he heard small shipbuilders, and in some way he fixed the damage that was done, or that the damage was not further produced. What is not good for us to pass such laws in this House is primarily the way they are brought, so if we go with anti-recession measures then they should be really anti-recessional and not that in the end those laws that we bring here we have to withdraw them in one way, I have a feeling that it's become a practice, it shouldn't be a practice. You know, there's this doctor who, as kids, we learned that he talked to animals and in his palette, all those little animals he talked to and talked to, he had this weird two-headed animal that was called "Try Me, Pull Him". So this could be called, we push the law, so we pull it back, so we fix it, I think that push me back to politics, we shouldn't be in this House, so I appeal that when we make the law, it's a little bit more life-saving, that is, to consult those to whom this law applies, not to change them every six months. Here's how I said why we're going to stop the cow from killing himself to the end, by passing this law, not because this law is good, because I believe that in some other readings or on some other occasions and times it should be further reduced for small shipbuilders, so I believe that we will be able to get small shipbuilders exactly as they ask to continue to work and produce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47126	Thank you. We've closed the debate on clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate. First, she is a respected representative of Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at the very beginning, I have to say that it's amazing that during the 8th month of 2009, we passed the law that we are changing today. There has been about six months, and now the proposer notes that this change from six months ago caused major problems for its consequence among domestic small vessels producers because there has been a cancellation and reduction of orders due to the increase in the total price of finished products, means due to an increase in the specific tax on vessels. It is also interesting that the government only now notes that the increase in the special tax from six months ago is also contrary to the objectives of the strategy for developing the nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2019, which was adopted by the same government. So it turns out that the government is passing bill proposals and development strategies that are in complete contrast, so now six months later, it's been seen and there's been a change of the Law on Special Tax, and all the damages that have been caused so far for them, of course, no one will be held accountable, and we see that they are huge. Furthermore, in the assessment of the situation, the applicant states that the above-mentioned amendments to the law achieve a higher level of taxation of economically strong taxpayers, meaning that buyers of more expensive vessels and aircraft would bear a higher tax burden in relative and absolute terms. However, that is simply not true. That's what my colleague Doric was talking about. In fact, the law is visible in these classes, so special taxes on vessels and aircraft are paid, I'm going to give an example, based on 4 million kuna, so this law that we're changing by now would be 445 thousand kuna. If we look at the law that we are now changing the special tax means the value of a vessel of 4 million kuna, it would amount to 2 million 380 thousand kuna. This is one huge difference, and exactly what my colleague Doric was saying, is really going to the hands of those who have a lot of money, i.e. tycoons who ultimately pay that tax, so it seems to me that, through the amendments to this law where it was supposed to qualify, or to reduce the specific tax for smaller vessels, it was somehow intended to attract, or to favour those who buy large vessels, expensive vessels because the higher the sales price and the basis of the amount of the special tax to be paid is far less than it was under the law that we passed during the 9th month 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47128	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47129	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's my colleague Cavlovic, in her debate, drew attention to the fact that we were practically discussing this law three months ago, so he hasn't even warmed up in the process of use yet, and we're changing it. If we know that the same fate has been experienced by a number of other laws, here I will count: the Law on Trade, the Law on the Use of Tobacco Products, the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, the Law on Agricultural Land that we have here for several points in the agenda, man is actually wondering why these debates are being spent in the first place, if these discussions are not respected. So, the government prepares practically one semi-product, the law is put into operation and after a very short time we are in a situation to change it and so unfortunately several times. I think it is indeed time for the legislative proposals to start well prepared, to consult the profession, to possibly create and appropriate simulations and finally, to hear the motions of the representatives in the debate in order to start making solutions that would have one longer term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47130	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Hope...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47131	Comrade Jelash, I fully agree with your findings. The fact is that we have really no laws that are clearly not well prepared, or well done, in the congregation procedure. You were talking here about the Law on Trade, the Law on Tobacco Processing, and that's the same case with this Law on Special Tax, which is certainly not good. The matter of a certain right to security speaks of another matter, which is that the Government is obviously not making enough efforts to deliver to this Assembly rules that are more quality and which should not be changed so often. And what is particularly interesting, I also said in my debate, not only is there frequent changes to the law but even the laws proposed by this House, and it is about the Law on this special month 9 tax, it was not even in line with the objectives of the Strategy for the Development of Nautical Tourism of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2019, which was adopted by the same government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47132	Thank you. But this debate won't be written to you because you didn't get your word. You didn't wait for me to tell you you could talk. Okay. Let's move on with the debate. All right, distinguished representative Goran Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47133	Mr. Vice President, first one correction, Gordan Maras. You said Goran. ... Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It's a very short discussion. This law, or the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Taxes, is amended after not full six months, not even six or five months. And what happens quite often in Croatia is that I too saw the budget rebalancing last year, and the introduction of a crisis tax needed a law that would cover the story of why Croatian citizens are being taken extra money and then we let the story go here for yachts will be paid a lot more tomorrow. These are new excise duties, the rich will pay a lot more than they've paid so far. And in that rebalancing we planned an increase from that 30 million kuna item by the end of the year. 30 million kuna. And that's a classic story when you go to kill a cow for steak. And why am I saying that? Today, five months after the application of this amended excise duty story. 4,000 people working in small shipbuilding are practically on the verge of collapse. There is a possibility that many of these companies will have to be shut down. They ran out of demand for, since their ships that work have collected drastically, and unfortunately, in excise duties, whether the ship is 7, 15 or 30 m big, rather than going to the price. The vast majority of orders for those small ships that de facto are part of the luxury, but they're not definitely yachts. These companies fail because the orders are gone. And now because of 30 million kunas as much as we thought we'd be coming in more, and we didn't make any more of it, because it's very likely we'll see it in the budget because the spending has fallen, because people didn't have the money to buy the boats. We questioned 4,000 jobs, or the existence of 4,000 families. On the other hand, a good part of these companies are working and are facing exports. I will not now mention successful companies like Piculjana who already has a large part of their export ships. But unfortunately, we had no understanding of that industrial branch. And well, after six months, we saw that it didn't make sense, and we changed. What I appeal to in the future, let's not say for the sake of me that we have on one side we will tax more of those who have ships, in return to cover the story than that we took from the Croatian worker 250 kuna per month on average. Let's not question an entire branch of industry. On the other hand, I would point out that I am extremely sorry that the proposal of the profession is not respected, i.e. the proposal of these small shipyards, which require that up to seven metres of boat length and up to a certain engine power not to be taxed at all to stimulate consumption, so that these vessels are more bought in Croatia. I don't think it's much of a luxury to have a seven-metre vessel and an engine suitable for 10, 15 horses and it can't be compared to a yacht. Unfortunately, here we have definitely excises of value. Once a vessel up to 7 meters can be worth more, but definitely to support that branch, I don't think that proposal should be rejected. And I'm sorry for being systematically and persistently ignored. I looked, we needed you to be told quite a long time to understand this problem, because we had a monthly follow-up on the internet just now five, six articles that warned it would happen with small shipbuilding. Unfortunately, there was no reaction here until now when indeed there were five to twelve of those 4,000 employees in the industry responding. But good, better ever than never. Finally, of course, I will support these changes in order to offer at least some perspective to those people who really have a lot of it in their direction towards exports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47134	Thank you. We also have one replica, the esteemed representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47135	So I'll replicate my colleagues to Marasa. Unfortunately, the situation is such that in this country we are obviously dealing with the wrong things in a way to throw dust into the eyes, i.e. smoke curtains on one side while the real problems and real problems are somewhere else, so make sure that those who have and own luxury vessels are certainly not sailing under the Croatian flag, but with the flag of various tax oasis. A set of vessels for those who will introduce them to Croatia are definitely inaccessible, and they will certainly do anything to avoid any payment of taxes to the state. That's for sure. And so it's to talk about increasing income from this base by throwing sand into the eyes and creating an impression, creating a smokescreen while actually the main actors and actors are somewhere else, they go behind the scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47136	Thank you. And we're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to the distinguished representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, as we have heard from my predecessors, we are discussing today the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. So, the law that was passed in 1997 and which, meanwhile, experienced its six amendments and additions. Here I would just add, unlike those who wonder that certain legal matter, or laws, are often changed. I'm not surprised at it at all, given that life's circumstances are often changing, that opportunities are often changing in our environment. It is perfectly normal for legal matter to adapt to emerging situations. Therefore, the latest amendments and additions to this law were in the middle of last year when a single basis for paying a special tax was found in both private cars and motorcycles, as well as for vessels and aircraft. This means, in particular, that the tax base established the price sold without value added tax, i.e. the customs value increased by the amount of customs duty for all means of transport to which the law applies, which was not the case until then. We heard earlier from the secretary of state and in the debate that certain physical characteristics of the vessel and aircraft were taken to determine the tax. I think this way is much more acceptable and much more effective. And, of course, the tax is paid depending on the price class the subject of which is taxed. Therefore, the Law on special taxes on passenger cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft determines the payment of a specific tax on the means of transport in question imported or manufactured in the Republic of Croatia. The law also provides for the payment of a specific tax on the marketing of used passenger cars, motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft bought or acquired by legal persons and paid at a market value of 5%. So five percent. This specific tax shall be paid in a fixed amount which shall be determined depending on the nature of the tax in question in a given price class as I have already said before, and additionally in the percentage to be determined for each price class at the tax price exceeding the lower limit of the price class. It is very important to state the fact that during 2009, domestic small-ship manufacturers found themselves in an extremely difficult situation due to the reduction and cancellation of customer orders also manifested through a significant drop in total production of water facilities, and according to port captains, a decline of newly registered yachts and boats was recorded in 2009 by as much as 18.5%. Of course, the result of this situation is the growing number of unemployed coming from this sector. Therefore, the difficult state of Croatian small shipbuilding, but also nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia, is directly due to the increased tax amounts that had to be accounted for and paid in accordance with the latest amendments and additions to the law in question and which, of course, resulted in an increase in the sales price of finished products. However, it should be honest that the crisis has contributed well to this state, which unfortunately still significantly shaken the Croatian economy that is trying to help the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and with the help of all of us here in the Parliament, has drawn us out of this crisis as soon as possible. For all of the above reasons, or simply for economic reasons, amendments and additions to the Law on Special Tax on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft which do not change the level of special taxes on passenger cars, motorcycles, but which have been proposed new, reduced and significantly reduced the level of special taxes on vessels and aircraft. What is more important to say is that the specific tax on vessels and aircraft will continue to be paid according to the value of the vessel, i.e. by introducing completely new price classes, distributed between 0 and 4 million kuna and more kunas and with a different level of special tax compared to cars and motorcycles. Furthermore, the proposed and previously described amendment on the one hand achieves a higher level of taxation of economically stronger taxpayers, which means that buyers of more expensive vessels and aircraft will pay more taxes in a relative and absolute sense. I'm going to fence myself here if we're watching, so there's no correction to incorrect allegations, if we're looking at a table that shows the obligation to pay taxes for vessels and planes, I don't compromise it with the current law as it's supposed to be. On the other hand, agreement has been reached with the goals of the development strategy for nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2019 which seek to increase the production of water facilities for nautical tourism in Croatian shipyards. Finally, the proposed amendment and the addition of the law have prescribed the obligation to report to the customs office in charge by taxpayers on the collection of specific duties on vessels, or aircraft produced and delivered to the Republic of Croatia, and, if not, certain fines are prescribed. Finally, I would like to say that when I vote to support the amendments and additions of this law purely for the reason that, personally, this law as the last law we discussed, the Law on the Fund for Economic Recovery and Development, and the Law on Housing Savings and State Encouraging Housing Savings, which we discussed yesterday, as well as a series of other laws that the Government of the Republic of Croatia passed in the previous year, is simply one of the measures aimed at restoring and developing a further Croatian economy. And of course, another message at the end of all those who objected to the timing, that is, during the adoption and who said that they are significantly behind on the adoption of these measures that the government is proposing, I can partly agree, but I would say that it is never too late. It is never too late for a good deed and good intentions, of course, for a good word. Well, I'd like you to accept my suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47138	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, Goran Maric, also applied for the debate. Here's my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47139	Thank you very much. So there's no greater pleasure than knowing that an idea or a proposal that didn't initially come upon fertile soil, after a certain time matures and becomes a good proposal and an applicable proposal. That's why I personally feel the satisfaction of suggesting that the tax rate be reduced at the outset. That is why I support this proposal to amend and supplement laws to reduce tax rates, especially small boats. I also warned of the potential negative effect that will cause the rate to rise because 102 small shipbuilders who employ 4 000 employees if they are forced to fire employees then come into a situation that pays 3 times more jobs than they keep the existing job. After the amendments to the law and the increase in rates from this place, I prayed and appealed to the Minister of Finance to amend this law and here finally amends it. That is why I feel special satisfaction, but I also feel special satisfaction because I belong to economists who appreciate the real economy. Which encourage production, but also promote the economic view that production should be considered as the starting point of economic activity and the main driver of all economic cycles. But I also belong to economists who care about the protection of national interests, and this can best be cared for through the protection of domestic production. And this law is a contribution to that. The truth and doubtless that 5 months. has also brought some consequences. But why is the sale cut? Is this because of the increase in taxes or because of the general fall in purchasing power and financial crisis it is difficult to calculate. There's probably one and the other. But also this is a chance now to change it with pretty little negatives. We've heard here that this is a tycoons match. Well, if it weren't for this big financial crisis, a huge drop in purchasing power would personally be against reducing tax rates to these big yachts, ships, helicopters and planes, but given the difficult, really difficult, the economic situation is better to expand the base and with as many units sold collect more taxes. Although, in absolute terms, the tax is lower. Also here, counterpart Cain said, if he were still here, that no one today would dare to buy a yacht of 200 thousand or 300,000 euros because they would immediately arrest, arrest or arrest him. Well, no colleague Cain, there are entrepreneurs who publicly say they're ready and they have money to buy a company worth 2 billion kuna, so no one's gonna buy anything. No one asks him where he got his money, even though his business results don't show him that he has the potential to buy such a company. But by promoting himself publicly in the media, he raises the price of his company, shares of his company, which is inadmissible. But what I would point out is I'm glad that the attitude on these taxes has changed especially on small boats. And there's no need to attack for someone to change their attitude. Well, I appreciate a man who changes his attitude, because if he changes his attitude, then he shows he's a man, because if he doesn't change him, then he's a monument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47140	Thank you very much. And the last application for an individual hearing, dear colleague Daniel Srb. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47141	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. In this bill, it was actually quite said and I do not want to repeat what colleagues and colleagues have said earlier, but I would like to draw attention to certain items that I consider to be missed in the law. In fact, although this bill does not apply to vessels, i.e. means of moving on manual drive, so without engine, rowboats using sports clubs but also different fishermen are taxed and in accordance with this law and not very little. So, for example. The amount of tax on a rowing eight that has so far been paid around 48 thousand kuna in the future will be 34 thousand kuna. But it's too much money for poor sports clubs that just can't get it out. And that's why my proposal is that boats used on manual drive, so whether it's rowing sport boats, cocks or fishing boats that use practically only oars as a means of driving, this particular tax is not accounted for, because we practically tax the extremely poor part of the population, I mean not only athletes, but also fishermen of people who live in inland waters and eat practically by fishing. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47142	Thank you very much. Does it want to be done? He does. State Secrets of the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zdravko Maric. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47143	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's the same as with the previous bill of law to thank you all for the debate and suggestions. It was a little more bile from the beginning. But also let me say the same again with a few short observations, or figures. So, the criticisms addressed to the Government on the original changes in summer, now these changes in early February this year and the conclusion that, in fact, with those changes from summer, that small shipbuilding industry was brought before collapse, i.e. that they had significantly or entirely stopped and sold. I'll back that up with one statement and one number. Of course we can't agree on that. The finding says that this industry, i.e. its representatives, and through the Chamber of Commerce and individually reacted very quickly and were already some indication that certain adjustments could occur, which means that they adjusted their behaviour, or in some way delayed production and sales. However, I would say another more important indicator and data. So we passed the law, that is, the amendments to the law we passed for the summer. You had the opportunity to discuss the State budget report for the first 6 months of 2009 from which it was very clear that the revenue from excise duties on cars, motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft was reduced by 50% compared to 2008. What's he saying? It says that sales have fallen significantly, and so has the income from the special tax and before these changes and additions that took place in the summer. Of course, we would all love first in the government, of course you here as Parliamentarians if these changes led to some major increase and income, and the very same production and sales. I have to admit that according to this information I just told you a little while ago, we can't totally believe it. Surely we can believe it was the intensity of these changes and the additions to stimulate and help, but surely that some effect like neither what some said and said was very high, negative effect certainly cannot expect the same high positive effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47144	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. I'm closing the point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47145	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 507, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority vote with 100 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47146	And we move to the 3rd item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Development Policy in the fiscal, social and financial sectors, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 508 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've received the proposal in boxes. By establishing the agenda, we received a proposal from the motion that the law be discussed in an urgent procedure, which was adopted. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Reports from the board's session were received on the benches here during the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. State Secretary Mr. Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47147	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, the short loan agreement for development policy, fiscal, social and financial sectors aims to strengthen public finances management, social sector resilience and to increase the efficiency and stability of the financial sector, and to improve the economic reform programme that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will undertake and undertake in the medium term in order to increase economic growth and make progress in the accession of the European Union. As far as the loan details are concerned, the loan is granted under extremely favourable conditions. The amount of EUR 200 million was granted to 15.5 years with an interest rate which is calculated as a combination of the sum of six-month libor increased by a fixed interest margin. If we translate that into an interest rate calculation, you get an interest rate of about 2%. As regards the withdrawal of funds from the loan, it is possible as soon as this law passes this debate and is confirmed in the Assembly, because there are no other preconditions to be met. It should also be said that this loan is programmable, not projective, which means that the loan is entered into the total amount of the budget. The Republic of Croatia or the Government plans to withdraw these funds in February 2010. However, we left one, so to speak, the fuse is that the effectiveness of this loan is that there is a date on April 30th until we need to realise these funds. Let me also say something that Mr Horvai, who is the head of the World Bank Office in the Republic of Croatia in Zagreb, said when signing loans that this is the same one I would say about the confidence indicator and in some way confirm the correctness of the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia and how the World Bank and international financial institutions see what we are doing, or what plans we are trying to implement. It should also be said that this loan was signed I would dare say, I can't say for sure everything but the vast majority of countries that received this kind of loan from the World Bank were one of the basic preconditions for such a thing was a signed stand-by arrangement with the IMF. In the case of Croatia you know very well that we haven't done it since the beginning, however we have managed to really show certain criteria, meet certain criteria but of course and clearly present and show what further measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans to do primarily in the field of public finance management, social policy, but also one important component of this total loan and spending of funds will be related to a whole series of laws that we have brought here, or you. We have discussed them here from the financial system where we have made significant progress but of course this additional implementation will also require additional efforts and resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47148	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. If we don't, we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished colleague Davor Bernardić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47149	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What I'm going to say at the beginning is that we live in a country where when such an agreement is concluded no matter how favourable it may be, it's a success. We also listened to the previous government that record debt means success, but we also have the chance in this new government constitution to hear that the record debt of 200m euros is also the success of the Croatian state. However, it is a debt that ultimately remains for all Croatian taxpayers, their families, their children, that is a debt to be paid back, which should be returned to the euro and that is a debt which is ultimately an external debt. The explanation of the funds to be spent on from this 200 to these million euros in credit debt is that it will be used to strengthen the governance of public finances of the social sector and to increase the efficiency and stability of the financial sector. Therefore, to all the users of the state budget, such as the State Secretary of State as stated by the programme and not the project, it is not surprising that it will be consumed already in February of this year, because certainly with increased revenues as they are planned in the 2010 state budget itself and which can definitely not be realised because it is not counting on the extra contribution from the basis of the tax burden of work, since it is not possible to plan a surplus from the basis of the increase in value added tax, it is obvious that there are problems in the financing of the state budget and therefore will be consumed this loan precisely in February of the following year. It's a program, not a project. Why? Because today we had one of the few measures to increase the i.e. Encouraging the Croatian economy and it is linked to the guarantee fund behind which the Croatian state will stand at 2 billion kuna. However, the guarantee fund and the 2 billion kuna also enter the public debt balance, ultimately an increase in the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. And what the debt of the general state is best said is that, compared to the last five years, the debt of the general government is unrelated whether it is external or internal debt over 108 billion and 50% higher than in 2003 and that the state and the guarantees behind which the state stood are unrelated whether it is domestic or foreign over about 50 billion kuna. So, together with central government guarantees, the state owes more than 20 billion euros. However, when the World Bank lends a loan and gives little encouragement, it is likely, after Prime Minister Sanader's departure, a 200m-euro loan from last year's 100m-euro loan, which was also consumed by the IBRD and the IBRD is a member of the World Bank Group. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, meaning after last year's 100m-euro debt, has been granted a new 200m-euro loan, and I would dare say to Prime Minister Kosor's mustache that it may be encouraged in some efforts to implement some reforms. But it will not be possible for the next year if these reforms do not exist. And when you talked about economic reforms in the medium term, we from the SDP Club and I believe from other opposition clubs would like to see what reforms are, which are moves, which is a set of laws that are not a pure adjustment of legislation with the European Union, which will reduce or stimulate all those things that Croatia is waiting for on its way to the European Union and above all which can be a guarantee of long-term sustainable development. So what you should definitely say is that the World Bank has given something to Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's mustache, less on state finances and Minister Shuker's situation but is aware that unless the loan is not available, unless it currently saves the budget and covers liquidity in a very short time so that Croatia can get into even more serious problems and how serious these problems are that the World Bank regularly warns in its reports on a regular basis about problems that have not been solved for years, i.e. Croatia is facing. Public consumption of 50% of gross social product and research says that more than 35% has a negative impact on economic growth, we feel it best with the economic downturn in the past and this year. Croatia was financed by spending more taxation, which is long-term unsustainable, should ultimately be less. Also, the World Bank's stake in higher taxation this year is particularly noticeable through the introduction of several new taxes is definitely a false and bad message to all investors both domestic and foreign. Foreign debt as a percentage of the exposure compared to what can be recovered by export as a single product which can finance public debt because we have to pay back in euro is large and exceeded gross domestic product. The external debt in Croatia is over 43 billion euros and is greater than anything produced in the year in Croatia. And part of this production of gross social product in Croatia is produced also on the basis of new borrowing. Reality is cruel and harsh. We're in charge of more than we think, we're exposed to more than we think. Without a new borrowing, we can't finance the elemental stuff. Fourth remark. Progress in reforms is insufficient and this weakens fiscal consolidation. Also one World Bank rating. Subsidies and transfers continue to represent the lion's share of the state's expenditure, I read, it's written. Croatia spends 20% of the total consumption of the general government on salary. These are all remarks that the World Bank regularly exhibits to the Republic of Croatia every year, on which no progress has been made, but statistics are getting worse from year to year. Therefore, the addition to this contract is an addition to the basis of fiscal consolidation, and it is related to a few things, related to the freezing of wages, is related to the inability of new employment, but it will remain insufficient, especially in the coming year if real and economic strategies are not made. Today we have had the opportunity to witness an increase in public debt through the guarantee fund, but this is the first such measure that has actually come to this Parliament. When we said that she was too late, we really thought so, since the European Commission and the SDP as a responsible opposition have proposed measures to recover and exit Croatia from the crisis just over a year ago. What I have to say for the end is that this loan, and I will repeat that in this year due to a change in the government's leadership, is more trust less on what it stands for, in fiscal consolidation, or less on Minister Shuker, more on Jadranka Kosor, but that by next year it will not be possible to be the case and that next year, if the economic reforms that are being discussed are definitely not achieved through this one loan, because the objective of this loan is as programming as you yourself said that everything is coming into the state budget as seen and from the explanation. If nothing is done more important and significant, we will definitely not be able to enjoy such confidence from international financial institutions next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47150	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. My colleague, Davor Huška, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the correction. Two quotes from all over the series. A colleague, Bernardic, says the loan was won on Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's mustache. I think we all know it's impossible to get loans like that. This loan is a confirmation of regularity, as we heard from the Secretary of State, the economic policy run by the Republic of Croatia and without the use of the International Monetary Fund arrangement. Also, a colleague said the loan will be consumed in February of next year. That's not true. We see here that the deadline for the withdrawal of funds is 30 April 2010, and of course the SDPs are dissatisfied when we are in charge of the domestic market as a state, especially when we are in debt under such favourable conditions, means at an interest rate of about 2% at 15 and a half years on the external market. I don't know what's left of them in the end, only printing money, and we tried that in the former system, so it didn't work very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47152	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the last minute, I have to focus my debate in the second direction after my colleagues have been presented on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I just didn't realize whether the SDP's Club would vote for this bill or not. And you don't know yet. But I've heard a lot of criticism on this bill. It started with how we boast about new assignments. It didn't work out. Well, of course it's not a success to be in charge. That makes sense, that's the right point. But it's a 15-and-a-half-year success, 200 million euros at only 2% interest. This is indeed a success and it is indeed a confirmation of the trust of the most important international financial institution in the government's economic policy. Because this financial institution has proven a lot of trust in our policy so far. 50, 45 approved loans, a billion 940m euros, 51 gifts worth $72m, etc. And this law, which is not projectual but programming, in order to strengthen public finances management, social sector resilience and to increase the efficiency and stability of the financial sector, will indeed be welcome to the Republic of Croatia. I wish we had more of these loans. The HDZ Club, of course, supports this draft law on the conclusion of a contract for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, but I cannot help but notice, I am impressed by the ease of concluding my colleagues on the reasons for granting credit to the Republic of Croatia. This is such an easy conclusion, and we even call for certain research, but some studies by my colleague Bernardic say that on average man uses 10% of the brain and 7% of the database, and he always thinks he's 100% right. The bill just doesn't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47154	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. Correction of the quote, colleague Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47155	I will correct an incorrect quote when you said, colleague Maric, that this is a task of success. This task is a normal task with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. That is how most of the other countries in the institution are in debt. It's not a success, it's something normal. Let's not do normal things triumph. That's all we're trying to say. Let's be on the ground, hard on the ground, 'cause if we don't, we might as well slip fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47156	Followed by a further debate on behalf of the IDS Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47157	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. I don't want much on the foreign debt, maybe a little later, or the government's debt at all. And we will support this loan, but I must confess to the heavy heart. No matter how much Mr. Maric mentioned that 200m euros in 15 years of payment deadline, 2% of interest. Someone will say it's ideally donated money, but you'll hear the terms of this loan. On the third side of this bill, I quote: "There is also co-operation in the Republic of Croatia between the IBRD and the IMF in several areas such as public expenditure management, pension reform" I stress "the health and social care sector, and the labour market. These activities, which are mutually complementary and are closely coordinated with the European Commission, which respects the capacity of the IBRD to offer advice to the Republic of Croatia on policy, structural and institutional reforms. And what does that mean, gentlemen, when we talk about these reforms specifically? So the plan is to raise the age limit for retirement. That's number one. A reduction in preferential pensions and an increase in the allocation by the second pillar. True, this loan again quotes this document as it is said here that this strategy foresees a four-year loan programme to the Republic of Croatia in terms of one to one point four billion dollars as a basic scenario. The level of total bank lending will depend primarily on the needs and interests of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the ability to absorb funds. This scenario covers loans to finance projects for the implementation of the project from the transport, energy, education, environmental protection, adaptation to climate change, and projects in health care, justice, as well as analytical support for specialized reports and analytical studies that will precede projects and define priorities and the necessary reforms in particular in the field of public expenditure management of the investment environment, climate change etc. etc. On page 5 of this document, these are the conditions I mentioned earlier. So, borrower of the Republic of Croatia, lender of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The loan amount is 200 million euros. The aim of stronger governance of public finances, social sector resilience, and increased efficiency and stability of the financial sector, 15.5 years of repayment, a six-month euro library increased by a fixed interest net, will reach interest half-yearly, 15 May and 15 November respectively. The mains will reach May 15th, 2025. The initial fee is 0.25% of the principal amount of the loan. It shall be paid no later than 60 days after the entry into force of the loan, etc. etc. On page 12 of this document, gentlemen, it is said that the borrower is a) quote: "he made a decision to freeze employment in the public sector". That's number one. Through the revised collective agreements, he reduced salaries in the state and public service by 6% in 2009 and/or kept salaries at a frozen level in the 2010-2012 draft budget law. And let everyone in Croatia know that salaries have been frozen in the public sector for two years. The borrower froze the indexation of pensions in 2010 and reduced 10% of the preferential pensions related to government members, parliamentary representatives and judges of the Constitutional Court through the adoption of the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, etc. The borrower, under three in 2009, rationalised spending on a public investment programme in such a way that the Parliament has revised the 2010 Budget Act three times, and referred the draft budget law for 2010/2012 to the parliamentary procedure. containing provisions further streamlining consumption for the public investment programme. Under four. The borrower increased the participation and premium for supplementary health insurance, reduced the cost of sickness and medicines, and extended the payment of health contributions to pensions in accordance with etc. In its 2009-2012 draft bill, the borrower provided insurance funds to cover the projected increase in the number of new beneficiaries of unemployment benefits and social assistance seekers. So everything predicts which direction the country is going to go and the normal borrower introduced a satisfactory among what it is, genetic cooperation. I guess generation cooperation is about preparedness for the financial crisis and crisis management. What it says, it's a simple mistake. By signing a memorandum of understanding between the Croatian National Bank Finance Minister and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. So here, gentlemen, you can see in this document that Croatia has transferred a good part of its sovereignty to lenders. All this for one and a half billion kuna or three hundred million euros. The question is what leaves us gentlemen of Croatian sovereignty if international forums write to us which discredit clearly, because of them we kind of live by laws. Who has put this sovereignty at risk to sell for a three-bit 200m euros. What happens tomorrow? Who's responsible for that? Sanader does, but I'm sure he's not alone now. Everyone around him is just as responsible as he is, so this government I think is really pushing us into breaking and entering. Sanader's gone. There's still a new government. Now, will anyone take responsibility for these opportunities and whether anyone will answer for these opportunities in this country? However, what I am certainly most interested in when we talk about this loan of EUR 200 million or a billion and a half kuna is reform or a hint of reform, pension reform. Now, will the gentlemen's wives work until 65 or maybe 67? Whether to work men until 67, or maybe 70 years old. This agreement does not speak directly about it, but it indirectly indicates that reform. But let's go now and about who's responsible for the decomposition of this financial system of ours that we have one pensioner sorry, that we have one pensioner, that we have 1.38 workers, maybe 1 to 1.30 today. Istria doesn't, the one doesn't, I don't know who does? But there's still someone responsible for it. We destroyed the industry, in tourism last year we achieved a billion-euro revenue less than a year earlier. We privatized what we could have done. We've got a pre-exhale twist. Earlier, my predecessor from the SDP club talked about an external debt of 43 billion euros and soon I know what we're going to do and how we're just going to move on? In 2010, 10 billion euros should be paid back. Okay, I'd say even that's not a problem, but the problem is you know what? Who in this country will secure foreign exchanges, that's the problem. How are we going to secure foreign exchanges? We can very simply, I don't know the public sector to cut wages 5 or 10%, but what helps us? Nothing if we don't have and we don't make foreign exchanges. And we make foreign exchanges with exports that last year were no more than 10 billion euros. Once we get the final data, we'll see about that. We can be additionally in debt for 3.4 to 5 billion euros at the annual level. From tourism we will have income from 6 to 7 billion euros means in foreign exchanges. Foreign exchange records may be 1 billion euros, but that is only 22 to 23 billion euros. And on the other hand, we need 10 billion euros to finance foreign debt unless we prolong it and we need to secure at least $21,22 billion to finance imports. So we have one huge problem. We're missing about 5 billion euros in foreign exchanges right now, and we're just gonna feel it sooner or later. It is clear to the end that the IDS club will raise its hand for this loan, but we also wanted to warn, not so much about the modality of the external responsibility of the Republic of Croatia, the service of this external debt, but exactly what this loan between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development means to us as citizens. It means freezing wages in the public sector in at least 2 years. It's that the thesis I was talking about this morning that in five years' time, we'll all be paid, especially in the public sector, by at least 20, 30% less than we are today. This means a deterioration of the conditions for retirement. One word will make it harder, not easier. Here's what I think one required supplement to be able to vote for and figure out what we're raising our hands for right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47158	We have two applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Roshin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47159	Mr. Chairman, I would like to correct the allegations that my colleague Cain has said that we are selling ourselves for three hundred thousand euros, or rounded up by a billion and a half kuna. I don't think we're selling ourselves according to that finding is pointless, but I'm using the opportunity to ask him what money he thinks we're worth? He thinks we're on the market just so we don't get the right price. Because I stick to what President Tudjman once said there is no price for which Croatia would be sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47160	Thank you very much. And colleague Klaric, as well as correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Roshin's fixed that quote, so I'll do it again. It is indeed an incorrect quote from Mr Cain when he says we are selling ourselves for three hundred million euros. It also hurts as much as it hurts to say thank you to the Government of the Republic of Croatia who has made such a programme that has received a positive, or green light at the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and thanks for all the efforts we have made, we come out with these messages. We don't need that because it really, really, I'll say it again, it hurts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47162	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, Zlatko Koračević, has applied for a debate on behalf of the HNS club. Here's your colleague, Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47163	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, so I think it's polite to say thank you to someone when they support you, that's for sure. However, to say thank you for the foundation of irrational results, we said, we heard in the introduction that this loan is from, that this loan is a confirmation of the good economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If the good economic policy resulting from a 6% GDP decline is a good economic policy in which every 9 employees lost their jobs in 2009, if the good economic policy that has resulted in an internal inequity of 26 billion kuna, and even if it is a good economic policy that produced 86 thousand employees who work and do not get paid, I think it is on the border with reality not to use another term. But in any case, I want to make it very clear right away at the beginning of the debate that we at the HNS Club will support this bill for a number of reasons. Surely one of these reasons is the value or better said interest on these funds. In this regard, we must express regret that since any borrowing is good if this borrowing results in a new value. Here I am not sure whether it will result in a new value, but very likely since it is programming, it will likely result in a more efficient administration, more efficient governance in the fiscal, social and financial sectors. Why don't we have it today and why do we need this loan as an upgrade now? It's an open question, but I repeat it to me at the HNS club would certainly be far more pleased if it weren't, if it weren't software than if it were a project loan. A loan that has a chance to create a new value, not a loan that will finance something that no one has ever done and has not done. It is already said that I want to repeat it again, which is that the purpose of this loan is to strengthen governance in public finances, which means that it will focus on further strengthening public finances management and strengthening the public procurement system. I repeat the management of public finances and strengthening the public procurement system. I don't think there's any need to spend any more on public procurement, in fact, on the consequences of our way of managing public procurement, not to say, but that it's also connected to the public finances management system, it's clear to everyone no matter what assumption it's going on, what percentages of certain elements are involved in assessing these assumptions. Secondly, strengthening the social sector's resilience means that it includes a reform programme that will focus on three groups of reforms. The protection of working groups definitely necessary and necessaryO, it is a pity that we need a loan for such a purpose, because if we had a better economic policy then we should probably not have one such loan for such a purpose. Improving the financial sustainability of the health system, I believe that Minister Milinovic will be particularly happy and happy to upgrade his successful health reform system. Improving the short-term long-term pension system, definitely something we're all aware of. If nothing other than the number or participation or better said relationship between the number of persons employed and the number of pensioners. What especially pleases me is us in the club of the Croatian People's Party, which is that a control mechanism is being established because in many good projects precisely because of the lack of effective and useful. We had control mechanisms, however, the question of how successful they were. If they were successful, I don't think the Remetinec today would be too tight and our journalists would be dealing with other topics than they've been dealing with in particular in the last six months. This is Article 3 of the Treaty, which says that the borrower and the bank will, on time at the request of either party, exchange views on the macroeconomic framework of the borrower and on the progress made in the implementation of the programme. That's good. When we're not alone, it's good to have someone. And logic says that whoever gives money to control it. Secondly, "Before any such exchange of views, the borrower will submit a report to the bank on the progress made in implementing the programme in order to review and comment as extensively as the bank is reasonably seeking." And that is good for all of us too, and I believe that we also here in the Croatian Parliament, because we rarely get that opportunity when we have opportunities and get some segments and discuss it, especially when we talk about the business of public enterprises, especially. And c, "Not limiting the provisions of paragraph a and b of this section, the borrower will without delay notify the bank of any situation which would significantly counter the objectives of the programme." I believe that these three obligations in this Article 3 of the Treaty give a hint that these funds will be spent on the purpose for which they have been raised. We repeat, it is a pity that these funds do not have a project character which is programmable and we hope that the effect of these funds will also be linked to the measures taken in terms of strengthening the economy in terms of all the measures that give an indication of the possible creation of conditions for possible added value, because only by the foundation of value added we as a state and society have a chance and we can enter Europe as an equal partner. And I believe that this year, which is ahead of us until we enter the European Union, we will be able to use it. And finally, once again, we at the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47164	Thank you very much. We've exhausted our applications on behalf of the clubs, we're moving on to an individual debate. First, an esteemed colleague, Ante Kulusic, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47165	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Listening to this debate on the Law on Confirmation of Loan Contracts not all by clubs, especially colleagues from Caine, it turns out that we got these 200m euros free of charge so that it wouldn't be good because it would be small on him. Under conditions where global capital is difficult to reach, Croatia has managed to sign a loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development thanks to good and continuous fiscal policy measures aimed at strengthening financial discipline and a stable budget. The terms of the loan are extremely favourable. It is 200 million euros, as has been said several times so far, at 15.5 years at an interest rate of 2%, with which we give good activities a negative sign, but when we talk about this loan for negatively no space. This loan is a good confirmation of the government's good work, confirming that we are dealing with the crisis in a very large way, confirming that the government knows exactly how and where it is going, which is the recovery of the economy by preserving jobs and reducing unemployment. The programme supported by this law recognises the activities that are well under way, and the international bank is ready to continue to invest in continuing reforms. First of all, it is about further strengthening public procurement and public finances management systems, improving health and pension systems, protecting vulnerable population groups. I have to answer to the complaints about additional borrowings that are positive examples of borrowings which are financed by significantly more unfavourable loans from the past in 2000 or after that year. The positive effects of the loan are unquestionable, especially from the aspect of the sector for which it is intended, and we can be satisfied with the good position on the financial market that the Republic of Croatia has. I'm looking at this loan agreement positively and I support its confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47166	Thank you very much. And the next application is the application of a esteemed colleague, Davor Huška. Here's your colleague, Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47167	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It has already been said that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Republic of Croatia is the most important international financial institution that continuously, comprehensively supports economic and social development and reforms on the way to the market economy. Since the wartime when other sources of funding have not been available to our country, they have been closed in a better way, and to this day a significant source of funding is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Financial support has been adapted over time to the needs of rebuilding, building infrastructure, structural adjustments and development of the Republic of Croatia. Since Croatia became a member of the World Bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been actively providing financial and technical assistance, advice and analytical services to Croatia on 25 February 1993. The IBRD granted 45 loans to Croatia worth almost 2 billion euros and 51 gifts worth 72 million US dollars. According to the amount of loans granted and the technical assistance granted, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the most significant source of foreign financial support contributing to the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. It is particularly important to highlight the funds that came to our country after the Homeland War, after the military redistribution of the "Blash" in the Western Slavonia area, after the peaceful reintegration of Vukovar in the area where the World Bank's funds were poured in and used as grants for units of local self-government for the purposes of electrification, the restoration of electrical networks, for the restoration of kindergartens, for the restoration of homes of the old, here at the end and the irrevocable incentives in the economy. So, for example, seven entrepreneurs from the area of cities where I come from Pacrac and Lipik in the past year have been using nearly 7 million kunas of grants to the World Bank for accelerated economic development. Our government has made a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of another loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development that we are discussing here today, and when we talk about these three important objectives which are intended to be achieved by this loan, I think it is the second one that speaks about strengthening the resilience of the social sector where reform programmes are covered by the three reform groups, meaning protection of vulnerable groups, groups that have the right to receive social benefits, the second is improving the financial sustainability of the health system, which I agree with my HNS counterpart, will certainly help further implement the health system reform and Minister Milinovic. Finally, improving the short and long-term sustainability of the pension system, which should mean that there will be no problem with pension payments and the repayment of debt to pensioners during 2010. This loan is provided under particularly good conditions. So it's about 200 thousand euros per 15.5 years at an interest rate of about 2%, and we have to agree, regardless of the criticisms coming from the other side of the assembly, that in times like this, one favourable loan coming from abroad means we don't touch credit potentials in the Republic of Croatia, we leave them to entrepreneurs, to the owners, meaning the loan comes from abroad, we have to accept it and God forbid these loans to be in the coming times under such favourable conditions. Congratulations to the employees of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the excellent terms of loans coming in the spring of this year to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47168	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Thank you, Secretary of State. He doesn't have the need for further address. That concludes this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47169	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Development Policy in the fiscal, social, financial sector, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 508, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Development Policy in the fiscal, social, financial sector. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was passed by a majority vote with 104 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47170	We're moving to agenda item four. - Final draft law confirming the Protocol to prevent water pollution due to navigation along the Framework Agreement in the Sava River Basin, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 504 The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've received the proposal in boxes. In determining the agenda, the Proposer proposed and we agreed that the debate should be conducted in an emergency procedure and that means, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the first and second reading be pooled. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. Reports from the board's meeting were received on the benches. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Here is Mr. Mario Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47171	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just a few words about a law confirming the Protocol to prevent the pollution of the Sava River due to navigation. Ladies and gentlemen, although ships on inland waterways and at sea are the smallest traffic pollutants, it has nevertheless begun very early to unify regulations that prevent sea pollution from being polluted in the 1960s and for the last ten years regulations on preventing inland waterway pollution have been unified. This agreement will regulate the relationship between the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia to prevent the polluting of the Sava River, which is also sung in our anthem and whose purity we consider extremely important. This Agreement lays down the conditions to be met by ships, means which equipment and devices must be met, and then the conditions which must be met by ports where ships are unloaded and waste and harmful substances on land, as well as cases of intervention if the Sava River would be polluted. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe this will contribute to maintaining the purity of the Sava River. The state budget provides the means to implement this agreement and can say that our city and port of Sisak are already meeting the requirements of the protocol and we expect that this or the following year the city of Slavonski Brod will meet it. Please support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47172	Thank you very much, Secretary. Do the reporters on behalf of the clubs want to take a word? No, I don't. If we don't, we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished colleague of MPs Mirela Holy. She's gone. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the proposer. I would like to remind you that, at the end of last year, in December 2009, in this House, we adopted the Final Proposal for the Water Law, as well as the Water Economy Financing Act, which in fact brought the Croatian legislation into line with the European rules in the area of water, thus setting up a legal framework for the transposition of European relevant directives into our own legal area. The fact is that the Sava River represents a very important link between our interests within the subregion in various areas, primarily economical but also transportable, as well as potential in the area of tourism development, but indirectly a number of others. Sava is an extremely important infrastructure and transport corridor that connects four countries and, by its waterway, represents a significant incentive for the development of the economy of the countries in this bay, although as far as Croatia is concerned, we cannot be satisfied with the level of concern for the development of Sava as a waterway or the level of capacity utilisation that we have, at least in its watery part from Sisak until we leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement signed on 3 December 2002 by the Republic of Croatia, even 8 years or 7 years ago and some years ago in Kranjska Gora and ratified on 29 December 2004, a protocol on the prevention of water pollution was joined as a result of navigation. We would be interested and sorry that you do not have information in the accompanying document, which has been made by other countries co-signatures of this Framework Agreement and of the Protocol itself, so at which stage the ratification of the Protocol on the Prevention of Water Contamination as a result of navigation with regard to the framework agreement on the other three countries. The protocol itself on preventing water pollution is signed in June, 1st of last year in Belgrade. We appreciate the fact that this protocol defines the objective, in particular the prevention, control and reduction of pollution caused by vessels, the establishment of technical requirements for the equipment of port facilities and mutual information related to the problem, as well as the development of response measures in the event of the spilling of dangerous substances and, of course, only the monitoring of the quality of the Sava River water. If we adopt this law, we will enable the full application of this Protocol between the four states and the entry into force of this law and the Protocol will fully regulate our mutual relations in the prevention and control of pollution. It should be said that the European Union has already defined technical requirements when it comes to vessels. Similarly, there is a European code to determine the possibility of using waterways, and in this sense, by this protocol, we are actually making European legal standards closer to our daily need than a country exploiting the Sava River. What is good, this protocol defines the establishment of a sufficiently dense network of reception stations on the waterway for the disposal of wastewater itself from the vessel, so we take over about those standards that apply to the sea, which we have long ago defined. Technical requirements for the fitting of port facilities and other reception stations and the handling of any possible spilling of materials or materials that pollute water or the environment shall be equally prescribed. It is extremely important to keep track of water quality. We support the proposal of this law as a Croatian People's Party club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47174	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party, distinguished colleague Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47175	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State and Director of the Department of Transport. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the Protocol to prevent water pollution as it is one of the implementation documents related to the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement, which brings the Republic of Croatia to its local, international action in relation to Western Balkan countries in the standards it seeks to protect and preserve the environment. I would therefore not agree with the predecessor who has criticised the Republic of Croatia's behaviour when it comes to environmental protection and water protection. With a fundamental obligation to take all measures to effectively prevent, monitor and reduce ship pollution, we here see a wider application of measures to prevent pollution in the form of preparation and supply of equipment needed to prevent and limit pollution from land. In view of the relatively small item of only 200 thousand kunas provided for in the budget for the implementation of this Protocol, it may be concluded that port captains on the Sava or relatively well equipped with the necessary equipment to prevent and limit pollution or supply and the necessary equipment is carried out within other activities and programmes related to pollution from the mainland and would therefore be asked to clarify the Secretary of State. We can also conclude that the water quality monitoring measures or equipment that we possess at a satisfactory level and we appeal to the rapid establishment of an information system on water quality as part of the Sava River information system that could be used for other applications, such as land pollution control and water quality monitoring even for bathing. We would like to say that, regardless of the date of entry into force of the agreement, for the sake of the interests of the protection of the environment and the Sava River, Croatia needs to establish its system of action and to draw up the necessary information system modelling other European countries applying the European Code for Internal Waterways. The European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Substances by Inland Waterways, and the launch of activities in the preparation of projects for the establishment of this information system at international level. This is important in order to take on a leading role, in cooperation with the other members of the Framework Agreement, in establishing the provisions of the Protocol using the European Union funds for international cooperation in the protection of water and the environment. But I want to point out the following facts. At this point, there are national mechanisms governing this area, such as the Water Act, and international agreements such as the ESPO Convention and the corresponding protocols, which in its immediate environment are the only signatories of the Republic of Croatia. We at HSS have warned of this in a series of debates in the Croatian Parliament because it is always a question of the purpose of signing new protocols or new conventions by the Republic of Croatia when we know that countries in the environment do not sign those protocols or are held if they are signed by those protocols. I will remind only of the ongoing case of the refinery in the Bosnian Ship that has a direct impact on Slavonski Brod not only on the Sava but also the pollutants that manifest through the difficulty breathing of Slavonski Brod citizens. Despite all our appeals and warnings, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is specifically here about Republika Srpska is not a signator of the ESPO Convention. And we have more serious problems that we unfortunately cannot influence, so despite all our efforts to protect Sava and protect the environment, we are witnessing that very often oil stains from the refinery in the Bosnian Ship are now moving to our side, i.e. to pollute the Sava as well as business that is not in line with the standards of environmental protection from the refinery in the Bosnian Ship has a direct impact on air quality in Slavonski Brod. I must also say that Croatia has a history of effective treatment in all cases of water pollution. The holder of this system is the Croatian Water with its established methods, technologies, procedures, contracted legal entities and funds, as referred to in Article 6 of this Protocol. These activities are also fully in line with the legal structure of the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, is in line with the European Union and with their legislation. The documents governing the treatment of the old law are an intervention plan in the event of sudden water pollution, and the new plan is in the process of adoption and, of course, the new Water Act will be adopted. It is, of course, sensitive mechanisms that must be fully adapted to the structure of the Republic of Croatia, and I must remind you that we have these mechanisms worked through the Centre 112, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and the MUP. Therefore, it may be necessary to consider whether it is necessary to establish a new system when we talk about the Sava Commission, the Framework Directive and this Protocol, because we sometimes seem to set up double systems of action, and this also comes from reading certain articles of this Agreement. For this reason, we consider it necessary to make full use of the existing capacities that Croatian institutions today have, therefore, the State Administration for the Protection and Rescue of both MUP and Croatian Waters. But that's where I have to add the employed County Public Health Services, and the Port Captains on the Sava River. We seem wise to unite resources, and based on the existing development of the possibilities of upgrade and coordination of all activities, of course, applying to inter-regional funding assistance programmes. As referred to in Article 6 of the Protocol on successful monitoring in the outflow of the competent authorities of each Party, it shall draw up and implement a set of best available technologies and other measures and shall inform the Sava Commission thereof. I will remind you that mechanisms and procedures already exist in Croatian legislation. As a result, we may consider passing on our good experiences to the partners of this protocol, although I have information that Slovenia is not actively participating, and as I said to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia is not signatories or other related international agreements. But maybe we can use it and sell them "know how." Therefore, the system of action therefore exists in the Republic of Croatia, we can also put it in a communication channel according to the Sava Commission which will coordinate international activities. We will support this protocol, but we urge that the international acts of Croatia be taken care of. Because in this particular case, we consider our legislation and system of action to be extremely good in practice. In the HSS, we also suggest that the headquarters of the Sava Commission, which is now in Zagreb, be moved to Sisak or Slavonski Brod, because in these two cities as well as their people are deeply connected to the Sava, and one and the other cities are unfortunately exposed to various contaminants that have an impact on the Sava River. Therefore, we think that just now decentralisation, i.e. the accommodation of the Sava Commission headquarters in Sisak or Slavonski Brod, would contribute significantly to improving the state of protection and the Sava River, as well as citizens living alongside the Sava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47176	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, participation in the debate will be taken by a distinguished counterpart, Mato Biljic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47177	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. After so many years that the Sava River has lived since the war to this day in both the Homeland War and the Slavonski Brod refineries, the refinery in the Bosnian Ship and Sisak, it is high time to protect itself not only as a water and economic segment but also that part of the water in the corridor that significantly affects the groundwater, and the groundwaters are certainly full of our wells that the entire Brod-Posavina County uses and uses for drinking water. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, signed by the Republic of Croatia on 3 December 2002 in Kranjska Year and ratified on 29 December 2004, joined the development of a Protocol to prevent water pollution following navigation in the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement, with the aim of preventing and reducing pollution in the sea. In the definition of vessels and floating facilities, the vessels are boats, skates as well as technical vessels. While we have floating facilities that also pollute the Sava River a lot, especially those tributaries that enter the Sava River. These are residential units, restaurants, workshops, warehouses, Ponton bridges, floating hangars and waterways. When I read this protocol, it's very worrying how many of them there are in the definition of potential contaminants. So there are over 25 plus means these refineries that are just outside the Sava River. Waste resulting from vessels from the operation of a cargo waste vessel, waste resulting from a vessel including ingested fat waste and other waste resulting from the operation of the vessel... fatty waste, oil waste, blizzard water, oil waste, usable filters, cloths, containers, waste packaging,... wastes, non-usable engine oil, exchanger, hydraulic equipment, blizzard water, water in a bilge machinery, waste oil, lubricating oil from the lubricating pads of other lubricating equipment. Well then sanitary waters, water from kitchens, dining rooms, bathrooms, toilets, washrooms and other equipment of human waste water, household waste, food leftovers, soils, grain mud, rust and mud, other special wastes. The rest of the cargo that remains means after landing, and... the warehouses that are washed in the river, drain the tank, vacuumers, equipment storage tanks, cleaning manually or mechanically, washing, washing water, reception stations, oil, crude oil, fuel, solvent oil, dangerous materials, then we get to the most dangerous, which is when there is an accident, that is, when there is an accident, that is, the crash, the disaster and other external forces. I must tell you that without a good law, we will surely and enforce a good law on the river Sava itself, that we will be left without drinking water and without one and one and the plant and animal world if either country, or the third country, and with this and as a fourth, do not adhere to this part. This protocol applies to the entire Sava River, meaning from Erzica to the Kolubara stream and then Drina, Bosnia, Vrbas, Una and Kupa. So those rivers that are simply slightly larger rivers, which pour themselves into the Sava River and certainly will contribute to reducing the pollution of the Sava River, but not only the protocol, but also the co-operation between all these countries to see how simple this regulation is, that is, how respected they are on the ground. Because I think that's enough, Sava is pretty polluted from all this stuff that's going on on those boats and plus it's dropping out of these refineries. With regard to all the above mentioned club HDZ will support the confirmation of this protocol and we must say however important the Sava River is for us from Sisak to the valley, that it is watery, that our economic segment is, but the most important part is because of drinking water in our county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47178	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. There's a song that says, "When Sava heads for the boat," I won't go any further. Namely, here we have before us a proposal of the Law to confirm the protocol on the prevention of water pollution as a result of navigation in the Sava River Basin with the final proposal of the law. It is clear that the HDSSB club will also raise its hand for this bill confirming this protocol between me and the Republic of the former Yugoslavia in connection with the prevention of pollution of the Sava River's waters. So it's about the right tributaries of the Sava River exclusively from the Kupa, Una, Vrbasa, Bosnia, Drine and Kolubara, as far as I've seen here to the place where they're actually imaginary of water. Because today they are not actually a waterway or a river of Sava, which he tried to enter a German tourist ship from the Danube a few months ago, so it is not further from the Parish, he did not even manage to land in the parish because Sava is not watery. Today we are witnessing that the state of Croatia invests in the regional waterway of Eastern and Western Slavonia with draw stations in the eastern part of Brod-Posavina County and Vukovar-Srijem County. So, the area of the municipalities of Sikirevci, Gundinci, Babin Greda from S.H.I.E.L.D., and on that side west of the municipality... And that is why, as counterpart Biljić said, it is very important to sign this protocol, but when we are talking about the tributaries of the Sava River and the possibilities and imagined sailing of some 5 km upstream of Una or Drina, which is still unimaginable today, we must also mention the pollutants not covered by this protocol here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, this protocol regulates, which is good, water facilities and ships as it writes floating objects here and everything else that is stationed or moving along the Sava River. In Slovenia, the Sava River cools nuclear reactors. There used to be a cellulose in Drava which was located and whose original canal went to the Unac or Unac stream, then Una and Sava. There was a cellulose factory in Banja Luka on the river Vrbas. In Prijedor, on the river Sana, the tributaries of the Una, there was a plant of cellulose as well. About Bosnia, the river Bosnia, and the plants... Fog and refineries of the Modricks, etc., not to speak. About the river Drina, too. So this protocol regulates only one segment of the wide pollution to say the lepers that regulates only one small, small segment in all possible contaminants of the Sava River. In Slavonski Brod there is also and I would say the settlement of waterfront facilities, there are 200 attached to the coast. It's so-called. Skulary settlement. And they are covered and covered by the regulations and measures prescribed and provided for in this Protocol on the prevention of pollution, which is good, in any case good. However, we are witnesses who live next to the Sava, and I will not say the elemental disasters but the high water condition of the Sava River because of the abundant rainfall, the melting of snow, etc. And then Sava floats and sails better if I don't talk because here someone might get sick, and that part and that section of the Sava River pollution isn't covered by this protocol. Maybe I'm under-informed, maybe there's another protocol that this Sava Commission that's listed here in this material regulates these problems too. In this case, 25 figures and 25 possible contaminants of the Sava River from waste generated on board are listed in Article 1. to the point cc boating accident, dangerous substance bb, etc. So I would ask myself, in view of what I said, that is, on the vast tanks of drinking water in the underground and are bound in any case by the Sava River's groundwaters, whether we will as a state, as a Parliament, as a government insist on this much, much wider area of pollution than the navigation itself, even though I deny the possibility of polluting the Sava River and because of these water facilities or those stationed on the Sava River. In any case, counterpart Petir mentioned this unfortunate oil refinery in the Bosnian Ship with antiquated technology that pollutes both air and water in its surroundings, or pollutes the Sava River, but even more so-called. The air pollution that makes us boatmen quite cough in this House but we still can't prevent it and we can't regulate it, because this other side of the right-hand side of Sava unfortunately doesn't have a lot of hearing. On several occasions I also spoke in the County of Brod-Posavina and here in the Parliament about the fact that we also signed an agreement here between the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, a three-way agreement offering 2 million and 300,000 euros in grants to the European Union, so Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, to give joint programmes to improve the environment, economy, etc. And yet neither local, regional self-government nor here have we reached any agreement with this other side in order to withdraw these grants and money so that this unfortunate oil refinery that is of any importance to the Bosnian Ship, the formerly Bosnian Ship, today the Ship and this Slavon ship and all the ships that exist at last do something to make technology and I don't think that these are expensive procedures that would be entirely satisfactory, which would be satisfied with the funds from these grants, possibly some filter, etc. to improve the environmental standards of this unfortunate refinery. I also welcome Mrs. Petir's initiative, MP Petir, pardoning the seat of the Savo Commission's seat in order to say first Slavonski Brod and then Sisak. Since Slavonski Brod is halfway between therefore exactly halfway between there are other reasons why we have a refinery like Sisak, but I say it is exactly halfway to the waterway somewhere between our border and Sisak. I remember '93. the year when the late President Tudjman who also led the government took care of the Sava River and we once really thought it would be watery and to Zagreb, and then by boat Sisak Lode from Sisak came to Rugvica, right. Those who are older, to Rugvica yes. However, today, this German number could not even sail to the parish. It's the negligentness of all governments again. Don't think I'm talking about HDZ, but also about the SDP and their coalition partners, not caring about Slavonia and not caring about the potentials that the Sava River brings to an end through which it flows and passes. For 18 years we have been talking about river ports, 18 years we are talking about the tourist potential that the Sava River can provide both the environment and landscape that provides, flora, fauna, hunting, fishing, etc. But here's unfortunately none of it, and now here on the table is the pollution protocol. No one clears the river of Sava, nor does they sail ships. This is a protocol for the future. I hope it will be a near future, but if we continue like this, it will be a further future. And there's something else I wanted to say. We don't just have a river of Sava in terms of a river that borders and connects and separates. We have Danube and unresolved even border problems, and soon before Serbia we will enter the European Union, and then we will have a dispute for our territories, our territory catastrian, grants over 6,000 acres from the left side of the Danube, and it still stands completely even though it is not the topic of today's debate, it is not today's topic, but it is also not your portfolio that needs to be accounted for. There's this Ministry of Foreign Affairs and everyone else is, you need to take care of it, because then we'll have a problem as well as the Savudrian Wave or the Piran Bay. In any case, the HDSSB club will support the bill's proposal to confirm the protocol without further delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47180	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Petar Mlinaric, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I welcome representatives from the ministry. Proposal for a Law confirming the protocol to prevent water pollution following navigation under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, with the final proposal for a law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer to the Croatian Parliament in the procedure of validation or ratification. The four countries of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in June 2009 the Republic of Serbia concluded an agreement in Belgrade under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement and in line with the guidelines on technical requirements applicable to internal navigation rules agreed at the European level of the European Inland Waterway Code and the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Substances by Inland Waterways. It is clear that in this way the Protocol in question is in line with the European standards which highly value environmental protection, which provide for procedures and measures to prevent water pollution caused by internal water transport which brings the Republic of Croatia closer to membership of the European Union as it has been identified for the adoption of high standards of water protection due to navigation, as they create a basis for further improvement of environmental performance in order to achieve the objectives of nature protection during the use of inland waterways. Although the protocol refers to the Sava River Basin and its tributaries, it is known that the Sava basin is part of the Danube painting, so it extends indirectly to a part of the larger basin, the Danube basin because the Danube River is the tributary. I am absolutely convinced that this Code of Confirmation of the Protocol is unconditionally to be supported. But why? Because it norms the possibility of taking measures to implement protocol regulations, Member States of the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement to effectively prevent, monitor and reduce ship pollution and navigation as an opportunity to carry out appropriate pollution procedures. The Protocol provides for the establishment of a sufficiently dense network of reception cells on the waterway for disposal and the type of waste, as well as methods, coordination and activities related to this. The waste generated on board shall be collected and delivered in accordance with national regulations to reception stations in ports or elsewhere designated for the reception of waste generated on board. The Protocol lays down technical requirements for the equipment of port facilities and other reception cells, the treatment of water-freezing matter, water quality monitoring and the implementation of provisions on the prevention, control and reduction of water pollution due to navigation, cross-border cooperation in order to prevent and monitor pollution from vessels. By entering into force of this law, the protocol will become part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and then there will be no more possible waste from ships of water, oil, vines of oil, fecal water, solid waste etc. to throw into the river rather than create assumptions that such waste is effectively taken care of and does not pose a risk to the environment and to human and animal health. I have checked in the relevant ministries, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure that the implementation of this law in the state budget has provided financial resources in 2009 and projections for 2011 and 2012 have been made, which adds optimism that the implementation of the protocol itself will be achieved very quickly. This law is good and should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47182	Thank you very much. Following the debate, a colleague named Ivan Shantek reported. Comrade Shantek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47183	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This law regulates issues concerning the taking of measures necessary for the effective prevention, control and reduction of water pollution due to navigation, pollution prevention measures through the establishment of regulatory requirements and requirements for port and other reception stations, accident measures with the use of best available techniques and technologies. The Protocol on the prevention of water pollution due to navigation under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement aims to prevent, monitor and reduce pollution... in navigation, identifying technical requirements for port equipment and developing the best available techniques to prevent pollution and water pollution control technologies due to navigation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Protocol also applies to newly designed vessels and vessels whose reconstruction and modernisation will begin after its entry into force as well as to all other vessels with regard to the obligation to collect and store waste with a view to... for waste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The implementation of this Protocol Confirmation Act will have a financial impact on the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2010, 2011 and the following years. The Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, on the basis of that Protocol, provides that the necessary budgetary resources for implementation in 2010 and 2011 and for the following years will be in the amount of EUR 200 000 provided in the budgetary position of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. The implementation of this law in part is the central authorities of the state administration responsible for the affairs of the sea, transport and infrastructure and for environmental protection, spatial planning and construction. The responsibilities for the realization have port administrations. On the date of entry into force of this Act, the Protocol referred to in Article 1 of this Act shall be without effect and the data on its entry into force will be published in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. I would like to stress here that the Port Authority of Sisak as the executive body of part of this international protocol has already taken certain steps in its realization. The construction of navigations for vessels on the Sava River in Sisak pool Galdovo opened the possibility of new construction and refurbishing of vessels, as well as checks and controls prescribed by the rules for the technical control of inland navigation ships in the Croatian Register of Ships. The presence of a larger number of vessels in the port administration aquarium Sisak conditioned the need for faster technological recovery of existing shipbuilding facilities in an environmentally acceptable way. Thus was the reconstruction of the tank jar in... The foundations of the bridge were built... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and resisting nests of bouncers and a decorated access deck on which the work of larger ship-building can take place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, conditions were created for the supply of drinking water, electricity, deforestation and... water and by draining the fecal waters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The value of these works was approximately 3 million kuna. The project's investor was the port administration and financial resources were provided by the ministry. The port administration of Sisak informed all business entities that from 1 April of last year in the port area of the port administration of Sisak it is possible to serve the boat with drinking water, service the vessel with electricity, accept the bilge and... water from the vessel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will be used by landing the vessel with Ponton Barbara. For those services, the Port Authority of Sisak will charge according to the control changes in the costs of water and electricity, and the acceptance of bilge... from the vessel Port Administration Sisak will provide in accordance with the contract with companies authorised to dispose of hazardous substances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The acceptance of fecal, ominous and... The water, as well as its disposal, will be carried out from a floating ponton according to the applicable regulations of the Croatian Ship Register for floating bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is evident from the above that as a recent member of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia has already taken certain measures under this Protocol, which will be very important in the future. For all of this, I will accept the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47184	Thank you very much. A colleague, Zdravko Kelić. Next, he applied for a hearing with counterpart Kelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47185	Dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. By passing this law, the protocol will become part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and the standards provided for therein will also apply in other countries of the signatories of the Protocol when they ratify it. All this will lead to the unification of legal practice when the protocol begins to apply which will connect the four countries, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia in an effort to achieve all the protocols provided for in nature for the purpose of protecting the environment when it comes to preventing water pollution due to navigation. The International Sava River Basin Organisation, the Sava Commission, has coordinated the work on the drafting of this Protocol, which is nevertheless based on the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement, which includes standards in accordance with the guidelines on technical requirements applicable to inland navigation vessels agreed at the European level of the European Inland Waterway Code, the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Substances by Inland Waterways. All of the above shows that, when drawing up the Protocol, European environmental standards in the field of inland waterway navigation are respected, which is a significant contribution from the Republic of Croatia to the adoption of the legal acquis of the European Union. The Protocol provides for the implementation of measures and procedures to prevent water pollution caused by internal water transport, as well as monitoring, and subsequently to reduce possible pollution. The Protocol provides for the establishment of a network of reception stations on the waterway for waste disposal due to navigation and the way and coordination of activities related to this. The waste generated on board should be collected and delivered in accordance with national regulations to reception stations in ports or elsewhere designated for the reception of waste generated on board. The Protocol prescribes technical requirements for the equipment of port facilities and other reception cells, treatment in case of spilling of substances that pollute water and water quality monitoring. The port administrations of internal waters in Sisak and Slavonski Brod who are in charge of setting up reception stations for the reception of waste from ships have already started activities, so the reception station at the port of Sisak is already in use, and in Slavonski Brod it will be by the end of this year. Although the protocol itself shows that only from the date of its entry into force is the five-year deadline for setting up a network of reception stations for the reception of waste. This Protocol Confirmation Act draws us closer to membership in the European Union and shows the willingness of the Republic of Croatia to fully meet the assumptions for environmental protection when it comes to preventing water pollution due to navigation, and therefore I am giving it full support and I will accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47186	Thank you, colleague Kelic. His right to apply for the debate is used by distinguished counterpart Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. The Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin of Croatia was signed in Kranjska Gora in 3.12.2002 and ratified on 29.12.2004. That same year, a protocol on the prevention of water pollution following sailing in the Sava River Basin was joined. The Protocol on the prevention of water pollution due to navigation aims at: 1) preventing, controlling and reducing pollution from vessels in navigation, 2) setting out technical requirements for port equipment, 3) developing the best available techniques to prevent pollution and water pollution control technologies due to navigation. This law confirms the Protocol on the prevention of water pollution following navigation under the Sava River Basin Agreement in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. All of this for the implementation of this law will be secured in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure for 2010, 2011 and the following year. Like my predecessors, I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47188	Thank you, colleague Djurdjevic. And since the time for the application is up, the last application for an individual hearing is the application of the distinguished colleague Mirela Holy. My colleagues, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47189	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to begin by saying that I will support the adoption of this proposal for a law on the certification of the Protocol on the Prevention of Water Contamination as a result of navigation under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, which is protected from the pollution of water from vessels other than the Sava River and the Kolubara River, Drina, Bosnia, Vrbas, Una and Kupa River. I think it's an extremely important protocol and a follow-up to this law on confirming this protocol for a number of reasons. The first is that this protocol is the result of the co-operation and arrangement of four neighbouring countries, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, and it is extremely important that we work closely with neighbouring countries on issues of importance for the environment. This protocol is good because it strengthens regional co-operation, which in the international context is also very important for the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but the most important benefit of this protocol validation law is certainly better protection of our water resources than pollution. Although pollution from vessels is not the biggest environmental threat to our water resources, we must certainly welcome protection measures against all forms of pollution. I remind you, the state of water protection in the Republic of Croatia is not good and this is a situation that is unfortunately not only for years but for decades. In Croatia, water is unfortunately not treated as a strategic resource. This is evident from an inadequate system or even the absence of a wastewater management system, and from the fact that in Croatia as many as 60% of the population do not have a sewer connection, which is a basic prerequisite for the construction of waste water treatment systems. It should also be noted that in many cities in Croatia, the losses from the water network amount to a scandalous 40%, and we must not ignore even the alarming lack of education of the population in terms of the importance of water protection. And on this occasion, I will stress that it is regrettable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not recognise the importance of education of the population for rational and responsible water consumption as a priority political issue, and what is evident from the fact that no public campaign has been carried out under HDZ, which would draw the public's attention to this extremely significant problem. Although most of the provisions adopted by this Protocol Confirmation Act are already defined by the resolution laws, in the first row recently adopted by the Water Law, but also by the Environmental Protection Act, I still positively assess all additional insurance companies whose aim is to raise the level of environmental protection. It is good that this law and protocol work to prevent pollution, because it is most important if we want to be proactive in terms of environmental protection and all natural resources. In medicine it is said "it is better to prevent, rather than treat" and in this direction we should think when we talk about all aspects of environmental policy. When we talk about preventing river pollution from the vessel, the most important measure to be implemented is certainly the implementation of the technological and environmental best reception systems and the treatment of waste water and matter from vessels in the river ports, along with the parallel modernisation of existing vessels and high ecological standards for future vessels. Although this Protocol Confirmation Act comes into force only when all States signatories confirm, i.e. in national parliaments ratify the protocol, and we have not received any information in the material when it is expected to be, I believe that 200000 kunas that the state plans to single out this year for modernising ports and building up reception systems and cleaning waste water and material from vessels are not exactly a figure that we can expect more significant results and positive shifts, and the fact is that the situation in river ports is not exactly commendable for the reception and processing of waste and waste water. I am aware that the texts of international agreements cannot be changed, but yet I am expressing a certain reserve according to, in my opinion, a insufficiently ambitious provision under which the release of sanitary water is prohibited for passengers with cabins with more than 50 beds and only three years from the entry into force of this Protocol. On the one hand, it seems to me too long a delay in application, and on the other hand too many beds and persons for vessels. In other words, I believe it was necessary to reduce the number of beds for vessels which obliges the ban on the release of fecal and sanitary waters directly into the rivers. It is also quite a long deadline to equip ports for international transport with the necessary reception stations. The deadline is five years, and I believe that Croatia must and can do this extremely important job within a short period of time, of course not with 200000 kuna per year as is now foreseen. I particularly welcome the provision on the obligation of regular water quality monitoring and the establishment and maintenance of an information system on water quality in the Sava River System, as I find this extremely important because it enables the taking of earlier protection measures against potential pollution. Finally, I would like to say that I welcome these laws and international protocols aimed at raising the quality of the environment and natural resources, but I am expressing hope that this positive regulation too will not remain just a declarative commitment, not a real mechanism of positive change that we have seen in Croatia so far, unfortunately, too many times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47190	Thank you very much. And final secretary of state, Mr. Mario Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just briefly answer some questions. First, the status in other states of the signatories of the agreement is also currently in the procedure in parliaments. As regards the issue raised, about £ 200000 provided for in the state budget, they are intended for the preparation of project documentation for the Port Authority in Slavonski Brod, followed by the construction of the device. What you have asked the question of the size of the ship, namely it is not only regulated by this agreement, but these are criteria that are regulated by European, relevant European directives. I thank everyone who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47192	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That's what we're doing today. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. And notice that they'll vote around 12:00, so I'm inviting you to be in the assembly. Thank you. Point five. [[Intruder Secretary: Which point do we continue with?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-04-0.u47193	And Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Prevention of Water Contaminants as a result of navigation under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 504, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Protocol on the prevention of water pollution following navigation under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 106 votes. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. I welcome you and we will continue our work. At first, I would like to repeat once again that at 12 o'clock we would have a vote on the points of the agenda, so I ask the clubs to make sure that from now on we ensure the quorum for those decisions. We have one item on the enlargement agenda so this one after that would be a vote and then we have one mandate to confirm. We've established one rhythm to do Friday mornings, to vote on the agenda points that we've crossed over the week, and for no particular reason, we shouldn't even change one of these, we can get there, and if there's a need to extend, then we'll inform you in due time. Thank you very much, we move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on waterway navigation and their technical maintenance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 506 The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Mario Babic. Here you go.
