ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65203	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Let us begin with the session. 1st item of the agenda this morning is - - A report on the business of companies of special national interest for 2009 The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted this report on the basis of Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and of point 2. Decisions concerning the list of companies of particular national interest. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and by the Committee on Economic Affairs. You've received reports. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the report? Of course. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dr. Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65204	... MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Here are a few sentences to present this report which, as we have heard from the introduction of Ms Vice-President of the Assembly, a report on the business of companies of special interest, which was drawn up in accordance with the decision of the 2009 Croatian Parliament, primarily on the list of these companies, and also on what we are and how we have in fact determined that the Government will refer it to the Parliament by the end of September of the current year for the previous year. So this is the first time such a report will be discussed, it gives insight into the business of 69 selected economic operators and the report only has a total of 196 pages with corresponding table views. Otherwise, the data on the basis of which this report has been drawn up are based on official data, which include basic company financial reports, i.e. the group for 2009, but also for 2008 to see some comparisons, and on business reports for 2009, profit-sharing decisions, i.e. covering losses achieved by companies or individual groups. Let me also start by giving a few, I would say the technical, or methodological notes that are important, since I say once again for the first time we are discussing this one report. The report is an analytical material that provides, in one place, basic data and business characteristics for companies, i.e. groups that are declared of particular national interest, with a note that in this set of 69 companies, or companies, we have companies in which the Republic of Croatia owns only about 20% and of course up to 100 percent share in the ownership structure. All of them include 110 thousand and 504 employees. This report, of course, gives a comprehensive view of the business of selected economic operators by applying different types of analytical but also financial indicators indicating the business of a particular company. It should also be said that in these 69 companies, i.e. the group includes banks, public institutions, but also companies, but of course other companies. However, when I mention banks and public institutions, that is why one purely methodological, methodological note should be noted. Therefore, it is very difficult to see that there are different criteria, accounting methodologies, were in fact in a way and challenging to combine all these reports and translate them in one comparable way or you yourself know that credit institutions, or banks fall under one law, public institutions and their accounting, their methodology is defined in other regulations, and companies are also third. For this reason, we also pray in a way that understands certain indicators and data, but we believe that we have succeeded in uniting and, in some way, giving the most important thing that is really the essence of the whole story. What is important is also to point out that in a number of companies that have been analysed, restructuring processes are being carried out, but also privatisation preparations in line with strategic decisions and the newly adopted concept of the privatisation model. I mention this first of all for the reason that this aspect certainly has a major impact on the overall results of the business, which, of course, I mean the shipbuilding industry. However, it is also necessary to mention others individually. When we talk about assessing the business of selected companies, it is also important to point out that in 2009, both in the overall Croatian economy and in the private sector, and in this sector, which in part or majority of state-owned property, therefore certainly was a challenging year, so the financial and economic crisis that was reflected and felt very well in the business of these companies, I think we should also very clearly mention that in 2009 we were doing a lot in this segment of companies in the majority state-owned sector in order to correct certain anomalies in terms of settlement of commitments, so you know that we have done a lot of work for a time, and I think that the results are more than visible, in terms of reducing the liquidity of these companies, and I say the indicators are just that. Of course, it was not a characteristic and only a feature in 2009, but we continued with these measures in 2010. Otherwise, what is important to mention, therefore, is that these factors of the financial and economic crisis that can be seen and viewed as external factors for the business of these state-owned enterprises, it is important to mention that in 2009, we launched a series of measures to one, I would say by internal rationalisation of business and some other measures actually implemented internal restructuring of these companies in order to respond to the challenges of time as best and as effectively as possible. You yourself know that the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been well focused precisely on rationalising business, so, here I will just mention within 21 companies you know that in this report we are expanding to 69, but otherwise 21 companies follow quarterly. The 21 largest total savings in 2009 alone amounted to 1.8 billion kuna. Of course, the rationalisation of business and savings is not only self-serving as such and should not be, especially in these conditions, but our intention was and was still so that these rationalisation measures free up additional space in these companies themselves so that they could be positioned as best and as efficiently as possible on the market, but also move into a slightly stronger investment cycle of what we have been talking about for the longest time and in fact the most we are working on, where actually these companies should be actually side by side with the private sector in terms of increasing and stimulating investment. What is also important to say, therefore, is that one of the measures and rationalisation have been envisaged and reduced by the number of employees in these companies. You yourself know that in some of these companies it is simply necessary and necessary to carry out certain restrictions even on this segment, so that for this reason we will continue, or continue already in 2010, but of course the story cannot and will not certainly fit there. As for the results achieved in 2009, let me say a few words about basic indicators. Therefore, out of the 69 companies, 29 of them made a profit, also mentioning that the total profit in these companies that were operating with a positive result in 2009 was a billion and 24.4 million kuna. Compared to 2008, some 8% of profits have been achieved in these companies. In this respect, it should be noted that in this segment companies that operated positively the highest weight, Croatia's largest share of electricity was, therefore, the HEP Group which earned a profit of 154.4 million kuna, then PLINACRO and CONČAR ELECTROINDUSTRIA groups of 145 million kuna. By the way, the 3 companies totalled 444.7 million kuna, a total of 43. So almost half the total profits of these mentioned companies. Of course, what is equally important to mention is that these analysed companies which obtained a profit-sharing decision have allocated some of the profits to cover losses from earlier periods in the legal reserves and retained profits for the purpose of providing cash for the purposes of additional investment. I also think that it is important to mention that these very business decisions on the distribution of profits, which is primarily determined as retained profits, in fact clearly points to the responsibility of the owner, i.e. the state which, through a retained profit policy, seeks to generate this additional financial force, and also to create conditions to further encourage development policies, as well as to generate positive business results. As for the rest of the companies, they were doing a negative and total loss in 2009 in these companies that were doing negatively is 4.5 billion kuna. 4.5 billion kunas, I think, should also mention a few individual examples that were actually the largest share in this total loss. First of all, there is, of course, the mention of the shipbuilding industry, which, in addition to everything in 2009, achieved a total loss of 886.7 million kuna, which accounts for 20% of the total loss. Also, a company like VUPIK, which has generated losses in late 2009, was privatised, however, of course their business result of a total of 434.5 million kunas of loss enters the suprare result. It is also very important to mention that the Croatian Post Bank, i.e. the HPB group, also lost in 2009. It should also be mentioned that there are really specific reasons for such a thing since the largest part of this loss of HPB has actually come from increased reservations for poor placements that are in fact kind of recorded in the balance sheet. I can tell HPB right away that in the first 10 months we have positive results and the year will definitely end in plus. It should also be noted in 2009 that INA, which is also one of these 69 companies, also generated the loss of 631.4 million kuna, which is practically 14% of the total loss of all these companies. And the company SUPPORT, which recorded a loss of 287.9 million kuna. What is of course important to mention that regardless of these results and losses, I think it should be mentioned for this year that certain positive developments in the already mentioned Post office bank, but also in some other companies, are already visible. I'll tell you only one preliminary fact since it is not yet final, so only in the first 9 months 21 companies in total, i.e. in the majority state-owned, have achieved a total profit of 2.3 billion kuna, which is a significant increase compared to the first 9 months of last year when it was a profit of 900 million kuna. Furthermore, let me also say something about the measures that continue to be implemented and what will certainly be visible in the 2010 Business Report, so this whole business assessment, but also these new guidelines for improving the business policies of these companies, are certainly not and should not be observed separately, they are part of a single overall economic policy, and so are all of these societies in the majority and also in minority state ownership are part of the overall economic recovery programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So I would also mention a few things that are important for the programme itself and further measures that we plan to do. So you yourself know that the programme also provides for a continuation of the privatisation process with an emphasis on individual segments. I think we all know a particular segment of the shipbuilding industry very well. However, also one good part of what is foreseen by the programme, and what in this report is somehow apostrophe that segment of tourism, i.e. above all hotels should go to that segment. As regards anti-corruption measures, what is important to mention, therefore, that the programme and the Anti-Corruption Strategy, i.e. the action plan that the Government has adopted and which implements, not only applies to the level of the state budget but these companies are also included. So it is also important to mention that they are the overall part and generally do so. measure 37 from the Action Plan for the Corruption Prevention Strategy. The measure that has recently been in the good part of society concreteized and which I hope and believe very quickly and finalised is the choice of members of the Supervisory Board. You remember and you know well that one of the measures that the Government has indicated, and then and now it's going to be implemented is actually that the supervisory committees will be elected and chosen exclusively through competitions. Thus, independent experts who, in fact, by their knowledge, experience and competences should and in some ways should contribute to further improving and improving their business. And also what is of course important to mention for the Economic Recovery Programme itself that, regardless of the individual indicators of these companies, we certainly cannot stop. And in some ways, when you look at this entire report of nearly 200 pages in total, and, of course, individually in certain societies, it is certain that no one can draw the line and evaluate it as extremely satisfactory, or rather, I think that we all need to do very much further work in order to turn rationalization into a better and more efficient business as soon as possible and as possible. Just to mention the fact that all the companies analysed in the report, their total estimated capital is 158 billion kuna. Which means that in the overall economy, they really have a significant participation and that, as such, they need them as much and as much as possible and follow and in some ways direct them to better and more efficient business. What is important also to mention, so the structural reforms that we are talking about and we are discussing, so I repeat once again do not only apply to the central government's business, or segment of the state budget, but in this segment of state-owned enterprises, i.e. minority or majority state-owned enterprises, is something that we all need to work very hard to achieve as a total business climate and in general one, I would say entrepreneurial, and so the investment climate strengthens. For this reason, let me only finally say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, of course, continue to monitor the measures aimed at improving the business of these companies, and also next year submit a new Report on the business of companies in majority state ownership. I believe and I am sure that these data indicators will be significant as well, since I repeat this once again is for the first time a report has been drawn up and I believe that through today's debate we will hear a good part of the suggestions and comments how and in what way this report will only improve in its technical segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65205	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65206	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on business of companies of special state interest for 2009 at the 63rd session held on 6 October 2010. The government's representative pointed out that the report in question is an analytical material which provides basic data and business characteristics for 69 companies. It has also been pointed out that until recently, these companies were mostly indivisible and that the rationalization of the process implemented by the rationalisation process has ceased to be indivisible generators, although they are fine-tuning their obligations, and the savings have been made only in 21 companies for a total amount of billions and 800 million kuna. It was pointed out that total revenues in 2009 were 74 billion and were 16% lower than in 2008, while expenditures were 76 billion and they were lower by 11%. Although revenues dropped by 16%, expenditure fell by 5% lower. This resulted in a total profit of as much as a billion and 24 million kuna in 2009 compared to the year 2008 when 900 million kuna was acquired. Companies generated a loss of 4 billion profits. The Committee notes the satisfaction that for the first time such a report came before the Croatian Parliament, for the first time we have the opportunity to discuss and analyse the business of companies of particular national interest. It's a big turn after 19 years, it's good to discuss how they do business, see what needs to be changed, praise what's good and suggestive for what can be fixed. It has been pointed out that the Government should count and make sure that companies of particular state interest achieve best business results and that this report should therefore be complemented by a presentation of the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to address the problem in these companies. It has been pointed out that the government has already taken a number of measures in terms of rationalisation, we know that in the meantime a salary regulation has been adopted, that salaries have been cut to members of the Supervisory Board, that the rationalisation of the use of cars has been carried out, all of this has affected a more positive financial result of companies. It also noted the need to maintain regular annual congregations, as many companies did not hold the annual assembly within the scheduled time limit, it was noted that some businesses did not hold the assembly at all during that year, and the Committee stressed the need to regulate sanctions for those companies that did not hold a regular meeting or at all. It warned of the problem of paying extremely high salaries, although in the meantime there was a change, but in 2009, there were indeed unacceptable salaries, such as high ones, which were different from the usual ones in Croatia, and in fact the product was in most cases poor business results and losses achieved. It is only pointed out that in "May 3rd" the salary paid is the highest 71 thousand kuna per month, however, it was noted in the debate that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already made a decision on the reduction of salaries so that there will be no more possibility of paying such high wages. In fact, it has been noted and highlighted on the board, there have been cases that have increased losses that have been increased by directors and their salaries. There is not only responsibility for those who have paid themselves so much, but also for those who have granted them such high wages, which are members of the Supervisory Board. It is also pointed out to the Committee that, in the next period and the future report, it should be drawn up in a way that is standardised by respecting all these facts, the diversity of companies, public institutions, banks and, however, that basic and basic data from the Report should be included in the Report to know the name and the headquarters of the company, to know the level of the underlying capital, to know the members of the Supervisory Board, to know who is the chairman of the Supervisory Board, members of the Management Board, that the basic data from the balance sheet of the underlying items from the assets and passports, to calculate the profits and losses from the underlying and to ensure that they are uniformised and that each undertaking equally. But we've had cases here that, in individual, in individual company reports, they have data on salaries, for some they don't. For the first time, this is indeed for every commendation and this is one newspaper in behaviour, relative to state property, compared to the highest potential in the Republic of Croatia. This standardised report should include, in particular, basic business data, basic, liquidity coefficients, self-financing, profit and loss accounts, and, for example, rentability, economics, profitability, business activity, etc. The opinion was also given that special attention should be paid to implementing anti-corruption measures and programmes in public enterprises in order to address the current problems as well as to create conditions for the privatisation of certain companies or certain companies as soon as possible. After the debate, the committee unanimously supported and praised this report, commended what was being made, but with most votes of 7 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, it proposed to the Croatian Parliament that the 2009 Report on business of companies of special state interest be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65207	Thank you very much, dear fellow Maric. I'm opening a debate and I hope that at the end of the debate we can determine whether the glass is half-full or half-empty. We start with clubs. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65208	Ladies and gentlemen of the vice president, the honourable representatives of the government, the esteemed secretary of state. Here's an important topic, for the first time the truth about her is being discussed in this House, but we could've done it before, we could've done it this year before. We received this material and placed it in the agenda of the beginning of the session at the 9th month, and here 2 months has already withdrawn on the bench this material. We could have discussed this matter earlier because it is very important, very important. And we see yesterday from some events that these companies, I'm going to call them state-owned companies where the state has a majority stake, very interesting at least business. These companies are important. Here they are processed the one where the state has its share of over 23% so 69 companies. First of all, 110 thousand employees work in these societies. It's a serious fact to talk about. These are companies that made their incomes of HRK 74 billion, which is about 2/3 of the state budget. So 2/3 of the state budget revolves in these observed companies. Many of them carry out important activities for citizens and for the state of transport, therefore they are important activities and deserve far better attention here in the Parliament. But they are important, but how did they work? They worked as absolutely irrelevant to neither the public nor the state, and when we look at cumulative data and the secretary of state talked about it for a little while, it turns out in fact that where the state is the owner, that he is a bad owner, that he is the bad master of the particular state that has been run this way for the last few years. The cumulative profit of all these companies is a billion and 24 million kuna. But losing is 4.5 times bigger, 4 billion 481 million. And most importantly, they are 35% more losses than they were in the previous 2008 and 2009 is the year of adoption of measures and economic recovery of the government, and we see how this is reflected here. When we talk about getting these companies, I'm going to talk to businesses to make it easier to understand because many people still don't understand what companies mean, we see that this billion kuna profit is very relative. Half of the profits were made by three companies, three public companies, public companies, HEP, Plinacro and Janaf. What are they? Monopolies. They are monopolies, to the price of their service and income they did not come fighting on the market or rational business, but by having the price determined so you have to power how much it is, so you have to pay for all their services as they are. If they took them off, they'd be cut in half. And how much more rational they would have been if they had done business. So HEP has a profit of 154 million, and how much bigger would that gain be if some of the privileged sold cheaper electricity. We see that on Dioki's example here's the subject of the investigation. How many other Diokis might have been there that got cheaper electricity because someone called, someone ordered it. Well, then how much bigger would be the hep's profits? And in the end, there doesn't have to be a big profit of HEP, make it cheaper, make it cheaper for citizens, make it cheaper for those economic operators who are not privileged to get it more favourable. So it could have been safe to work differently. It is mentioned here that savings were made total in that segment somewhere around a billion and 800. You can't see from these materials, though, where those savings are. This can be written, are they real like that, about that, by that. But even if they did, it's not enough. Those billions and 800 are only 2.3% of the total costs of these companies. Under the conditions of such a difficult economic situation and recession, conditional on saving in all places 2.3% is not much of a contribution. So, we aim to make these companies absolutely rational in all segments. I'll take an example of pay, something and now... The lowest salary achieved, for example, in Končar's manufacturing company which is, by the way, business positive with profit is 2 thousand 165 kuna according to the data we got. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example. There's 4000 379 kuna in the sailboat, it's not a manufacturing company. I see it in "3." May's 12 grand and something but it's probably a mistake in that material. The lowest salary in Jadropol's is almost professorial at school, and in "Concar" which is manufacturing is 2,000 and something. Or when we look at the highest salary, we'll take it in the same dam in the shipbuilding. In "Olinik" the highest salary was paid in 2009 net salary of 34,000 kuna, in "3. May 71. When we look at the data "3." You're losing her, and you're losing her. You're losing her. You're losing her. So we've got the upside down. Usually, those who do good work are rewarded, and we seem to be rewarded by those who do bad work. And those who do well, I guess they should be punished. Surely the great responsibility of the management of all these companies for work, so aside from having high wages, someone will say that they are now limited, are finally, after 7 or more years of this behavior, there is no responsibility for their work and for the bad result, but because of that they did not leave, no one has asked to leave because of it, at least those who have the opportunities, those who set it because they obviously meet some other criteria, some other interests. They probably meet party criteria that are not and do not match the interests of the whole society, because it is important that they listen well, and it does not matter how they work. And as long as it's so safe, it's not gonna be good. We see that some societies have not even fulfilled their legal obligation to maintain the congregation of society that they were to do, so we can see that they are boastful of the property they manage. And they manage the property of all of us. Why are state-owned companies doing so? Well, because they were put in that position to do so. On the one hand, their weaknesses are subjective to the management they do, and on the other hand, and probably their installers have allowed them to do so, because they are not asking them to bring good results, but to listen well and to carry out those tasks that are closely party or which are in the interest of certain coalition arrangements. They bring to the owner, the founder, the state of losses, dissatisfied workers, but they all live very well around them. When I say they mean, first of all, the administrative structure of these companies. Their suppliers live well, their customers live well, we see this especially some buyers, for example. ... I said, well-lived members of the administration and, which is very important, well-lived by their installers, the ruling structure, ruling parts of this coalition that set them up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Apparently, they too live very well at the expense of such companies. We see that the great money was being drawn out for the interests of individuals or parties, so anyway, they lived well, and we all pay for it together. Merchant companies in majority ownership were often also a place to meet certain party arrangements, coalition agreements, to take care of the merits, but often also to hire the ruling parties. Let's think of Buljujasic and similar. Clearly, then, no one cared that they were working responsibly and positively but that they were solving some particular interests. Let us look at some examples of how they did business. The Croatian Post Bank, the only significant state-owned bank, achieved a loss in 2009, and in 2009, if anyone lived well, lived well in the banking sector. Banks made 4.5 billion kuna profits in Croatia in 2009, and all worked positively. But the state bank, the Croatian Post Bank, has achieved a loss. The loss is 446 million kuna. Of course, it is said in the explanation that this is due to a reduction in the value of the loan. So it was given by hand and hat, it was given to friends, acquaintances, and who knows why and how, the plasmas were very suspicious, and this country will be rehabilitated. It repeats the same story that we had in the '90s with other state banks, big then state banks, Zagreb, the Privred, which are also under the HDZ rod, and then all together, this whole state, we got rid of it, and then they sold out. So now it is again under the bat of this ruling click and the Croatian Post Bank is being brought into such a position and now it will need this country again and we will all resuscitate probably or who knows what to do with it, anyway cover the loss. Whether it will come from future business, difficult if they continue to do so. If someone else manages this state and this bank, then they may be able to settle down from their own business. On the other hand, when we look at market shares, at this time the market share of the Croatian postal bank was 3.7%, in 2008, it was 4%, so its market share on the market, the banking market, and if it continues to decrease by 0.3% or 0.4% each year, its market share in 10 years will completely disappear, it will fall to 0.5%. But all of this is made possible because apparently management has not set the goal of doing well, of doing business, of acting banking rather than meeting some narrow party or coalition interests. Not to mention Podravka, sometimes our pride in our economy, in 2009, in losses, why, we all know why we shouldn't talk now, because it was going to be another way to control the Podrav, and it was confusing to us at first, but here it all came to light when the Atlantic group, a solid company in Croatia wanted to enter Podravka. No, she said no, she can't go in and fight enemy takeover, and what was now done as a friendly takeover. So it's friendly only friends aren't friends of this country and don't think well of this country but obviously only of themselves. Not to mention the hotel segment. There are many more hotels and tourist groups owned by the state in majority or mostly. Of these 10, 12, 14, that I do not now count the hotels, they are all in losses both Medena and Maestral and Makarska and Plat, Podgora, Živogosce, Korčula, Orebić, Jadran, Croatia, club Adriatic, it is a former property... Everyone's lost. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since only hotels where the state is the majority owner, they can't work, do business with profit, except to say two honorable exceptions to Imperial and Liburnia that have some small profit. So obviously everyone else in the dam can live well, but that's where the state owns it and where the state has set up the administration it's hard to go. This is clearly evidence, therefore, that the state, in particular this state and this ruling set-up, is a bad master, that they have allowed such behaviour, that they have not put before the administration the task of doing so responsibly, that those who are on the market to work with profits, and those who perform public functions or public activities are rational, cheap and that their services are cheap to citizens and the economy. Obviously, therefore, different criteria have been set. The Supervisory Boards should report to them, and in the end, I see that the slow time is going, so this behavior is certainly not good, and it needs to be changed. When will it be able to change and when will it be different? When not all of them live well around companies, suppliers and buyers, and they do not, when only the administrations and these installers, those who have set them up, and the workers do not, when the responsibility for business is sought, and not obedience, when these trading places are not places for the human rights of the ruling coalition and when it is not the employment office of the ruling parties, when that administration is responsible for what it does. And when it can be, then when the government comes to work differently at the state level, when it behaves differently, it will also be able to look for companies it manages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65209	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. My colleague Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65210	Madam Vice President. Well, I would correct the incorrect allegations of representative Jelusic, who said that in Croatia, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development was given a hand and a hat and that they achieved a loss in HBOR, and commercial banks positively meant everything. This is what the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has taken care of businesses, business interests, export interests, production. And the commercial banks you know how, besides that, you've asked for a reduction in their interest, or a tax on those interest rates. And if it were one responsible man, the president of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Mr Kovacev, he heard you were elected President of the European Association of Public Banks. Therefore, if this man is appointed to be one of the presidents of the European Association of Public Banks, then I believe he is also responsible for his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65211	My colleague, I think you've heard something wrong and then blames your correction. A colleague spoke about Postanska Banka, not about the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction Okay. [[And this one and this one. Two banks. I didn't hear anything wrong.]] Let's move on with the debate. HDSSB representative club, MP Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65212	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. This Report contains a business analysis of 69 companies of special state interest and the document is already written on more than 190 pages. At first, I must say, the HDSSB club will not accept this report for several very important reasons, and among them are the following. The first incompleteness of the analysis of the reasons for the very difficult conditions of business of these Croatian economic operators, while the second is the uneven treatment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards companies from Slavonia and Baranja. First group of reasons. In 2009, it was a very difficult year for the entire Croatian economy. Among the reasons of this report are two types of factors of so-called to external factors, among which particular emphasis is given on the impact of the global global crisis and on our economy, and on the so-called internal factors which primarily relate to internal processes in each individual society, and which can be characterised as efficient or inefficient management of internal resources. Both types of factors are justified. The global crisis could not go beyond Croatia, even though it was still in all our ears to respond to the words of the highest officials of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the time of the crisis when the entire Croatian public assured us that this crisis would only make us tick. Today we are witnessing that this crisis in Croatia has not only nicked but it has begun to skin us as well. While countries in Europe and in our closest environment are already coming out of the economic crisis, we are competing with Kyrgyzstan who will be a lantern or at the last place in the current state of the economy. This is not the state of guilt that a global crisis can bear. If there is something global here, then it is the global incompetence of this Croatian government that is already taking epic proportions. When it comes to the so-called. the internal factors then lack the most important internal reasons for the catastrophic state of the Croatian economy in this report. Namely, this report is a lot of phrases that try to justify this situation, but not a word about the most important reason, about the unprecedented robbery of a huge number of precisely these companies of particular national interest. Given everything we've been witnessing lately, the more appropriate name of the Report would be that of societies of particular party interest. We have heard countless times the statements of HDZ's top state-style officials, it's us. From the very statement of such content, they are both dangerous and dangerous for the democratic practice of the Republic of Croatia, but even worse than that is the fact that they did not just stand in words. They've been acting like that for the past seven years. Commercial companies of particular national interest were transformed almost into private companies whose money was being made, shared, bought as desired, placed in a party register or private pockets as well as as what was desired. Among the companies we are discussing today are HEP, Podravka, Croatian Post Bank, Croatian Railways, Croatian Highways. All society to society that for months fills the cover of all media and not just in Croatia. The ruling party is currently facing tectonic disorders, an affair to the affair, indictments to the indictment, arrest until arrest. Many would now give all the missing millions and billions for a peaceful dream or forgiveness. But the nights of wrath are yet to come, and there is no forgiveness for them as much demand. It's not every day St. Nicholas. Unfortunately, all these affairs cost Croatian citizens billions and billions of kuna. HEP 603 million kuna, Podravka between 350 and 500 million kuna, HPB 170 million kuna, Croatian railways 25 million kuna, Croatian highway 22 million kuna. And it's not all Rade Buljubašić, letter to Barba Luka. The sale of HEP's apartments for party personnel into invaluable property. Buying new cars at times of general crisis. The coloring of the tunnel so many times that it almost narrowed the diameter of the tunnels themselves. Construction of the Vukelic Bridge that connects nothing to anything. The highway to Sanader's Dugabab. Hypo bank affair. Love story or 1001 nights in Croatian way from the study Fimi Media and State Customs. Trucks and planes, bmws and expensive watches, cash for some now already former leaders of coalition partners, but also for nice texts and contributions in selected media. Artistic paintings and plane tickets to overseas flights, expensive dinners and the waste of state money in the casinos of Las Vegas. Where are these difficult business factors in this report? 15 billion kunas have been stolen from their own people who live from today to tomorrow, who suffer from their property, who in the 21st century because of the misery and lack of choice they can make from their children, who can no longer study, who sleeps in cars and eats in the soup kitchens, and not a word about it. And imagine what we could have done for those people with all these billions of kunas that were stolen, and could not have been invested in new jobs, in new incentives, in new social care programmes, in the development of education, in the development of health care. Second group of reasons. When the government of the Republic of Croatia's relationship with Slavonia and Baranja is truly nothing can surprise us anymore. Sometimes they outdo themselves. I will give only two examples of an even relationship with all Croatian regions. The report concerns 69 companies of particular national interest. Of that, 8 companies in Slavonia and Baranja are 11%. Whether it should remind Slavonia and Baranja are regions with 20% of the population and 20% of the territory. 20% of the 69 is 14 in an equal, even relationship between the central government towards Slavonia and Baranja on the list of companies of special state interest would be at least 20% of such societies and still only 11. From this someone who does not know the real situation might think that in Slavonia and Baranja it is such a good situation when it comes to companies and the economy that there is no need for the state to be of particular interest more than 11%. The reality is, unfortunately, quite different. We all know that today Slavonia and Baranja is precisely thanks to the carelessness of ruling the poorest and most lagging end of the Republic of Croatia. We know that the situation is difficult throughout Croatia and we do not seek or expect only Slavonia and Baranja to be of particular national interest. On the contrary, we always speak and point out that only by an even relationship and investment in all regions and regions in Croatia can the state be improved. The burden of the crisis should all be put together, and we are ready to bear our part of the burden, but we do not agree to continue to be neglected and not be of particular national interest less than other parts of the Republic of Croatia, because we are part of Croatia, and we cannot nor expect any other state to be of particular state interest. And we have at least the same special state interest for our government. We deserve this right by inheritance, but also by all the sacrifices that the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja gave in the Homeland War for the independence and freedom of the Republic of Croatia, and these sacrifices are huge. Not worthy of any sacrifice, more or less than the other, equally esteeming every drop of the blood of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War from Dubrovnik to Vukovar, we cannot and cannot ignore, and in particular do not forget one irrefutable fact according to the Croatian Ministry of Defense of all the dead Croatian defenders in the Homeland War of Slavonia, which accounts for 20% of the population and territory, 40.3% of Croatian defenders from Slavonia and Baranja died. Is that negligible? Should it be pointed out, then, that this treatment is the kind of company in this case in Slavonia and Baranja, the continuation of the inequity of the government's relationship with our region. We also saw this in the adoption of the state budget, we also saw those 30 projects of special interest for the Republic of Croatia. We're nowhere. And no matter how much it may disturb us, we HDSSB representatives will not stop pointing to this injustice at any price, until it is corrected, because we are here in the Croatian Parliament because of our fellow citizens who expect it from us, and despite all the warnings, by taking away words, by throwing us out of the assembly, no one will shut us up. A second example of an unfair relationship concerns a particular type of commercial company, which is one that belongs to the airport group. In Croatia there are 7 airports of special national interest Zagreb, Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik and Osijek. In the structure of the property of the airport Osijek state is with 55% owner. It is expected that under such circumstances and the state will do everything to ensure minimum conditions for the normal operation of this airport, and that minimum would mean regular flights that will allow for air integration and Osijek with other parts of the Republic of Croatia. And do you know that Osijek is the only port, the airport, east of Zagreb? And the situation is next, that it is the only one that has not had a regular flight over the years or with Zagreb, but not with any other port in Croatia for years. Only during the two summer months of the 7th and 8th months when vacations are vacations do we have an approved line Osijek-Dubrovnik and you know that on what day? Wednesday at noon. And while almost everyone on the sea in those months travels on weekends, because they are mostly tourist shifts, Slavons and Baranians should probably reach the sea on Wednesdays, then wait under tents in front of hotels to free their rooms, spend seven days in hotels, again under tent, and to the airport on Wednesday, and then return home by plane. The reason for this relationship is almost incredible. The national airline Croatia Airlines, which is also a company owned by the Croatian state, does not want to establish these lines because it says it is invaluable. As far as we're concerned, it's worth nothing to state firms and state authorities or maybe a little bit of a lot of it. Here is corridor 5C now announced that it will be completed in a direction that does not currently lead anywhere towards Sava, instead of going towards Drava, across Baranja to the Hungarian border and connected with the highway in the Republic of Hungary. And in the 21st century, the most isolated region, both road and rail and air, was not deserved by Slavonia and Baranja and its citizens. It is that we are the poorest but that does not mean that we should be riding the carriages today, while others have few helicopters, and some of us from Croatia are already applying for space travel. Finally, this report is missing and incomplete and therefore unacceptable for the HDSSB club. It's missing and incomplete for the next reason. Only 69 companies of particular social interest are analysed. He lacks what is most important, there is no analysis of business in 70, probably today and most important and for the survival of the Croatian state of commercial society not only of particular state interest, but of the most special and most important state interest. If there is any society that deserves such treatment in the Republic of Croatia today, then it is today's HDZ. Once a proud state-owned party, today with full right deserves the name of HDZ d.o.o., and this society not with limited responsibility, but with unlimited irresponsibility. And as for us in Slavonia and Baranja, but also a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it might be good for our country to maybe send them, those responsible for this, not all of them, those of the ruling structure, and even for one already mentioned tourist flight into space, to cross them there a little bit, because it will be cheaper than what they do to all of us every day. And we'd be sure that at least for that tourist trip here, they'd do little or no damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65213	Thank you, fellow Buric. From this explanation, it seems that the glass is half empty, and we do not give you, fear not, no one will throw you out of this assembly, at least to explain to us how that some research recently done shows that the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja are the most satisfied, and the citizens of Istria are the most dissatisfied with the situation in their region. But well, it's absurds. But we also have a replica of your exposure, counselor. Excuse me. I'm sorry. We all apologize. Let's move on with the debate. A colleague of Goran Maric, in front of the Croatian Democratic Union Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65214	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Looks like no one's going through today without your comment, so neither am I. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So we can look at this report today from two aspects, from the aspect of the report structure, from the quality of the report, and from the business aspect of the companies in the report. There will also be conflicting opinions, but when it comes to the report itself, the structure of the report, and the fact that this report is for the first time in the Croatian Parliament, that this government has first produced this report, so it deserves every praise. And we can analyze and we want to analyze the work of companies because it's in everyone's best interest for them to do better business. We often hear about patriotism, and we often watch many drilling in the chest with patriotism. And patriotism is most pronounced and clear in relation to the state and state property. This is where patriotism is measured. What's the attitude towards the state? We need those who have a relationship with state property better, more responsible than their own property. That's what we need. And there are those in Croatia, but these results will also show who they are and who they are not. And let's talk objectively and come up with the best-quality solutions. In the case of the report itself, the report is made up in a very short time, the report contains a number of quality data. The truth that it can be even more quality, that it can be technically more sophisticated. They also accepted our suggestions on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. One small technical supplement is enough so that the new company is on the new page and it is not down the last sentence and the report structure is improved. Equalise the criteria, even and standardise them, and that will happen. We have, when we talk about the business of companies of particular national interest, we have positive examples and negative examples. We need to talk about each other. We should also talk about tendencies. Obviously, in the last year, a positive shift from the very making of the report to some events in certain societies has been positive. So we can attack any company, but HEP has better results than it did. HEP was in debt to most suppliers, today it is no longer due to anyone more than to HEP. There are such positive ones, and there are negative ones I'll talk about. The HDZ Club certainly supports this report, and where luck is it that these reports have come to the Croatian Parliament every year then this would be even more quality today than many years, but everyone has avoided so far delivering it. And that is why we most commend the government finally made that decision to take it before the Croatian Parliament and discuss it in the Croatian Parliament. How can results be improved in companies? So how can business plans be given more demanding? To make business plans more carefully, what will business plans do to a company in the 7th month of the current year? Business plans should already be developed and those who have made should be commended, those who do not need correction. Assemblys, congregation maintenance, too. Those who did not call on the congregation in time, we suggest that you call off these congregations of work representing the state in these companies because they are irresponsiblely doing their job. But also, we always have to point out the positive ones who are doing their job neatly, and there are both. If more demanding business results are put in place, and they are necessary because those who earn profit can certainly gain even a little better profit, and those who lose can lose less, and perhaps some do not have to lose at all. But there is a responsibility required by both the members of the Supervisory Board and the members of the board. And that administration that doesn't want to accept a business programme like that, let the business plan not even accept a function. I've never seen one in a state-owned company in Croatia stand down because he couldn't achieve a business plan or that he wouldn't accept the post because it's too heavy, demanding plan for them. Everyone easily accepts the functions because it is very pleasant to drive in expensive cars, it is very pleasant to use the costs of the team, it is very pleasant to organize banquets Christmas and Easter, but then responsibility should be increased. I'm going to point out some of them and each other. But where we often say that worse business results are not just responsibility on board, responsibility is also on the board of directors and that criminal responsibility should be distinguished from this responsibility of business. Because if someone chose a director who was doing bad, then the one who guaranteed that he would be good should step away from that place if the director had changed. For example, we had that they had achieved Croatia's insurance, JANAF, Croatia's lottery, ACI, made a profit. Surely these companies could have made a bigger profit. Both Croatia insurance and JANAF and Croatia lottery and ACI. Croatia's insurance only lost 100 million kuna on one job, leasing, and it shouldn't have. INA should not have achieved the loss of 630 million kuna. The HPB was also not supposed to achieve the loss of 454 million kuna, let alone Podravka 287. There was obviously inefficient management and irresponsible attitude towards the state. Well, it's no wonder if INA sold hundreds of apartments at one non-market price, she bought from a private gas station, too, at no market price. All this reflects ultimately on business results. Sailplane d.d. For example, staff costs rose 15%, the highest salary paid is 53,000 kuna, increased 10% compared to 2008. The lowest was 4 379 kuna, almost as average in the Republic of Croatia. Loss of €26 million, duty rate only 0.17, and current liquidity ratios as high as 3.19. These are such good financial indicators and coefficients that you simply have to deal with better. The rate of duty of 0,17 is one of the smallest duties of all companies. The current liquidity ratio of 3,19 is one of the largest levels of liquidity. Well, they could only make advance payments and discounts on advances on advances. A positive example of KONČAR ELECTROGRUPA, a gain of 15 million kuna, achieved a total of 145 million kuna. This is an example of how the conditions of the recession, as well as the conditions of the economic crisis can be done positively, but they have made a lot of efforts. And congratulations to those who lead and Conchar and those who are on the board of directors. But I also believe that those who approved 53,000 kunas in Jadroplov pay and waited for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reduce and pay to those who meet today's time that they should be recalled and I hope after this public tender that they will not be taken into account to be back on the Supervisory Board. I already mentioned the sub-level as a negative and unnecessary example, and the shipyard "3. May" loss of 454 million kuna increased by 100 million kuna compared to 2008. Current liquidity ratio 0.19, financial stability coefficient negative -0.22, debt rate increased to 2.85, long-term liabilities almost doubled, short-term liabilities increased by 200 million kuna, total income dropped almost half. And imagine the highest salary of 71 thousand kunas at the lowest of 12,000 kunas. I hope that's a mistake. This 71 is not, unfortunately, but the shipyard "May 3", this lowest one is probably a mistake in the report, but the highest one is 71 thousand kuna, who is the one who is so irresponsible in Croatia that the loss of half a billion kuna gives the directors 71 thousand kuna, we need to know such names. Brodotrogir, achieved loss of 174 million kuna and the highest salary of 20 thousand and 797 kuna, so it is no wonder that it is a loss, because they are in debt with a state guarantee of 14%, but I don't know who is such, who is in exactly who gives such proposals to the Supervisory Board and who thus approves and commends the Government to change these supervisory committees, to choose the best, the most responsible ones who know how to deal with these problems and who won't continue with the same trend. Oil oil is a positive example, 23, 24 million kuna gains and income is even increased in 2009 by 200 million kuna, so behaves in the crisis. Bizobe spas are a kind of pearl, their loss is greater than their total income. But I haven't heard that it's hard for some director and he can't run that job anymore and resign. Croatia airlines, for years it was the same management, I have read on the plane in their newsletter for years, says Croatia airports have achieved favourable financial results, I have never found in the literature professionally which are favourable financial results, probably insufficiently large losses, and year after year the losses have been growing, more irrational behavior, and managers are becoming more and more valuable. Contributed claims from customers on 31st day. The 12th was 27 million kuna, 43% more than a year earlier. They doubled their obligations. On which basis Croatia airports have outstanding claims, so it should not have a single June of outstanding claims, and who does not pay Croatian airlines and have increased, traffic revenues dropped 17% and employed 82 workers more than in 2008, there is no logic and the highest net salary of 43,000 kuna. I'm lucky it's not like that anymore. The Adriatic Club generates 10% reduction and expenditures are reduced 8%, short-term liabilities have increased 5 million kuna and all to total income of only 39 million kuna. Croatian forests are a huge potential but it is unacceptable to have unpaid claims of 600 million kuna. If they have such claims, contracts should be terminated, deliveries suspended, and court orders to collect their claims. I highlighted HEP as a positive example because it increased profits from 31 to 154 million kuna. And the highest salary imagine 14 thousand kunas, this is an example of responsible behavior, with a salary of 14 thousand kunas earning a profit more three times as much as in 2008, and some who have a salary five times higher than that salary earn double the loss in 2008. So, we have people, it's just a matter of selection, of choice, because today the most depends is on the state-owned company who manages it and who needs to manage it. The one who knows, the one who is educated, the one who has knowledge from different areas, not only from the economy, must know the legal environment, must be politically, socially, must know business processes, business activities, but must also have a fair approach and must be imbued with human virtues. If it's not in vain, every one of his knowledge. But I say Croatia has such and should insist on selecting honest ones and those who will show by their relationship to the country exactly how it is managed in state-owned enterprises. But it should also be pointed out that many results are worse because of the poor designing of the organisational structure of the company itself. It is difficult to expect the efficient management of companies in one, for example, if one company, one company makes locomotives, and the other company makes cars, then we cannot expect the most rational and most efficient results. In addition to all these remarks, the HDZ Club welcomes and commends the report itself, but here points to certain failures and praises to those who did well in 2009, state-owned companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65215	Thank you, dear colleague Maric. It's the IDS Club. There's a colleague, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65216	Madam Vice-President, Secretary of State, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. How to go, these benefits Mr. Maric mentioned, MPs do not enjoy. Neither the card, nor the phones, nor the cars, nor the drivers, nor the banquets, nor the apartments that can buy for 50% of the value, nor the severance, nor the bonuses as in Croatia, the insurance of a million kuna, the three of them are divided, and 500 thousand even give for Gotovina, etc. What representatives enjoy is just permanent insults. We're one red rag for permanent calling. It's right in "May 3rd" the biggest gross salary was 70 thousand kuna, unfortunately net, incredible, but unfortunately 12 thousand kunas are not the lowest wage, when I know there are three, four thousand. Here's God if a 3rd May worker or an Oilman or any other shipyard had 12,000 kunas to pay. However, I should return to this report on the business of companies of special state interest for 2009. You see, gentlemen, of everything Croatia has ever had since the 1990s, it's over 2,000 companies that have entered the privatisation, we have what's left on the list of one piece of paper of this report. The rest of us, or rather, are told 69 companies that are currently hiring 110 thousand 504 workers. At one time, over 2.2 million people worked in the Republic of Croatia. Today in this country it is working to say so on today about a million 420 thousand jobs. So the Republic of Croatia through the public sector where 387 thousand people were employed whether they were municipalities, cities, counties, state, municipal systems, etc. It also controls these 110 thousand 504 jobs, so directly through this or that form affects about 500 thousand employees, half a million employees. In the last year and a half, we have lost respected gentlemen representatives of 102 thousand jobs. And so these phrases that are heard that Croatia and the government will be refreshed with a few newly elected ministers are actually stories for naives. Refreshment is the election, everything else is a touch on the spot. This report is also interesting, but Mr. Zdravko Maric is not Minister Šuker, does this mean anything about possible government refreshation I don't know, but I would like to know when the announced government reconstruction will come for daily work. Now let's move on. The company that we're talking about here is in this report. Here there are large national systems from HEP to Postanska banka, from Croatia insurance, from bankrupt tourist houses owned by the states of Meden, Živogosce to prior to mentioned major shipyards, HRT, "Croatian Waters", "Croatian Postes", etc. The first thing I want to say is that monopolies don't sell to Croatian tycoons or foreigners. The Croatian tycoons, which by 2000 could be controlled through banks, governments, "politicals" today, are able to capitalize, de facto control all pores of this society, and that is one big disaster in my court. Today the normal Croatian capitalists of these converted easily that it has become someone's work, it has never been disputed at least not with me, what do they want today? Ho will monopoly, the most valuable thing left behind at this moment behind this government or in this country. Everything else is theirs. They want energy, they want space, they want land, they want insurance companies, they want port, they want coasts, they want shores. In 5, 10 or 15 years, they will clearly sell their heirs this to others, and God damn sure they will not be sold as some of them do today, meaning they will not be sold to foreigners. Understandably, if the government wants to sell something, then it has to do it in a perfectly transparent way, by the way, primarily international tendering because preferting anyone to isolate the Republic, punishing me, I would say this people and engage in one serious crime. We finally saw what a friendly takeover looks like, for example. One Podravka. That means it has to be the first rule to go to an international tender, and then after that, whoever loves to vote, but absolutely should be in my court against the sale of the monopoly. Secondly, says recently President Josephov, whom I highly respect "Or pay, or return". But I think it's wrong. It says nothing will happen in this country based on conversion. Could any of our tycoons have been able to get to some factory in a fair way, some hotel, some monopoly, some industry, some bank? Of course not. The truth is they all came to an end under the law, it's true, based on morality, based on political will that, based on some of their own qualities certainly not. And every single one of us should simply return everything, not pay, and the money they made should be returned. Of course that won't happen, it might happen through some revolution in this country. Understandably, if I didn't call for a revolution, it would be the worst thing that would happen to us, but by joining the EU, I want to stress that when it comes to our conversion, privatisation will simply be cemented. No more revisions, and the legend of Royce is right there, "Who's bailing, he's bailing," and whoever's hoping for some revision is actually not going to be any more of that. Maybe even fail will come upon impact, I don't say, but even criminal persecution, but those other successful ones won't touch. Even if someone were to engage in this, let us let go of what they would have learned about these systems, at last a large majority of these societies simply overnight to go bankrupt, and the state is probably also making sure that this does not happen because it could also pull our institutions behind it. So nothing from the review, there's gonna be a little dusting in the eyes, there's gonna be a little acting on some preparedness, but that's all. There's no problem in starting a criminal case against the former prime minister, but to see against some tycoon in the '90s, these certainly won't be so easy to touch. Note ben to say that Mercep was arrested a little while ago. What worries me to a large extent is this premonition that "Croatia Insurance" and "Postal Bank" will be privatized. I just can't figure out why we should privatize national pearls. On the other hand, he says these systems should be run by Mr. Shucker in the future, but as the bombing started last week, I don't think that's gonna happen. The state others say, and even here it was heard about this pay phone is not a good employer. Why wouldn't you be a good employer if we met those criteria Mr. Maric spoke of? I know that the system in this country from 2003 to 2010 was simply positioned or set in a way to enter these large systems and simply then steals. A man can make a mistake, but he can't take it. In this country, it was never the point of being an example. Minister of Health already Director of Croatia Insurance. It wasn't about being a finance minister in this country. It was about the head of customs. It wasn't about being a culture minister in this country, it was about being a highway director. It wasn't about being a minister of agriculture. It was about water industry. It was not the point in this country to be the head of social services, but rather the director of HEP or Croatian broadcasting. Instead of what the state is selling out, let it build, let it even take over, I don't know how, through some business that makes sense, and what it's privatized before that. I will not talk about politics to Istria as Mr. Buric spoke about his Slavonia, but just to say that last year if I am not mistaken or this year for Istrian companies is set aside on the basis of some aid of 6 to 7 million kuna for Tessa of the promised 15, and it is a serious export company and I do not see why this society should be punished. On the other hand, if the state needs to sell out this package of its shares in bankrupt tourism, Živogosce, Medena etc. Let it be for a single kuna, for someone to cover their debts, to hire a labor force, to restore it. On the other hand, they're one Brijuni Riviera, nothing, a barrel, but it could be something to let people do. Before that, let's at least get rid of that Marler guy and let Ladic and his investors invest. But today in this country, it should be said what the climate is like, no one can work, no one dares to put a signature on any paper for the smallest possible investment, and the day after tomorrow someone from the state's attorney's office, USCOK or the police will knock on his door. We have, among other things, blocked any country's development by such a practice, our country has been paralyzed. The fear that the government has simply stalled Croatia, not just the people in the executive government. I've never felt so uncomfortable with all the MPs who think that just every conversation they have is being watched, the phones are listening, and I'm not talking about anything else. It's just not a good situation, and that's why I say once again, a man can make a mistake, but he can't steal. It must be, it must not please itself or its own, for let us be honest, as the people in the executive power sin both the judges and investigators and the state's attorneys etc. I'll only say two sentences around the tourist land. We give it to these laws and this practice literally to the tycoons. For one table in Dekuman, on Stradun or anywhere else, each craftsman must pay the full price of the rent. They're using hundreds of acres, gentlemen, and they don't pay anyone a single kuna. Some of my predecessors spoke of shipbuilding before me. I'll mention that the state in those societies sucked in 20 billion kuna in 10 years. We still have 12 billion kuna guarantees that threaten maturity. And you can also ask yourself if anyone should answer for this in the country. I claim not to, even though some today’s criteria might be called for. Second of all, he mentioned the State Secretary's profit earlier. A billion and 24 million, a loss of $4.4 billion, almost 4.5. Cost 76.8 billion kuna, income 74.089 billion kuna. Expensive, income far less. And finally, just to say, it's hard to be on this report even though it's the most serious thing in the last 15 years because if we were to vote for the failure of this system, we would also vote for the robbery of these systems, we would vote for the damage that is happening to the country because of the way these systems are run. To vote for would be to vote for conversion, and perhaps the next day and privatise some Croatian national systems and vote for it would be to vote for legalising some of the affairs that have been discussed lately, and I will not personally stand behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65217	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65218	I can't replicate, so I have to fix it. You told these companies tourist and catering hotels Meden, which deal with losses so it would be best to sell for one kuna. ... That wouldn't be good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The best thing would be, they have problems, difficulties and objective and subjective. These companies need assistance, to take advantage of one of the possible economic recovery models, first of all, model C and in two, three years in the process of reorganisation and administration and restructuring of enterprises, the resolution of property-legal relations by raising business activities can not only be returned to what has been recovered but also by selling for three years. ... Then you can reorganize 400 million kunas. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How much land on the beach is worth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65219	Thank you. Thank you very much. No controversy. The word was requested by Secretary of State Maric because of further clarification regarding the salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65220	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's an apology, first of all, for our mistake in the report, and now we've got the right information from "May 3" so we don't talk about it any further. Therefore, by 7 months 2009, the highest salary in that company, i.e. in that company, was 23000 net, following that government decision to limit the salaries of the management members, was 16700. The lowest is also misspelled in the report, not 12 of course, but 2323 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65221	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. This is not an irrelevant piece of information because as much as anyone goes into their pocket, it's important. Next in line to the HNS-HSU club, counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65222	Dear Madam Vice-President, honourable representatives of the motionor or government. The HNS and HSU Club welcomes the fact that before the Croatian Parliament a report on the business of companies of special state interest, a report relating to business in 2009. However, I would like to remind you that in 2008 the Croatian People's Party in this House proposed a conclusion that the Government once a year report on the business of companies, that it was only 2009 that our proposal came to the agenda and that literally all of the government and all the committees had actually rejected it under one ridiculous, under one ridiculous excuse that the business of public enterprises, or companies of state interest, is already publicly controlled by the Ministry of Finance itself, which publishes information on the websites and what there is a system that provides for permanent supervision of the State Audit. And that was then said State Secretary Mr. Ivica Mladneo actually laughing at us all in the mustache. It is good that the government has given up on this arrogance and haughtiness and has now proposed this report itself because it means that it is willing to accept concrete and smart proposals just because it is happening to us that we always need two or three steps more until we get to something smart just so that we can practice it because someone else is proposing, and we didn't think of it as ourselves. But the good fact is that at the time we asked for this report we had a list of about 210 state-interested enterprises and that later on, by one act or by amending the law, we reduced that number, so that the list was changed, so now it is 69 companies. That's, of course, three times what we've been looking for in time, and that's good. So, in principle, we welcome the government's willingness to still face this Report to the Croatian Assembly, but we also remind that Agent Mršić was having trouble getting basic information about who is sitting on the supervisory boards of these companies. The government was unable to register members of the Supervisory Board within 30 days. However, the report, which is in front of us in quality summary, shows that 69 companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, i.e. of interest, state interest and from these summary reports, can when the Government wants to include relevant data, summarise them, analyse them and give the public an insight. For the first time, we've actually officially seen that there are 110,000 people working in these 69 companies. Also, for the first time, we find out that the portfolio makes 74 billion kuna a year. We also saw that the portfolio was a loss business, i.e. the expenditure was almost 77 billion. It is also good to see that there is a comparative insight into what companies have done with the loss and which with the gain. What is missing from this report and what we hope will certainly be promoted in the coming years because this is still the first ever Report that the Croatian Parliament sees. It's that actually work and comparatively lay the indicators of attachment 4. These are the financial indicators, the coefficients. So what we are missing is a comparison of this public sector, so businesses of particular state interest and the real sector, that is, the private part of the sector. In fact, companies we call state-owned are constantly the target of criticism that it is actually incompetent, tromic, poorly complex, organised and financially viewed as extremely irrational systems. The public interest is to know who sits in administrations, who sits on supervisory committees, how it manages public resources, whether it achieves rentability and profitability, how it is therefore available to national goods. Because some of these companies directly control and exploit what is left of Croatia, which is forests, water, road infrastructure, it is the distribution of electricity, the production of energy and so on. In fact, if we look at only one segment to compare the private and public sectors when it comes to companies, then we can see from this report that participation in expenditure, so on. the costs of staff, i.e. the costs of employees in public enterprises at 17%. According to publicly available data for 2009, these same costs in the private sector take place at around 12%. So, if we as masters, if the state as a good master made an effort to properly implement the measures to level this relationship in public and private enterprises, if the cost of employees and in public enterprises were about 12%, then the state would save about 5 billion kuna on that alone annually. Let us not forget that 5 billion kuna is one third of the total projected minus or deficit of the 2011 State budget. That's a huge value. Furthermore, only the Report should be separated as a method from what the Report brings as content. We at the HNS and HSU club welcome, therefore, that the report was presented to the Croatian Parliament and the public, and it is a quality step, but of course we have large reserves and criticisms of content, i.e. data that indicate that companies were doing business in 2009, which are of particular national interest. We see that in 2009, the decline in total revenues of the complete portfolio is about 16%. If we compare that the gross social product has dropped 5.9% in that period, of course it is not comparatively 100%, but it is indicative of what circumstances it was dealing with, then it is seen that this difference is much larger than it is in the private sector. Let's see how the expenses went down. As incomes dropped 16%, expenditure dropped 11 and a half percent. So it wasn't properly managed. On the other hand, these 69 companies lost a thousand and 300 in 2009, about a thousand and 300 jobs. This is about 1% of the total jobs in this 69 company portfolio, and if we look at what happened in the private sector then we will see that about a hundred thousand jobs have been lost there, representing almost 10% of the total number of jobs. So working in companies in the state sector is a very safe thing, and fearing for job loss is completely out of line with the situation in private businesses. Still with us government that winged woman employs my son, daughter, friend or cousin in a public company, because it is understood that these systems are so threefold and fully secured by the state's concern that the possibility of losing your job is far, far less than working with any privateer. On the other hand, what comes to us now is the post-February 2010, as data on how the funds held by the Croatian highways, Croatian Railways, Croatian Forests, a whole number of other public companies whose directors and members of the administration sat at that famous meeting in the government, where they are suggested to deal with FIMA Media, but also some other affairs that are not in FIMA Media, related to FIMI Media, but with everything that is going on in the public today, which is now valid in the State's Attorney's Office, and also in the courts, from Spice, and beyond, shows that the funds available to state firms were the reserve source for both party and private costs. We cannot get the impression that this report actually failed to answer the question of how it was possible for some large public companies to have 6 hundred million kunas of outstanding claims, behind which one of the possible answers is only a bargaining or corruption. On the other hand, it is possible to pay private accounts through the public business system, to pay large donations for the needs of the party or the needs of some stakeholders behind whom a specific politician or a concrete political group stands. Your colleague Maric is right when he says everything is on man, because we can and must treat this as he said better than he did to his own, with a greater malice, with the care of a good master, because when someone trusts you with something else, if you have a grain you have to look at it three times more than when you have your own. That wasn't the case here. So on the side of the report as such. We welcome him and we will support him, or we will vote for him, and we thank the government for what it did and after what she said in 2009, now she has come alone with this report, but the fact is that as such, she opens up the story that we have actually treated public capital and in these companies rarely as a distraction, as if we could actually, without any fear of punishment, not us here, but those who are on our behalf, in the name of the state, and we present ourselves, as well as the government in their own way, who ruled those public resources, who actually treated them as if it were their father, or as if they could do what they wanted. A list of those who, for this reason today, are waiting for a trial that has already been held in a prison of investigation, which has been formed by the famous Remetinec Club, which will only come to the reserve bench there or perhaps even on the first team, and those who will reach the court and hopefully be properly punished for this type of crime, prove in fact that we have calculated that the government has been counting on the wrong people on our behalf. Now is the time to show ourselves and everyone that we have the strength to resist it and that in the future we will be far more responsible to the public than we have ever been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65223	Thank you. We have another club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic, on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65224	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the business of companies of particular interest of state interest in 2009 is material containing a business analysis of 69 companies, in accordance with the decision of the Croatian Parliament on the list of companies of special state interest, which the Ministry of Finance made for the first time. Since this report is for the first time, we at the HSS Club are also in favour and the views expressed earlier in the debates that it is welcome and that it is good to look at all the indicators that the report brings to us in order to remove and eliminate any difficulties and problems. The report is an analytical material that provides, in one place, basic data and business characteristics for companies declared of particular national interest in which the state has 22% to 100% share in the ownership structure with a total of 110 000 employees and 504 employees. The specificity of those societies is reflected above all in the fact that economic operators are one of the main levers of the implementation of economic policy and economic development strategy and which, depending on their specificity, provide services which concern the area of particular importance for the implementation of economic policy, i.e. services of general economic interest in which they are generated... the extent of positive, or negative extremities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The data based on the report are based on official data, which cover the company's basic financial reports for 2009, and business reports for 2009 and indicators from 2008, profit-sharing decisions, cover the losses incurred by the company, and on the basis of data obtained from financial agencies. The analyses covering the business of certain companies for 2009 and through quantitative and descriptive indicators are compared with the previous year's business results indicating business trends and basic characteristics of financial performance, i.e. efficient management of business processes and the efficient use of resources in the business of a particular company. The data of the business analysis in the report in question refer to companies, i.e. individual groups of companies. The company's business analysis shall be carried out for the purpose of taking into account the results achieved and the financial results, and the report in question shall provide data on the results achieved by analysing companies, i.e. the country's share of the company's ownership structure, dividend policy data on the basis of the decision on the distribution of profits achieved, as well as the number of permanent employees. During 2009, the entire Croatian economy faced strong contractions, which had a significant impact on the business of all economic operators in the Republic of Croatia. In order to reduce the negativity and create conditions, decisions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have also been taken to streamline business and all other measures aimed at easing negative impacts on the internal processes of the companies covered by this report. The efforts and activities made in 2009 achieved total savings in the rationalisation of business in 21 companies. The implementation of business rationalisation created conditions... of business policies and the creation of optimal liquidity in payments, resulting in positive developments in both 2009 and especially in early 2010 when the problems of liquidity so-called "individual" were almost eliminated. public undertakings which have until then been considered an inequitable generator. The analysis of the business of 21 majority-owned companies in the Republic of Croatia in 2009 showed an increase in profits achieved compared to the previous 2008. The measures of rationalisation and optimisation of business are continuously implemented and no business problems are expected in this respect in the coming periods. It also meets the conditions for stronger investment activity, which is one of the more important roles of economic policy with the aim of creating conditions for faster recovery and achievement of other preconditions that will enable long-term sustainable development and competitiveness of the Croatian economy. The reduction in economic activity caused by the economic crisis of global scales resulted in a decline in transport and a reduction in investment activities, leading to a decrease in the volume of contracted transactions in 2009 and a fall in operating income. A number of companies are under way in the process of implementing business restructuring and preparing privatisation in line with strategic decisions and the newly adopted concept of the privatisation model. Also, some of the companies, and especially the shipbuilding industry, have for many years been generating losses that have been reported in this report and have a certain impact on aggregated indicators and evaluations of the performance of business processes and the implementation of efficient business policies. The reduction of basic activities and the difficulty in operating in the conditions of significant demand and investment activities also have a significant impact on the trends in income and expenditure of the observed companies covered by this report. The situation of very strong economic turbulence has led to a faster reduction in total revenues compared to a reduction in total expenditure. In doing so, the total revenues of the analysed companies were reduced by 16% compared to the previous year. It is good that we also have this report and these indicators that say that in 69 companies analysed, that is, the number of employees was reduced by 1% compared to the previous year, and at the end of 2009, a total of 110 000 and 504 employees were constantly employed. Of these companies, the largest number of permanent employees is recorded by HEP, i.e. by the group in the field of electricity, which is more than 14 thousand, followed by Croatian railways with 5 companies over 13 thousand, Croatian mail over 11 thousand employees. We see that these 3 companies employ over 38 thousand employees in 2009. We will not repeat some previously highlighted problems in the debates, but we would also like to highlight some of the details that can be read from this report, and I think that in the time ahead, they are also saying that there is a need to maintain regular annual company assemblies within the legal deadline, since certain societies did not adhere to that deadline, which we think would greatly contribute to the more successful functioning of these societies and also those issues relating to supervisory committees. The problem of paying extremely high salaries to the management of certain companies operating with a loss and an example of the shipbuilding industry, where the highest net salary was paid in 2009, and the production was reduced by 11% compared to the previous year, not to repeat these amounts now, while we have an example of Croatian forests that operate positively and where wages are paid in that framework of government decisions that do not amount to more than 14 thousand kuna. And in the end, the government, as I said, has made a decision to cut salaries to people in charge of these companies, so that we believe in the future there will no longer be any possibility of paying such high wages and making a great loss. The Intangible Report should perhaps be drawn up in a way that all data for each company is in a way standardised to allow quality comparison of companies with the company. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club think special attention should be paid to the implementation of anti-corruption programmes in public enterprises in order to address the quality of the current problems as soon as possible and to create conditions for making the privatisation of most of these companies as soon as possible. We at the HSS Club believe that this report on the business of companies of special interest is welcome and that it is good that in front of the Croatian Assembly to discuss it and therefore the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65225	Thank you very much. It's been 10.57 a long time for a 10-minute application, and now I'm publishing later. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 13 registered for individual hearings. We thought the vote would be at half one, and at 12 and 30, but hard, but we should still finish this agenda, we really have over 37, 38 points of the agenda, and we're still going to add 6. 7. In fact, in our 20th session, we have not come down below 40 agenda points, no matter how much we make up for it and even expand the agenda. So I would suggest that we finish this item on the agenda, and then extend and vote even though at six o'clock today we have a 20-year-old Constitution and a Declaration of Human Rights where it would be good for MPs and MPs to be. Well, 13 is reported, we'll be glad to hear every statement in terms of withdrawal, but of course you have the right to do that. Here's the first one in the individual debate of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65226	Thank you, Mr. President. Then we'll try to shorten the debate a little bit so it won't be 10 minutes. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. What we can actually statisticalally read from this Business Report of Special State Interest, that our revenues were falling faster than our expenditures, so 16%, costs 11%. Which immediately points to business problems and profit reduction. AT THE same time as the real sector in the private sector has reduced a significant number of employees, that employment has dropped only 1.2% here, that there are still 110,000 employees in these companies. That it's only a billion, that the losses are 4.5 billion, and that's when we absorb 3.5 billion losses. The largest in HEP, therefore, has been obtained by a monopolies company which is also subject to significant investigations, so the question of what we have been monitoring in such companies is raised. That the total value of own capital and reserves has been reduced by 2%, that state guarantees in these companies have reached a level of 56 billion kuna and they are a constant threat to the state budget and are jeopardising the planned deficit of the state budget. That out of 57 of these companies there are 86 billion liabilities, out of which nearly 60 billion kuna is spent on loans and securities. So, data that must be worrying, and when we get this kind of business analysis, we should draw some conclusions, measures, and steps that need to be done further. Some of it is the State Secretary in the opening statement and said, however, that in the very material that we have received there is none. I believe that when the government analyzed this document that it was going with some kind of measure, and it would be normal for the conclusions, or the measures it intends to take to resuscitate the business of these companies to propose to us, it would be then perhaps a more quality material but also a better debate could be conducted. WE have the truth in every single entity that's been analyzed here. However, we do not know whose business assessment it is, whether it is a business assessment from the final account itself, whether it is an assessment of the management's business, whether it is an assessment of the Board of Supervisors' conduct, or whether it is an assessment of the government's or a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, proposed by the Government. I think the government had to come with special conclusions on how to resuscitate the situation in 69 of these companies. And now I'm saying I'm going to cut to the minimum, I'd like to say what should be done. We have, and now, in addition to the agenda, the proposal for a decision on the list of legal persons on special state interest. I think we need to significantly review the criteria on which we will determine which companies are of particular national interest. Because when we analyze these 69 here, then we see that it is also very different activities than energy, transport, tourism, shipbuilding, agriculture, some other industrial sectors, etc. So, what really should be of particular interest? Most likely energy, safe traffic and perhaps the banking system of these state banks and HBORs. I don't know if it's necessary for the state to control or say that it's of particular national interest at this point, and we don't know what its destiny will be, not definitely agriculture, certainly not some particular industrial branch. We have no proposal here to do what will be done after restructuring, that is, how restructuring will be done and what will be done after restructuring. We constantly have announcements to unify government portfolios, we don't have any program or strategy to privatise the state portfolio, especially there, which is minority that is below 25%, and maybe over 25%, maybe over 50%, but there's really no interest in the state having its shares there and in managing them. In particular, I think that such a strategy is needed for restructuring and for the privatisation programme of such societies, especially those that have a significant impact on the expenditures of the state budget, which through the subsidies that are allocated there is, in the first place, railways, which is through state guarantees. And I think I'm really saying at this point I don't know what the proposal for this decision looks like. We will see this when we get material from the government, but I think it should be important to narrow down the number of companies we treat as a society of special national interest, and then it should really be more efficient to manage them and monitor them more effectively, and it should be a driver of development in an industrial or transport or banking sense rather than a burden on the state budget. And that's why this material is missing for me. It provides opportunities for certain analyses, but we do not see from it what the Government intends to take and how it intends to resuscitate the situation in these companies. That's what I said. I'm gonna cut the hearing down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65227	Thank you, Madam Representative. That's one good example for the others. Thank you. Here we have Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So the Parliament's decision, taken at the end of last year, has led to a number of companies of special state interest, and is obliged by the Government to submit each year to the Parliament a report on the business of these companies by the end of September in the current year for the previous year. For a part of these companies, more precisely for a group of public companies, 21 business reports have been developed so far with them being delivered and accepted only by the government. And now for the first time report on the business of companies of special state interest, the government submits to the Parliament, and that's good. Given the fact that this is the first such clock this material has really a lot of mistakes and technical failures but only the technical performance shouldn't be judged too harshly, actually I'm going to give one suggestion. It would be very useful if this huge amount of text were formed into as many table displays as possible, which are far more transparent and acceptable way of presenting data to such a large number of economic operators as the word here in this case. Therefore, the tables allow for a far easier comparison of data between companies and would be easier to identify problems common to a certain number of companies. It is assumed that the data from companies are collected in addition to those standards from business reports and through additional but uniform forms in which the same data fund would be provided for all companies, of course with respect to certain specificities of the presentation of financial data for the commercial banks and for the FINA because it differs from that of the companies. Therefore, in the technical implementation, the report can be improved and improved in the coming years. However, what will be improved much harder and much slower is the content of this report. Therefore, the data on the results of the business and the problems of this extremely important segment of the Croatian economy. How important these companies for Croatia confirm that they employ more than 110 thousand employees, so almost 15% of the total employees in the Croatian economy. Also, these societies have their own capital and 158 billion kuna reserves, equivalent to almost half of their domestic gross product. In doing so, it should be noted that more than 2/3 of the sums mentioned refer to only three companies, so Croatian roads, Croatian highways and Croatian electricity industry. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that with these available resources, which are extremely valuable, which represent in the right sense the word national wealth, national silver, societies made 74 billion total revenues and 77 billion total expenditures in 2009. So the total expenditure exceeded revenue by 3 billion kuna. Out of 69 companies, a positive financial result, so the profit showed 28 companies, even 9 less than it was in 2008. The absolute amount of profits increased only 8% and amounted to slightly more than a billion kuna. It is therefore obvious that one tendency to concentrate profits in a small number of companies and this confirms that almost 45% of the profits achieved are related to only three companies in Croatia electricity, Plinacro and Končar electricity industry. And it would be a win for HEP and a bigger one, and it has to be said that the former prime minister did not sell, better said he gave electricity to the elected. The double fugitive Sanader was a bad trader when it came to public interests, so citizens' interests, but an excellent trader when it came to his personal interest and the interest of his former party. At the same time, the number of losers increased from 31 in 2008 to 39 in 2009, and the total loss amount increased at a rate of as much as 35% and reached a total of 4.5 billion kuna, with the largest individual amounts of losses being burdened by INA, the shipbuilding industry "3 May" and the Croatian Post Bank. It is obvious, therefore, that among companies designated as companies of particular national interest, the number of those who operate positively is reduced and the number of losers is increasing. The total losses of companies that did business negatively exceeded the profits of those who did positive business by as much as 3.5 billion kunas, or 3.5 times. It is clear, therefore, that it is the most inefficient, the most non-neral segment of the Croatian economy which, as I have already said with extremely valuable resources, produces unfortunately huge losses and these losses are terribly burdening the Croatian economy through the prices of the input, as well as Croatian citizens through electricity prices, gas, gasoline, through the price of certain services up to the high interest paid to business banks. And two very important components in the structure of these high prices and electricity and gas and all other public companies products are the first cost of systematic employment of HDZ likers and others, the cost of systematic financing of HDZ, hence its cold drive and particularly election campaigns. We're talking about state-owned enterprises, and as in our case, the state=HDZ, HDZ literally acted as if public companies were owned by it. HDZ literally privatised public enterprises, made them its cows to museums, and accounts were made to Croatian citizens. The supervisory boards still have representatives of the owners, so the state is proposing and voting for certain business decisions without even reading them, and also why, because they do not have any responsibility, the people will pay for it. And in the end, just a few words about wages in these companies. According to the government decisions of the majority state-owned company, they were obliged to reduce the wage mass and balance salaries and other incomes of the president and members of the administration. This report says that the decision in question has been respected, however, it is very clear from the same report that the salaries have been increased in mass, as well as in individual cases by the president and members of the administration. Clearly, then, administrations do not care too much about what their boss or government is telling them. It's particularly incomprehensible with losers, and I'm going to try to illustrate it with a few really drastic examples. For example, the Croatian Post Bank lost nearly half a billion kuna in 2009 with a profit of around 4.5 million kuna in 2008. It reduced its share capital contribution to almost 70%, also reduced its market share. So it weakened its position on the banking market, but at the same time increased the wage mass, while the highest individual salary did not decrease, remained at 44 thousand kuna. So the administration felt no responsibility for this huge loss, and why, when the loss over interest can always be passed on to the citizens. Or an example of Croatia Airlines that doubled the loss compared to 2008 so that in 2009, the highest salary remained the same 43,000. Or, for example, Rijeka-Zagreb highways, the loss has been increased to over 250 million kuna, the assembly decides to transfer the entire loss to the next business year, and the administration is rewarded with a 4% salary increase of 30 thousand kuna. And I'm going to stop there, and it's time to end, because it's really hard to say and point out all the irregularities that apply and that happen in societies of particular national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65229	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Goran Maric's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65230	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Speaking on behalf of the club, I have indicated some good and bad phenomena in this report. It's great to have the report in front of us. For the first time we have a chance to discuss it, for the first time we have shown all the results of the business of companies of state interest, and I said how important it is who manages these companies. The fate of society depends solely on them, those who govern these societies. It just shows how much attention it takes when these people are chosen to manage these societies. I said more needs, more responsibility to the state property than to its own. One who loves his country will look in the same direction his country looks at, to match interests, not to have individuals perform the tasks of superiors or wishes of some interested groups. And every time someone's ashamed of something he's done, it's my duty. This should stop with such a rule in the management of companies. There are so many positive examples, there are so many changes, but changes are only where human change has been. It's the man who does good or does bad. And the difference between man and man is much greater than between machine and machine, regardless of which type of machine they are roughly similar to technological characteristics. But today it's a man who makes an advantage or is a weight in a particular state-owned company. And from that point of view alone, I will now speak in an individual debate, because it has been in that part of all these 20 years since Croatia was the most deficient, although there are constantly bright examples, constantly those who have proven themselves and denied the the thesis that the state cannot manage effectively with its businesses, that private businesses are doing better business. There are those who know and do better business while running the company, the truth was it was a rare thing, but the turn of one was done in that segment. The truth is that because of the conveyed way of thinking and managing these companies, it is because of that so - called. the communist approach where they inherited or old to manage state-owned or newly-componed new managers who were created overnight, media stars became, and in fact, they would be without any cover. They taught them at universities that they can accept any job required of them, and in fact there is no institution or university in Croatia economic direction that most students have learned that they can solve a serious economic problem in any company. Because running a company isn't just about finishing college. It's so complex, it takes so much knowledge, it takes so much affection, it needs skill, and in most cases, it's just skills. Well, it's not skill management. He says he's a skilled manager, he's prone to manage. Is he supposed to be decent? Is he supposed to be able to communicate? Whether to be educated, whether to be professional, whether to know business processes, whether to appreciate man, whether to think today and tomorrow and in 10 years, whether to know and to make strategic decisions and tactical decisions. It should, but it all takes experience, and experience cannot be gained in colleges. College doesn't know what the employee looks like. College doesn't know how payment traffic works. He has not heard of the Law on Mandatory Relations, he has not heard of the basic rights because he teaches them just how modern to become, how to impose as an individual, how to protect himself as a manager of his contracts, how to share bonuses, how to acquire overnight wealth, how to become a once-known and respected media person. And in fact, we have witnessed very often these years, which we needed to serve as an example abroad, where in Germany, those from the former communist system, the other directors called them the concrete heads of the Colloquial, and those younger ones they suddenly created as director, and they are not up to it in Hungary, call them "helpful idiots" because they listen to everything they're told, and in Croatia they usually call them "managers of the year". So we had most of the managers of the year who were once in a state-owned company or they took that company into bankruptcy or ended up in Remetinco. But the media loves them, because there are stakeholders who want to install through their influences, through media propaganda, creating a picture of them as one of the only solutions good for governance and state-owned companies and actually promoting their private interests through them. Whoever is in the state-owned company must only care about the company's national interests and interests. And that such a leader he must take care of both the common good and the employees, and not when he comes to the company all that was before him is wrong. Share your notices, replace everything as if no one had ever worked in that company 20, 30 years ago, worked, lived, created, and knew how it worked. No, he brings 20 young doves with him, in barefoot, in barefoot, in barefoot, and they're doing great. They immediately buy new cars, immediately fire and replace workers, fire and later return all this to them through court proceedings, so the company pays for the damages for illegal layoffs, for the reduction of salaries and no one is responsible for the damage done to such businesses. And it's a shame if the company has to pay off after the judgments have been done to those companies. What I must stress is very little attention to depreciation, technological modernisation. Well, those young managers can't do that, and that's the difference between those who do a great job. They're experienced, they learnt their jobs, they think strategically, they think long-term, they know how to make operational decisions, but they see in the distance. And we have such bright examples, but let it be a guideline on which we should choose everyone else. And let us all have a dose of responsibility when the members of the supervisory board and the board of directors are elected because they depend on the fate of Croatia. Commercial companies in majority state-owned ownership so much potential and the only remaining potential. Let us show positive examples of how a state-owned company can be managed and we have such examples, and not for example where I had to wait, I went from Zagreb to Dubrovnik five, six years ago and we had to land in Zadar to get a boy in short pants and a backpack on his back and board, and he was accidentally one of the most responsible in the airline itself. That's not how companies are run. That's irresponsible. In Frankfurt, we once waited for three hours of failure, but an entrepreneur came to sell his company in Switzerland for a few hundred million euros. He's been waiting three hours. It can't be how a state-owned company works. But we have opportunities, we see how it can be done, how it can be managed, and we follow those examples, and we judge right from wrong, let's decide better than wrong. It's the only way we can create Croatia. And let us point out every good, let us commend each positive, but we also need to calculate ourselves with those who are unable to run state-owned companies as required and asked. We have good examples, we have potential, we have so many capable, honest young people, but not young people of 20, but those between 35 and 50 who know languages, who also know languages, who know business processes, who are covered by business morality and are not infected with unethical treatment and will not be ashamed of every procedure, and then our companies will do better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65231	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65232	Dear colleague Marić in this otherwise inspiring speech that I could almost fully accept and agree with. You're still making one mistake. You're accusing these directors that you say they don't have enough experience, that they only have college education, that they're obedient, that they're not responsible enough. But you're neglecting that these executives, these managers, they didn't set themselves up. They were appointed by the Supervisory Boards, and the Supervisory Boards were appointed by the Government. And here we have one clear line of responsibility we can't now that we have a report like this that says 39 out of 69 of these companies deal with loss, wash their hands of that responsibility and say and listen to a small, undereducated, insufficiently solid character among managers. In particular, we cannot say that now that it has been discovered, or a paradigm is revealed, one of the patterns of behaviour of the highest governing structures towards these companies, which these companies have understood, at least in these investigations as self-service. So we can't ignore the intention or responsibility of those most responsible, so the government has to appoint just like that through the Supervisory Boards... , so we can't even take responsibility for them small, poor, under-experienced and under-performing managers, but if we want to solve the problem, if we're really going to solve it, then we need to figure it out globally, we need to understand the policy's responsibility for this situation. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65233	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65234	Thank you very much. I'm sorry you didn't hear the first part when I spoke on behalf of the club, I was also talking about the relationship between the supervisory board and the board. I did not ignore the role of the Supervisory Board, and it is very important that they play their part, because they must be even more educated and professional than the administration, and at a strategic level, they must accept the business plans of each company, and that is what is most lacking in the business and development plan of companies. That's what to insist on. But this is exactly the government, and it's made a decision to choose different boards of supervisors, and now the supervisory board system is changing, and I hope he gets better results, because I agree and I said today if I chose as chairman of the supervisory board of bad directors, then I'm responsible for his behavior. It's not his fault he's doing the wrong thing, he's gonna be responsible for his business, but I'm responsible, and I have to go with him, because I put the wrong man, the wrong man, recommended. It is often ignored who recommended whom, and we need to know that it is responsible for the one who wrongly recommends it, thereby preventing the way for those who are worthy, quality, good, educated, who love this company and who love their business. And the only thing that matters, and I ran 10 years of state-owned companies, and I was called by the ministers and told you this one would be a good director, I said take him home when he's so good. Please, can you transfer a few million kunas, borrow a private company? I can't, he's looking for someone else, and it can't be the behavior that Caesar says he does, but it's done. It can't be in state-owned companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65235	And Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65236	Dear colleague Maric, from your debate as if you would not accept this report, that you are not satisfied with the bad business results of state companies, suspicious and any managers that make the crash, almost no state-owned companies, a large state-owned company in which no affair occurred, and that's all you've touched. So the question to you is why do you accept this report on the business of these companies, or state-owned companies? And the question is, who's calling the board of directors? And he doesn't call it SDP. It's called the government. Who's responsible for this situation in state-owned companies? Well, the government is responsible. That's what we're trying to warn you about. And it's not about new or old managers, it's about fair or unfair managers in any company, especially the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65237	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65238	My colleague Bernardic, no one is more advocacy to accept this report than I am, I don't know how or how you conclude. I am just welcoming and congratulating the government on this report, because this is the first time, and everyone has had the opportunity to deliver it, everyone has had the opportunity to make such a decision, not but this very government has made it. And talk about the report itself, it's excellent, it deserves every praise, but it also talks in principle about managing state-owned companies where there is progress, where good results must be achieved, and where efforts are seen and changes made. I only support such changes and stop, because it is one continuity, it is one policy not only in the last 5, 10, it is a policy in Croatia that is worth so. Well, that's the kind of policy I had when I was an intern 30 years ago. So I was the directors of an illiterate person who couldn't put one sentence together. They couldn't write a memo. Unfortunately, today there are also those who are looking for a spokeswoman, who are seeking public relations, who are only engaged in this, who are more important in public relations and who are more important than in governance, but it is not an issue of honesty and dishonesty for handling. There was no more honest person in the world than my father, but no one would give him, the deceased, but... to run a state-owned company, but it's a prerequisite and to be fair. [[You don't understand.]] But there's so much to have, but to have so much you can't do it at 20, you can't do it at 80, but everything has its natural sequence, and you know when a man is ready for what function, and when he's in full strength for a certain function. As a counselor, you can't be yourself, at your age, so I can't even be me because I'm not your age, like you. You're more revolutionary, you're more explosive, you're stronger, but all in your time. That's why I said once too soon you came to the position of President of the Holding Assembly, but I guess you'll manage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65239	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't raise a plate or a replica, or a correction to Mr. Maric, although he would agree with him in many ways. But I still can't agree that youth is in exclusive correlation with inability, so management and relative incompetence. So there are abilities and there are incompetent ones, there are those who know and those who don't know, there are honest and unfair people. So I wouldn't just bring life to an exclusive correlation with what I said. But it was not my intention to tell, but it was my intention to talk about this report that was correct, which for the first time saw these assembly benches of ours, and which was created by a methodology that was simply uniform for all companies in, and societies of special state interest, so that we can look at the situation in these companies, or in these societies. A colleague who spoke on behalf of the HDSSB Club, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja mentioned that out of 69 companies of special state interest whose report is here for 2009, 8 of them were located, located in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, in the Croatian part of Srijem, so maybe it's really when we look at both the core capital and the number of 69, relatively small... given the economic indicators in 2009, it might be better not to have many. It is the trends shown here, so I'll say after this, then we'd better not have these extra negative trends in Slavonia and Baranja. And now I'm gonna start at the end. So, in addition, whether this is Table 6 shows the number of constantly employed workers, therefore, the last page of this Report, which clearly shows that the number of constantly employed workers, therefore, has been reduced to 110 thousand in 2009 by 1254. Exactly, for 1354 and in the Report on the Đuro Đaković Group, page 15 says that the total number of permanent employees in the group Đuro Đakovic has been reduced from 2031 to 925 or 1106 workers. So of the total in Croatia, the reduction in the number of jobs in the Slavonski Brod and the Posavina County, the Đuro Đakovic group reduced not to say lost the number of permanent employees in 2009 by 1106. Here is the relationship, here is a parameter that shows the special interest of the state for Slavonski Brod, for the Đuro Đakovic group and for the County of Brodo-Posaviska. In the table or tables that are in front of this on pages 192 and 193 of this Report, there is also talk of profit and loss after tax, and then in companies that make profit and out of particular national interest, among them 29 there is only one that has only a small minimum profit, which is measured at exactly 710 thousand kuna, it is Osijek Airport, of which 29 is only one in positive or has profit. Of the 39 that have achieved the loss of all the other Slavonians to say 7. Well, then we have a Vupik, a loss in 2009. 434 million. IPK Osijek 152 million, Borovo group 145 million kuna, Grupacija Đuro Đaković 30 million kuna, Bizovačka spa 18 million kuna, Luka Vukovar, which ended without loss in 2009 shows a loss of 7 million and 800 thousand kuna and eventually the Institute for, the Lipik Recreation Centre shows a loss of 6 million and 730 thousand kuna. Here is, therefore, objective indicators of companies owned or of special, mostly owned by the state and of special state interest for the Republic of Croatia, which are located in the area of these five of our Slavonian counties. When you talk about young people coming out of college and running into the governance structures of certain companies and companies, it's even worse for Mr. Marić when people who have come into the management structures who have ended up, there are fast trains but there are fast-tracked colleges, or as I once said... schools, then they buy diplomas and then they are sent to management structures, not only are they young but they are also uneducated or educated on their noses, so that because of their similarity, party belongings can be included in the management structures of such important companies and so important societies, to say companies of particular national importance or interest. So with this exposure or the debate you had here, I thought you were a member of the HDSB or I should say the opposition parties, and I agreed and I agree with the great majority of your exposure. When we talk about others to go wider, so in Croatia, then there are shipyards here, there is Post Office Bank, Croatia Insurance, there is talking about the announcement of privatisation, or I would say the acceptance that is carried out still may not be as open as before, but in a more perfided way of privatisation, and here is whether it is really the turn to either silver or gold, however you will like, such as Postage Bank or Croatia Insurance privatises. And whether it must be privatised or we can, that business, if other commercial banks in the Republic of Croatia make such a profit as someone said here, measured in billions of kuna, how can the Croatian Post Bank not get positive results? Well, it can't come, given not only the Croatian Post Bank, but the rest, they can't come when they're burdened with such economic criminal, corruption scandals and affairs that burden billions of kunas, it counts even though no one has yet made an analysis of how much money in these affairs has gone into party accounts, either in private pockets, and it's about the number, the amount of money of around 15 billion kuna, which is right here this year's deficit of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. With these 15 billion kunas, we would be zero and therefore we wouldn't have new debts that would have to come in the same way as the government budget deficit. When we just remember here's how the people like to say it, and here's my up in Slavonia kidding and that we have red and green trucks, etc., so they firearms one, military one, and I'm not talking about other affairs in, from HEP, HAC about a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65241	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65242	The HDSSB has already said, although the report is correctly written in methodology and for the first time we have and praise this way of reporting to the Croatian Parliament, given the content, not the report
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65243	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65244	My colleague Grubisic, unlike some of your party colleagues, has this debate and what you have told me you have promoted a culture of speech, so I will rephrase it to you otherwise I would never have told anyone. You said they only exist capable and incompetent. It's partly just true because it's not a static category, it's a dynamic category. There are able to learn and cannot learn. There are able to advance, further improve, professionally educate and those who are not able to do so. There are absolutely no capable and absolutely incompetent. A man's been learning his whole life. So when I talk about time limits and everything is in its own time, a man simply at 25, 30 is unable to learn everything he asks for a certain function, and not only, we need to know that there are organisational levels in every company in management. Well, it's not just the top manager that's at the lowest level and the highest levels. So let them only systematically spend their years systematically and progress as is done in all democratic countries and developed companies. To know now who will be the director of production in 3 years, 4 or 5. They systematically prepare their employees. And that's what I'm talking about. And HDZ looks that way, HDZ does that. It makes changes and corrects what was bad, and there is what is bad and it would not be good at the principle that individual directors are worth being able to succeed only in life if they give up their conscience. I'm against that principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65245	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65246	Well, you told my colleague Marić, I've all agreed with this first piece of your replica, but this last thing that HDZ does is I can't agree because I don't know how long he's been doing it when he's setting up exclusively similar and suitable, regardless of the years and the school and the incompetence and the ability to function which he wants and which he chooses through these state-owned companies of particular interest. And this isn't an example report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65247	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65248	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Boro, I think you mentioned this part that of the 65 eight is located in Slavonia and Baranja. I think that's the fact that when we look at it and we're better off not having any more because here and VUPIK is no longer in Slavonia, or is no longer in this because it's bought, privatized and now shows even more quality results. However, what is characteristic here is the question of this IPK group d.o.o. Osijek, IPK Osijek, is the rest of a large combination that is privatized and unfortunately privatized in the same characteristic Croatian way. It's taken what's right, and the rest is destroyed, or the workers who stayed in this poor remnant take very little care of them. What was "successfully" claimed in this IPK were the same with various transactions and borrowings that led to this IPK, the rest of it especially to the oil company Chepin, which led workers to seek their salaries on the asphalt of the capital. At the same time in the board of directors, i.e. the Supervisory Board, there are also people from that part of the IPK who successfully privatised it under quotes. Also, when you see the salaries of 19 thousand, over 19 thousand IPC directors of this remains are very characteristic and high, and it's known that he's probably come to that place. And now we come to the image of Cobankovic and our vice president to solve the IPK issue, and yet the solution is not only in these salaries but in everything else that oil and everything else can produce, but nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65249	Anything for the oil company. And Mr. Representative Pero Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to point out for the two werewolf companies Mr. Grubisic listed. The Bor's group is doing a positive job, given the war damages that it has had 300m euros, and former employees are seeking and exercising their rights to paid internships, severances and so forth. The Croatian Privatisation Fund helps to regulate such obligations liquidally, but at the same time the Croatian Fund is charged with taking of pine property. It is this fact that an explanation for the high loss shown in business in 2009. This loss did not arise in the ongoing business, but was indirectly and directly due to work events. And Luka Vukovar had no job for a year and paid for it, didn't ask the state to pay its workers, but had previously paid workers who didn't have full capacity for the job from reserves and good business. But here comes Luka Vukovar, now she's got a job, and she's still gonna be fine. But I can say that both companies have good administrations that really look after every kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65251	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65252	Mr. Mlinaric is called either trust me or your eyes. That's how I have to tell you, under number 13. 193 says that the loss of the Boro Group after taxing 145 million and 600 thousand kuna. I don't know what you're talking about. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65253	Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65254	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The fact that for the first time in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, this report really deserves all the praise. This report presents business data and business features 69 companies of which 66 companies of special state interest, 2 institutions, so Croatian water and Croatian radio and financial agencies with a total of 110 thousand 504 employees. The specificity of these societies is seen primarily in the fact that economic operators are one of the main levers of the implementation of economic policy and economic development strategy. In my debate, I will focus on an analysis of a society and it is about Luci Rijeka. In 1999, the company Luka Rijeka was registered as the largest concessionaire for the crossing of dry cargo in the Rijeka port area and a market-oriented company, which is based on a contract for the primary concession, performing port jobs. The basic activity of the company is to cover goods, warehouses and expeditions. In the ownership structure of Luka Rijeka on 31.12.2009, the share of the central state was 85.05%. Reduced economic activities caused by the economic crisis caused the fall in maritime transport and in Luka Rijeka in 2009. During 2009, total expenditure was reduced by the same intensity as the total income level, which is 12%. But it is important to point out that despite the decline in traffic, this company made a profit of 3.6 million kuna in 2009, and compared to last 2008 this profit increased by 15%. So global movements and the global crisis have affected the decline of total shipping traffic. In addition, there was a decline in the traffic of goods in the Rijeka route, so the total transport of Luka Rijeka in the past year was 5.2 million tonnes of cargo, with a decrease of 14% compared to 2008. Total revenues amounted to 228.9 million kuna and, as I said earlier, they recorded a 12% decrease compared to 2008. Total expenditures amounted to 224.7 million kuna and were also reduced by 12% compared to 2008. However, it is positive that the costs of Luke Rijeka staff fell by 9% in 2009 compared to the year 2008 when they stood at 93.5 million kuna. It is also important to point out that today there have been a lot of speeches on highly paid salaries in certain societies, I would like to stress here that the highest paid net salary in 2009 was reduced by 15%, and it was 10 thousand 486 kuna. It is also important to note that at the end of 2009, this company recorded a decrease in total liabilities by 14%, which amounted to HRK 160 million. The results achieved by this company in 2009 are better than planned, which is the result of very careful and thoughtful management of business processes, and the measures taken to save and streamline the Government of the Republic of Croatia has initiated through a series of its measures and activities. The basic characteristics of the company's business in the past year are the increase, hence the profit and continuation of the trend of increasing the profitability of the basic activity. The Rijeka port has been important in recent years as an important transit port for the countries of the hinterland, with the majority of EU member states. This trend and the measures taken are exactly what we were talking about today, so the responsibilities of management in this society show responsible management behaviour and this also has a bearing on maintaining stability and sustainable business, but also on strengthening the competitiveness of this economic operator, which is of paramount importance for the region as well as for the overall Croatian economy. When we talk about Luka Rijeka, then we really cannot not mention the very important project that contributes greatly to the development of the Rijeka economy and the Primorje-Gorski County, but in fact Croatia in general. So I would like to stress here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has launched a project to restore the river transport direction called the "Rjeka Gateway" project. In addition to modernising the port area, the loan also provides for the construction of road roads towards the port, but also for the purchase of the necessary port equipment. The purpose of this project is primarily to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, primarily through the improvement of the international transport chain through the Rijeka transport route for freight and passenger transport, by modernising links between ports and road networks, and by revitalising port business activities. The "Rjeka Gateway" programme is not intended exclusively for the construction and modernisation of the port, it is already designed as a strong support for the development of the Croatian economy in order to make it more dynamic and competitive in international frameworks. This programme will also increase the attractiveness of the port city, so the city of Rijeka itself by balancing and urban development, as well as by connecting with the transport corridor, the development of Luke Rijeka and as a tourist and business destination. Since Luka Rijeka, or the city of Rijeka itself, is strategically positioned in one of the most important pan-European transport corridors, which is corridor 5B. I would say, in fact, that the fact that Luka Rijeka successfully faces many of the development challenges set before her. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be in the future. And this example, although today in the debate, we could hear a lot of examples where negatively, in some ways negative references to the business of society of particular state interest, I would stress that Rijeka port is indeed a bright example of corporate governance. And of course, in the end, I want to point out that I will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65255	Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65256	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, Comrade Buterin. Since you were from Rijeka here, there was a speech, and you mentioned the height of the salary, there was a speech here, and the report says that the highest salary in "May 3rd" 71 thousand kuna was 463 kuna, later it was a correction that it was about 20 thousand kunas the highest salary and we leave it room for doubt. It is necessary to clarify, given that this company has achieved nearly half a billion losses, their income has been reduced by half, and it has also increased long-term and short-term liabilities for EUR 200 million to really clarify how much that salary was because I do not trust any of the other data. Because there was a payout based on an act contract, and it's important how many individuals in the month received the most total money. And that's what I think needs to be clarified in that sense and I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to conduct and in particular get the information... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65257	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65258	So this report is commendable that this is the first time it comes before the Parliament and that it is relatively well-transparently structured, but we cannot accept it because it does not state the reasons for such catastrophic data. The portfolio deals with loss, and the Ministry of Finance doesn't determine why, although everyone knows it, it's on the cover of all the newspapers, that's what investigations are about. Everyone knows that except the Ministry of Finance. It's said here in the debate, the state is a bad master. It doesn't always have to be that way. Bad country is a bad master, and what bad country is that? It's a state that has a bad government. Whoever appoints the Supervisory Boards, usually the Government at their closed sessions. Here's a colleague, Maric. He says he's fine. They're changing the board of directors. I don't know if they're going to change at closed sessions or holding government sessions, but I don't think it's enough. Who chose all those directors, who chose those boards. In the past, they were elected by Prime Minister Sanader. No decision could have been made without him, we all know that. It's impossible that the Treasury doesn't know that by doing an analysis like this. So they are his choice as Prime Minister Kosor is his choice, such as all ministers in the government his choice, as you are all colleagues of HDZ representatives here his choice. And all of you, as well as ministers and MPs, supported Sanader's choice of manager and supervisory board. I've never heard of any of you ever rebelling. You agreed to it, you supported it, and that's why you're responsible. Look Croatia has been robbed, it is a general place, it does not make sense to prove and redefine and it has been robbed in two stages. The first phase was in the 1990s during a period of wild privatisation, it was during the first HDZ administration. The second phase could be called the self-service phase during this second HDZ administration. What's that got to do with anything? In the first phase, it was going to privatize the well. The well was general, and then it was said it won't be general it'll be mine so I'll draw water from it. In the second phase, it was realized that it was unnecessary. Why privatize the well when the water can be grabbed from the well in general, and the state well was grabbed. It was a pattern of behavior, it wasn't an excess in a public enterprise with one of the directors, it was a scheme, a plan that was achieved pedanically. And it won't stop, colleague Maric, you're talking about bad managers. I liked your speech very much, I think he was honest, I think he was analytical. But you have to understand, this won't stop if the Ant replaces Bravak, it won't stop if the Wolfelic on the Supervisory Board replaces, for example. Katica Šolić. It won't stop. The system's not working. See how these public companies were divided. Podravka to HSS, Croatia Insurance to HSLS, so when HSLS exits the coalition then the Croatian Insurance Administration changes. That system's not working, we have to figure it out. It's always the responsible, politically responsible one who sets it up. I don't have anything in particular against them being ministers on the boards if they're qualified. Why, because the government is responding, the government is responding, but the ministers are watching. But when there's a crime, when there's a bad business, they have to answer, and there's a crime that I'm not talking about. When there's a crime, you know who's responsible. You can't get away from that responsibility. I think we have to agree on that. You know, Sanader can run across the border, but you can't run away from responsibility. You may now disown him with the same intensity that you have celebrated him, but it does not save you from those responsibilities. The blame for crimes is determined by the courts, and we won't be talking about it here. We have neither the right nor the authority to do so. But political responsibility, and I'm talking about it here is borne by the government that created the climate, the conditions, which encouraged them that today we have to read these reports. With the right of counterpart Maric, for example, HEP, rightly says that some companies could do better, even those who did business with profit. HEP is one of those. And what a gain it would have been if it hadn't been for this crime to be discovered. What would be the profit then? And we are now among this positive group in this report by the Ministry of Finance HEP, which is what they have done with the loss. It's not an accurate analysis. Yes, they've done business with winnings, but whether that gain is enough and who's responsible for it that's not bigger. And who is the only one who can be held responsible for these catastrophic monitoring committees and these bank robbers? And it is not possible that it happened by chance that several of these public companies were appointed criminals for directors. That's not possible. It can happen that a man sets someone up in good faith, and he steals it. And what do we know now that he's going to be a thief? That's possible. But it's impossible to be in such a large number. Which means the system that wrongly set them up made them criminals. They were required, policy required of them, the government of continuity demanded that they steal from these companies and carry money into the party or private pockets. That system's not working. You were responsible for that system of colleagues and colleagues, you imitated him, you chose him, you didn't object even when we warned, and we warned him three years ago. You said we were malignant, that we didn't want Croatia well, that we wanted to muddle her, that we were slandering her, that I didn't know what. Three years later we have this number of unemployed, we have these losses, we have low wages. You have to take that political responsibility. The competent responsible people admit her, confess her, say we supported the wrong man, we supported the wrong policy. Please let the citizens decide in the election, decide in the elections, create a new healthy foundation. If the citizens think you're not responsible, they'll choose you again, don't worry, they'll believe you. If they decide otherwise, they will choose someone else and give him the mandate to change this situation and this system. Because if we don't change the system, we won't solve anything. The ant will replace the Law and that will be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65259	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65260	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Stazic, you said this report did not state the reasons for this situation. However, it is an even harder issue because it does not give a solution. I'm going to have to go back to this IPK issue again and the oil company itself. I said the fire went out. Here's Cobankovic, the minister, has again shut down the situation of paying those two salaries. But there's no speech again, and these people don't know what the solution is, and I think the solution is very simple. The solution is simply in this situation that this factory has, in its environment, primary production, raw materials that are produced in this particular Slavonia and Baranja over 90%. It's both soy and sunflower and oily tail. Also, this factory has new technology, has very high quality products. Therefore, the solution is not to pay some wages from month to month or to avoid solving the underlying problems, and the problems are that the managements that are there and the supervisory committees that have come in the way you have spoken to Mr. Stazic as such to remove these supervisory committees and to go into the final solution. The solution is a quality and fair privatisation, and in the next report we will certainly not have to read such results. But if that doesn't happen and there aren't any of these root changes, we'll also be able to find in the next report that the losses are much greater in these companies, and especially in this, than in the profits we should have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65261	Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So by reading this Financial Report on business in the majority state-owned, looking at these dry data, you'd think it's okay and that's the maximum of what the government has done through its policy. However, when I look a little bit more and better, the Financial Report on the Croatian Forests is found above all that the Croatian forests are doing business with the profits of 11 million kuna but it is also found to be donations, i.e. that the funds of the OkFŠ are 423 million kunas in participation in the revenues of the Croatian forests. When there was a debate about reducing the general useful functions of the forest and then I said where the money of the Croatian forest was spent and how. Unfortunately, even in this report, there is no way that these coins except that they entered the income of the Croatian forests, whether they were spent in a transparent way or not in a transparent way, in which way and whether private forest owners under the Law on the Forests received that generally useful function of the forest or not. What is interesting and this is probably a reflection of the policy of the President of the Assembly, otherwise the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, Mr. Petar Cobankovic, trying to save the wood industry in 2008 ordered that the prices of wood assortants in the Croatian forests fall by and down by about 6%, thus causing the price of finished products to fall from wood, means both elements and sawn buildings and finished furniture on the world market for the same percentage. This puts the noose around the neck of the wood industry, and this is evident from one fact that the increase in demand from customers of the Croatian Forests has reached a reasonable claim on 444 million kunas. As far as I know, Croatian forests would now collect their claims, another fact that the value of harmonisation compared to 2008 has increased to 109 million kuna, or by 80 million kuna, which goes directly to the cost of Croatian forests, but these are suspicious and controversial claims, and it is doubtful whether Croatian forests will be able to charge them more. And the question arises from these 444 million on 31.12.2009, how many Croatian forests will be able to collect these claims? When we speak Croatian forests, we must not forget that this is the money of our citizens, that is, the income of our citizens. As far as I know Croatian forests to be able to collect as much of their claims, these buyers are now offering them some land that is also questionable property, whether everything is purchased and in privatised purely on those land, probably offering at their prices, rather than at real market prices, apartments are offered in ransom, also at some prices to others, and not at market prices, apartments are offered, etc. It is also becoming questionable whether the Supervisory Board is through the Public Procurement Act, whether it respects any of the things about it, but I guess that's going to be a turn, too, so you'll see what it is. One more thing is seen from the report, which is that the biological restoration of the forest to save and according to the government's orders of reduction and to God save 39 million kunas. As far as I know the prices of a hectare of care for the spring, i.e. investment in young forests is about 20 thousand kuna, and this turns out to be unrenewed, or uninhabited 2,000 hectares. I wonder why we leave it to our heirs, to our children, and what kind of forest are we leaving? Also, the reduction in investment by 71 million kuna, because as a result of savings, instead of Croatia's forests from KEFŠ's funds and direct borrowing withdrew some of the investments not in terms of buying new cars, but of opening forests and investment in forest roads, in order to reduce the cost of exploiting forests tomorrow, obviously it was not, but only a reduction in wages of 5%, and a reduction in the price of wood varieties. It is obvious from this that, and it is evident that Croatian forests as a system have been functioning in Croatia for 20 years, but it is obvious that, in this company, there is too much policy influence, so I will also remember in that, Mr. Marić the State Secretary mentioned 37, point 37 of the anti-recession measures, and anti-corruption measures, and I wonder what is one forgiveness to say still works in the administration of the Croatian Forests? Which is one person who said that she would no longer be a member of HDZ, overnight installed as a member of the Croatian Forests Management, regardless of her qualifications, she knows something about the wood industry, and speed traffic, I guess, at the end of the higher school, but he became a member of the administration. Does not by the behaviour of the owners, i.e. the one who manages this state, and the administration, do not belittle those thousands and 200 engineers who work in the Croatian forests, and most of them try to do their fair work, most of them try to earn their wages and their love for forests and forests to help us stay even more quality tomorrow and that our children and our heirs have an even better quality wood mass and supply. From all of this, this report cannot be supported, and I was hoping that apart from these statistics, so to speak, there will also be financial something about the restructuring of the Croatian forests, that there will be something about the value of the wood supply that is in the Croatian forests, that is, in Croatia, that we also know about, that we really know what the value of the forest is. In this way we know nothing, but as Croatian forests, they did business with 11 million kuna profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65263	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Podnar, we come from the same part of Croatia, from Slavonia where forestry is located. ... I apologize, from the same part of Croatia if I said Slavonia, because Slavonia is always in my head and we look from that level and problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Namely, Croatian forests are one of the companies that has experienced a major reorganisation, i.e. a large centralisation better said. You yourself said that over a thousand 200 engineers in the Croatian forests worked for years in the area and exploitation, as well as the restoration of forests and quality management. All key and major decisions in today's Croatian forests are made centrally in Zagreb, and among other things, the decision on what kind of forest exploitation will be, what forest restoration will be, and what you say will be left to our future generations. Similarly, decisions on human rights are made, and very often people who are really only there in some third, fourth traces have to do with forestry, and then subsequently and with the wood industry are referred to such places where their quality can neither be expressed nor can be expressed, nor is it even better said in such a position that it is not necessary. Therefore, you know well that attitude of Slavonian foresters, that the question of decentralisation of forests is one of the key issues for the development of wood industry in Slavonia, but also for the development of forestry before that, and that in this way the management of Croatian forests would certainly be much more quality and much better, and then this would certainly be the result expressed in public business reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65265	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65266	Well, fellow Heffer, here's what I need to tell you exactly what the Croatian woods are doing. In 2002, Irish forests were paid for the restructuring program of $350,000. In 2004, this administration came in continuity to power so that this restructuring program ended up in one drawer, looking at the lowest place. And as far as I know, 2009. The Faculty of Economics in Zagreb for 2 million kunas, according to the newspaper, also made a restructuring programme for the Croatian Forests, was publicly presented in the 6th month at the Days of the Croatian Forests in Koprivnica, but it seems that it is also going through that first restructuring programme, which unfortunately without the total restructuring of forestry will not again experience any changes without quality restructuring of forestry, without the decentralisation of Croatian forests will not happen again. And this is when you talk about staffing within the Croatian forests, and unfortunately I am a witness that some club presidents had to call the management of Croatian forests what is happening, why it does not move from that workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65267	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65268	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, this report we are discussing today may be one of the most important reports for Croatia's economic picture, a political picture of Croatia, however you will, for all the affairs marked by recent political events in Croatia and this yesterday. An arrest warrant for the former prime minister. The report recognises first and foremost the importance of state-owned companies for the Croatian economy as a whole. 76 billion kuna income. That's 23% of the GDP that goes to state-owned companies. That's two-thirds of the state budget. So, with the state budget that's being voted on here, which is available to the public, there's another two-thirds of the value of the state budget that you can't see. Who only see those who have the opportunity to sit on the board of directors and then in the administration and appointed by the Government. This puts the business of these companies fully at the responsibility of the government itself. This report acknowledges that in 2009, a loss of 3.5 billion kuna was made. 3.5 billion kuna in these connected and unrelated state-owned enterprises. 3.5 billion kuna is a budget greater than the total budget of Rijeka, Split and Osijek. That's half the budget of the City of Zagreb. Now you see how small and poor, almost irrelevant local self-government is in Croatia. 3.5 billion losses were only made in these societies, which is more than the budgets of Rijeka, Split and Osijek combined. Now, in such a highly centralised state that is centralized around so that the central state has 85% and local self-government units are only 15%, in such a highly centralised state, if the government shakes, if the central state shakes. Do you know which is the only more centralized state than Croatia? Greece. And we witnessed how it went. In one Denmark, which is 64% of all assets at the level of units of local self-government, and only 36% at the level of the central government, do not care about the cities and municipalities of the Dala town have a capable or incompetent government because it is not dependent on, unfortunately all Croatian citizens and units of local self-government and cities and municipalities and counties depend on the government. Units of local self-government, cities, municipalities and counties of negligible incomes in relation to the size of the loss from the business of state-owned enterprises. And then we go back to where the loss came from. Well no wonder, we were doing an analysis for 21 companies, that in the crisis year in which we should reduce costs in 2009 we have, for example, in the Rijeka-Zagreb highway 22% increase in the number of employees. In Croatia, it is also 15% at the level; in Croatian roads, Croatian highways it is at 11%. So, at a time when the private and real sector is suffering, when over 80,000 people are out of work, when the real sector is moaning, they can say that from this pay phone, in that year you're putting new people into state-owned companies by whatever key they are. Well, it's no wonder that the business result at the end of the year is 3.5 billion kuna lost. Loss that is greater than the budget of Osijek, Zagreb and Rijeka together. Osijek, Rijeka and Split. That's the loss half of the city's budget, what are we talking about? Who's responsible for who? Well, whoever's in charge. And it's run by the government through the board of directors. Furthermore, in such a difficult situation when there is no power to restructure then it goes into something called let's do studies, let's analyze what can be done, let's connect and separate the companies because that might make our privatisation more certain. You see, for example. the case of Croatia and Croatia's economic bank. He's trying to bring it together, that's to bring it together. Croatia's security against its assets has a 5-fold lower business result than any other insurance house. That's true. It's the worst insurance company in the case of business success. That's just something to tell people. On the other hand, you have a Croatian postal bank which the citizens, who other than the citizens, have managed with half a billion kuna. Because there would be a mess. And that's where I agree with you fellow Maric when you say how managers are in these companies, so you probably thought of one of them. Now you see I've raised that question so-called. The study commissioned by the ministry related to the energy sector is related to the separation of HEP into three organisational units, i.e. three companies. This was not done with the Croatian Fire institution but with one private company... about it was written in the media, but what is the essence of the story is that all countries that have transformed their energy giant into three or more companies have experienced the fate of privatisation, Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, that is what we need to worry about and that is what we cannot allow. INA yesterday we spoke most about INA and today we need to repeat it again, we must not allow, as Hungary protects its interests by not allowing anyone to own more than 50% other than Hungary's state, the MOL shares, let's do it and do it why we're running away from it. Why would anyone be a 50% owner of the INA? With a special law in this House, we can prevent INA from being sold out until the end. That's what I'm warning you. And in the end, I'm going to touch one part of it, and I asked my HSS colleagues, because this plan for HEP separation to three companies is contained in the coalition agreement, and I'm responsible that it's not, so now I can return the story, that I've looked at the coalition agreement that was on the web pages, and it says, HEP, it's a restructuring of privatisation. So obviously that was the plan. And once again, and with that I will conclude, the responsibility for business is on whoever sets up the administration, and the Supervisory Board, that's the government, three and a half billion kuna loss in 2009 is huge money. Money that is as big as half of the City of Zagreb's budget, money that is bigger than Rijeka, Osijek, Split together. Now you can see how in Croatia local self-government, municipalities and cities are irrelevant given this centralized country and the only one who is more centralized than Croatia is Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65269	Thank you. Corrections, Mrs. Djurdice's representative, twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct your several incorrect allegations because using this Assembly for my stage, you say you don't care about the citizens for local administration and cities, and you mentioned Zagreb over and over again. Well, I'm very interested in what you think citizens think about how you got out for your campaigns over 8 billion kuna, 800 million debt is now in the City of Zagreb, Zagreb is on its knees and credit rating is gone. Is this the way you think I don't know what kind of future to rule or is that your suggestion of government and your good governance?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65271	Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65272	Mr. Vice President, in his inspired speech, Bernardic seemed to have come from the American Holding and not from Zagreb. I will correct one in a number of incorrect allegations, which is that Croatia is the worst business insurance in Croatia. It is a tragedy when a colleague Bernardic says it is Croatia's insurance not the biggest insurance house in Croatia and the most non-profitable and against weaknesses still the best in Croatia and that trend Croatia needs to be preserved.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65273	Replicas Mr. Representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65274	My colleague Bernardić, as you pointed out in your presentation that for Croatia, the importance of all these companies is great, I must conclude that it is obviously not important for this government to conclude this report. As you said in 2009, the loss of $3.5 billion was made, it all tells us about what a great master government, a high-quality master of companies of special state interest. In the media every day we can read and read about various affairs, many affairs in these companies from HAC, HEP, Croatian Post Office, Croatian Forests, etc., and that is how this government rules. After each affair no one is guilty, ministers know nothing, they are absolutely nothing responsible, nothing happens to them they remain in their positions. I must conclude that we will find it difficult to move forward with this kind of policy, this government, which unfortunately closes its own eyes. It needs to be changed as soon as possible, because otherwise we might lose some other companies like INA, which you were also talking about this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65275	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65276	Well, here's what you've well noticed, fellow Habek, not only is it a bad business result, but these companies are also in charge. Imagine cities and municipalities they cannot be in charge and are not in charge. They're not in charge of this, I can't, because 5% is the threshold of their duties, and that's why they're better. Both Zagreb and Rijeka, and Osijek, and Split, all cities that simply cannot be in charge of themselves legally, but these companies have bad business results and are in charge. Take, for example, the poor business result of Croatia's insurance. So Croatia's insurance is the largest insurance company and no one escapes from it, but if you look at the profits combined with the assets, i.e. the asset, it is not comparable to the competition, there are the weakest ones. That's it. It's the biggest asset, but the gain relative to the asset is the weakest, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65277	Ms. zastica Bozica Šolić, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to answer, but my colleague Bernardic, being a representative in the City of Zagreb, had to react. Namely, I gave the replica for this reason to answer not only to me but also to the citizens of the City of Zagreb three very important questions, which is: First, my colleague Bernardić, tell me and the public of the City of Zagreb, the citizens, what is the loss of the City of Zagreb today? How many billion? You have to admit it to me, I'll tell you that. Eight billion. Today, the City of Zagreb has 8 billion. You are here saying that public companies are at a loss of 3 billion, but the City of Zagreb Holding the City of Zagreb is itself 8 billion in losses. And you carried that loss over the next year. Secondly, you have to answer to my colleague Bernardić, we in the city of Zagreb who lives do not know who runs the City of Zagreb? Is it run by the congregation, i.e. Is it Šprem or Milanovic, or is it run by the mayor, Mr Bandic? That's the same answer. And third thing, you must imagine very much who you have been running the City of Zagreb for 11 years that the City of Zagreb lost credit rating. What's he saying? You are devoting yourself of a recession over a difficult situation not only in Croatia but in the whole world, while not taking care of what you are in charge of from the citizens of the City of Zagreb. Comrade Bernardić, you can't even put your shoes on credit today to those who clean our Zagreb streets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65279	Okay. Replication response. Here you go. The answer to the line, Mr Bernardich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65280	Mrs. Šolić, first of all, I'm glad I could be on the anniversary of the opening of the School in Brezovica and the anniversary of the school. I'm going to the football club anniversary next weekend. And it's good when people visit places to visit. I'm sorry you weren't there. [[I was in Vukovar.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65281	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65282	You're in the business of losing, and you'll have a chance to deal with it. And I hope and pray and appeal to your party's leadership to get the opportunity to become a representative in the city hall because you will thus protect the interests of the citizens of the City of Zagreb, for those you believe are good. And when it comes to the loss of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb is not a company that can do business with losses, Zagreb is not in charge of the city because it has 5% limit by the Minister of Finance. You can only talk about the deficit last period. The deficit last period is 10 times smaller than the loss of the state-owned companies we are discussing today. And who runs the City of Zagreb? He's being led by Milan Bandic. You could have known that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65283	Peace, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure because we attended the current hour here, i.e. asking questions Mrs. Šolić, a colleague of Bernardic. But no matter what the injured Rules of Procedure is, I would ask you to continue to tolerate it, too, Mrs. Solic, because the more she performs like this, the more she ratings us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65285	You misused your right to make it look like you were hurting a businessman for each other. That deserves one warning, Mr. Maras. He deserves but a probationary warning with a one-year probation. Mr. Representative Goran Maric, replica. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, it was Goran, but on this side. Dear counterpart Bernardić, then listening to this debate within the agenda item Report on the work of state-owned companies, so we see the company's business as the left hand blocks the work of the right hand. And during the debate on how you say 3.5 billion losses to state-owned companies, attention, debate and everything else is directed to the City of Zagreb, the city of Rijeka is mentioned, etc. I believe and know knowing you and talking to you that you are not against everything that has been done wrong all that has been unlawfully done to investigate, process and solve. This applies to both the City of Zagreb and the city of Rijeka, etc. On the other hand, the debate with this divorce is clouded and clouded. The debate on those matters that are important about HEP, HAC about Croatia post office etc. is clouded. And he's trying to focus on something completely local. Let local people sitting in city councils, sitting in congregations, municipal councils, etc. They solve their problems, let them point out, and let them initiate actions. Let's go back here for a key question. I don't think 3.5 billion kuna is a small amount of money to be ignored because I don't know it in Zagreb as an esteemed colleague of 8 billion kunas said. But it is a model that keeps working on whenever a particular problem is highlighted at the state level that needs to be discussed by the Croatian Parliament, it always focuses on some local level because there is someone who is not known which party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65287	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65288	Well, fellow Heffer, you're right. So look here we're discussing 3.5 billion kuna losses. Balls are thrown on cities and municipalities, towns and municipalities are crumbs from the table. Borrowing of Croatia 2009 to 2011 40 billion, budget deficit 14 billion. The municipalities and towns of Croatia local self-government are crumbs from the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65289	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I already know in advance that I'm not going to last the year you gave me, but I'm going to try on your criteria that apply to me, I'm going to try to endure. I'm replicating my colleagues to Bernard, and I'm particularly inspired to say, look at the results of these companies' companies, which apparently no one controls. 3.5 billion kunas of poorer results, Croatia's insurance that has 3 billion and 200 million kunas of only 40 million profits. Look at the H.P.B. As all banks in Croatia earn money, they gained a profit of 4.5 billion kuna in that year, the HPB lost 500 million kuna. Now the question is either being mismanaged by these companies or, in some ways, these companies contribute a lot to the budget, so they have worse results, give cheap services to their fellow citizens or something else is wrong. Unfortunately, there is no benefit in the state budget from these companies but those still receive 3 billion kuna a year from the state budget. So it's such a big source I'd say non-transparentity, crime, and that's why it's so much less a result of these companies' work. And it's amazing that some colleagues here claim that Croatia's insurance is doing well, at 3 billion kunas, they make 30 million profits, and they're almost monopolies in certain forms of insurance. Unfortunately, some want it to go on like that, but another year, gentlemen, so it won't work anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65291	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65292	Well, some slightly stronger dams Croatia insurance, probably have some reasons for that. Who's responsible, so that's the question you're up against, who's responsible. And who appoints these people, the board of directors, but who appoints the Supervisory Board, rules. So we very clearly want to say what we repeat, without fair, transparent management of state-owned enterprises, will not be possible to encourage the Croatian economy either. Why, because state-owned companies are big carriers and generators of gross social product in Croatia and that is what we are always warning about. And that is why it is extremely important how they are managed, and it is therefore extremely important that from 2009 to 2008, no loss of 3.5 billion kuna is created. 3.5 billion kuna is huge money, that is half the budget of the City of Zagreb, which is what we are talking about, which is more than the budget of Rijeka, Osijek and Split combined. Local self-government, cities and municipalities and I will repeat that are compared to the central state and state-owned crumbs from the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65293	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65294	We are discussing today a report on the business of companies of particular national interest and whenever anything in the Croatian Parliament has been discussed which has proved of particular national interest in practice that special private interests, the most private and the most dirty, have been hidden behind this particular state interest. So today, by discussing the business reports of these companies, of course, the honor of exceptions, which can and most importantly be said about how they were doing business, not only these technical data in that mathematical sense, accountingly but simply about the core and being their functioning because through them the Croatian government worked from 2004 to today. That's where the real nature of that government was discovered. What was said earlier, we have been saying for years on similar occasions, few who then dared to write at all about what we were talking about that these companies, as it has been repeated here, are doing business on the ATM system, self-services, but it was one euphemism, one too mild a word, because it also needs to have their own card. These companies operated in such a way that they should have only had a special party maestro government gold card for them and it was inexhaustiblely hot. From there countless posters, from there countless circuses and carousels when each election campaign, hence the funds. So, instead of these societies being proven as in all modern and orderly normal societies, normal states function, such societies are the engines of every nation's development. And with us precisely because of the way they worked they actually wrapped Croatia in black. They proved to be such enterprises as Croatian funeral companies. It's not about individual excesses that someone's been doing in these companies, it's about system stuff, it's about politics. We have to read through the media, and every time we try to get rid of what money is, they say too mildly, sucked out. It's not money sucked because it's supposed to be if it's been sucked somewhere, it's stolen money from such companies. Because a long time ago, the spoils of war were spent, which was also mentioned here, and so the undried heat was found. And that's why it's expensive and water and electricity, actually, I'm going to leave the water here now, and a lot of the services that citizens need, which businesses here do in a monopoly way, so whatever the crisis there is, there's always this money. As my colleague Zgrebec said, instead of seeing in this report one detailed analysis, the measures that need to be taken to establish one good business that is all missing. But we are far from starting a normal business, first of all what these societies need, to stop the robbery of these companies. Which is why HDZ has been refusing to nominate the Penal Code for 7 years now. We've heard here today from some business colleagues, so we single out the wrong business, inadequate business from criminal responsibility. No, in all modern societies, wrong business when it comes to state-owned companies, companies are made up of and represent a certain form or the occurrence of a criminal offence because it is being debated about state money. Well, if it's not intentional, then you've got reckless treatment. But the responsibility of management is not established here, but is the setting up of persons who will be subjects and who well know that they must fulfil their duties, or orders, and that is the criminal orders of those who have appointed them. When my colleague Marin Jurjevic asks where the money from Brodosplit is, from companies of special social interest, then, not from the director, the president of the company's management, but from the top government officials of the then prime minister, we have the answer: I know who your grandmother was, I know who your uncle is. Even in that response that many media then admired as a wonderful answer, in response to the real politician who can get out of the awkward situation. Will the time come for such to be shown as in the beginning thieves for hiding something. If any colleague asks, if Marin Jurjevic asks where the money from Brodosplit is, is that the answer of the responsible authorities. So it's not about a responsible authority, a society that has already been named here as an incompetence of unlimited irresponsibility without any BO which is not harmless but a society without any responsibility. HDZ in every campaign has HDZ knows. Where's the money from these companies? It is not important in this Report to say whether a company has done business positively rather than where the money is, who will make a proper audit of all these companies where you will see how much the funds from each individual company are estranged but still. Which is it, we still have no definition today which societies are of particular interest and what are the criteria for a company to become a society of particular interest. In one France, it is known, in one Germany is known. Such companies are never privatized. Today we have companies where the state has raised huge loans to the World Bank, at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will be introduced into these societies, spent, and then tomorrow you will say that they are no longer, that the interest is now sold by such a company. It's the biggest scam, and it's the kind of policy that needs to be exposed. We have already witnessed that societies of particular social interest cease overnight to be societies of particular interest when they have sucked in the welfare of government money or taxpayers' money overnight became private because the government has suddenly said that the special state interest is now selling such a single company. So we need now as a first step first of all to define what this is a special state interest and then at the beginning, many abuses and all of what we had the chance to enjoy would be disabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65295	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65296	The truth is that I asked in the Croatian Parliament many times then the Prime Minister, Mr Sanader, where the money from Split's smuggling is. Here's a big surprise for some of us yesterday, and it's a surprise for him to go across the border, and I'd say it's just me. To me, the answer is to run across the border. Maybe I can find that answer one day if that person writes an autobiography that could probably be called from intensifiers to political emigrants. Maybe that's where the answer is. But I believe that there are others in Croatia who can give and who will one day give an answer to where the money from Split's smuggling has disappeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65297	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65298	Very short, colleague Jurovic. If Croatia had only one responsible person then indeed it would still be, it could be called a happy country. However, the one who stole and held the bag, and such helpers and bag holders were progress in Croatia, if not greater responsibility, and these are all those who make the greatest distance and all of its apologists he has set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65299	Five-minute discussion, SDP representative club Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65300	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with fellow colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club in this Report shall draw the following conclusions or may conclude. In Croatia and in particular, we have a crisis that is expressed by the decline in gross national income, with a decline in industrial production, a greater number of unemployed, huge inequity, huge external debt and what is particularly worrying about is the increasing amount of unpaid taxes and contributions. In addressing such an economic crisis, state property is expected to be used in a way to mitigate the consequences of the crisis in the real economy. But unfortunately, the SDP club concludes that we have not used quality management of social property, and in order to address these difficulties in the economy. We had seven years of stable power of the current coalition today. But at the same time in those seven years, the majority-owned companies of the Croatian state did not ensure economic growth, they did not ensure either investment growth or investment did not ensure development. Unfortunately, in these seven years, the stable authorities have not carried out, in good faith, the restructuring processes or the processes of society management organisations. And finally, what is unfortunately a good part of the fact we have secured losses in these assets of the Croatian state and at the same time the problem is neither able to collect their research nor knowingly charge them but at the same time they do not pay their commitments. It is an assessment of the management of the property of the Republic of Croatia in a crisis situation. We are particularly concerned that in this material it is estimated that the causes of this situation in the management of the state portfolio are a global crisis. Therefore, the completely misrepresented facts about the causes of this condition, so of course we have no measure at the time. And this is the conclusion where we believe we have not contributed to the stabilisation of the Croatian economy, nor to the rise of the investment and development capacity of the Republic of Croatia. About the report itself, what we have to say and conclude is just the fruit of the collected data from the Ministry of Finance. We are concerned that no competent ministry gives an assessment of the situation in transport or energy or in the economy when we talk about shipbuilding, or about forest resources, water resources, agricultural resources. The competent departments with their assessment of the condition of the cause, but what's most important tomorrow, we don't have in this report. And we are particularly concerned that in the analysis of this material, the Croatian government has not presented to us parliamentary representatives possible conclusions, conclusions that should have been made to tell us very clearly that we will turn investment's negative trend of economic growth into positive economic growth, and how positive economic growth we can expect with better management of these Croatian resources. We didn't get any suggestions which part of the economy should be particularly careful, within which deadlines we will raise it to such a significant level, that it will start the real sector. I'm particularly thinking about the energy sector here. And we don't have a proposal here or a further privatisation policy, because it is evident that part of the state-owned sector needs to be privatised to attract additional investors and additional capital. Therefore, neither quality material, but unfortunately nor governance, which means helping the real sector. That's why the SDP can't accept this kind of material.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-10-0.u65301	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 14. Report on the business of companies of particular national interest for 2009 In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am giving the following conclusion to the vote, the 2009 Report on the business of companies of special national interest is adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. With 76 votes in favour and 30 against the proposed conclusion.
