ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53773	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable Madam Representatives and MPs. Here as you know within the program... The Governments of the Republic of Croatia, the revision of the pension systems acquired under special conditions and their reduction, and the preparation for the gradual abolition of the specific rights of individual categories. [[You don't understand.]] Accordingly, and one of the first measures shows the need to reduce pensions achieved under specific rules. Therefore, according to the final proposal of the Law on the reduction of pensions, which are achieved under specific pension insurance rules, the reduction of pensions and pension incomes of certain or specific pension insurance rules is regulated. The following pensions and pension incomes shall be reduced. Peacemakers in the Croatian Parliament, former members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Chief State Auditor, who are established and established under the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The peace of the President of the Republic, which shall be achieved and determined under the Law on the responsibilities and rights of officials of the State. The peace of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, who are being realized and determined under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The peace of former political prisoners determined under the Law on the Rights of Former Political Prisoners. The peace of the NOR participants since 6 April '41. until 15 May '45, pensions of members of the Croatian Homeland Army from 17 April '41. until 15 May 1945, the pensions of former members of the Ministry of Justice and the pensions of former members of the Executive Council of the Assembly, the pensions of administratively retired federal civil servants made according to the pension insurance rules applicable before the entry into force of the Pension Insurance Act, whose application is ensured under that law. The former JNA's former members were taken over by a succession of former SFRY, whose use was secured under the Pension Insurance Act. Peace of working military persons, police officers and authorised officials, justice and workers on demining operations, which are carried out and determined under the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, the Law on humanitarian demining and the Law on Special Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees in Mine Action. The peace of members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families, which are carried out on the basis of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The addition of pensions made and edited under the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. The reduction in pensions under this law shall include pensions and pension benefits of family members made under the pension insurance rules referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The reduction in pensions and pension incomes of this law is 10% and applies to the amount of pension belonging to the pensioner under the law prior to the deduction of an additional contribution to the health insurance of taxes, taxes and other suspensions. Exceptionally, in paragraph 1 of this Article, the beneficiaries of the pension provided for under the Law on the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts shall be reduced to the amount determined by applying the percentage referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to its total pension income. The amount of pension and pension income reduced under this law cannot be less than 3 and a half thousand kuna per month. By reducing pensions under Articles 2 and 3 of this Act, pensions in the monthly amount of up to 3 thousand 500 kuna, pensions of Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War and wartime wartime people with damage to the organism of 100%, pensions under the Law on Special Rights of Pension Insurance and Rights based on unemployed employees in the Istrian coal mines Tuljek d.d. Labin and pensions under the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. This reduction in pensions and pension incomes under this law will be carried out by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute without additional solutions. It should be noted that this law will apply to about 90,000 pensioners and is therefore expected to have a certain level of savings already in the course of this year, of course all the following years. I therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53774	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go. And the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53775	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Law on the reduction of pensions, which is achieved under specific rules on pension insurance with the final proposal for a law, which is in emergency procedure P.Z. 545. At its 19th session on 20 May 2010, the Council of War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on the reduction of pensions of certain, i.e. according to specific rules on pension insurance, with the final proposal of the law, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 13 May 2010, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee held the hearing as an interested working body, in accordance with the provisions of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee does not object to the adoption of an emergency procedure law. The proposer's introductory representative presented the basic features of the proposed law and the reasons for its proposal, which are primarily seen in terms of fostering economic growth, long-term sustainability of the social security system, and increasing the efficiency of social transfers. The proposed 10% bill would reduce pensions of more than 3 thousand and 500 kuna, but thus reducing pensions would not be lower than those of 3,500 kn. The reduction would cover pensions made according to specific rules in pension insurance i.e. those users who have made pensions more favourable. Among other categories of persons, this applies to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, members of the Croatian Defence Council, members of their families, NOR participants and members of the Croatian Homeland Army. The reduction would not apply to 100% of Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War. The law would apply from 01 July 2010. The savings in the State budget for this year will be around 250 million kuna. 2011 for the whole year 610 million kuna and in 2012 about 620 million kuna. The pension reduction will be carried out by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute without a solution, and the reduction will begin in August of this year. The number of Croatian defenders and members of their families to whom the law will apply is 55 782, while at the same time the law applies 7 260 NOR participants and 2 560 members of the Croatian Homeland Army. What the committee members in their debate primarily stressed was the need for avoidance and non-use... for privileged pensions that are particularly present in our media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given that pensions are carried out under special regulations, and knowing that the wounds, injuries, diseases acquired in the defense of sovereignty and death on the front line are certainly no privileges or privileges but are the consequences of participating in the defence of sovereignty and the creation of the Republic of Croatia. It is also necessary to detect, process, sanction any type of crime and corruption at all levels of society. Most defenders are aware of the moment in which we are also in a hurry for economic recovery, leaving the crisis, for which there is a series of opportunities in various areas. Consideration has also been given to postpone the application of the law until the time when the crisis tax was abolished has been applied. After the debate was held, the committee decided, by a majority vote, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of the Law on the reduction of pensions of certain, i.e. according to specific rules on pension insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53776	Thank you. Two more committees to discuss. Anyone else want to discuss it on behalf of the board? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53777	Honorable President, Minister, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, first of all, I will stress that the HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Pension Reduction Act under special regulations. However, the fact is that unfavourable economic movements resulted in a financial crisis culminating in 2009 and this situation reflected budget revenues significantly less than needed to finance all public needs. When I say the public needs, of course, that I mean here first and foremost the wages, pensions and other social benefits that the state must secure from the budget. In order to stabilise and encourage economic development and growth, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought, I believe we all know that, the programme of economic recovery. In addition to the aim of achieving the long-term sustainability of the social security system and increasing the efficiency of social transfers under the programme, the revision of pension schemes acquired under specific rules is also envisaged. There are over 10% of such pensions in Croatia, meaning pensions acquired under these special conditions. And according to the latest data, we have information that there are 180,000 975 pensioners acquired according to special means that they say more favourable terms. Under the generally accepted understanding of pensions under a more favourable condition that they are experiencing a form of social injustice in public. The benefit of pensions under particularly favourable conditions is reflected in 2 segments. The first segment is the pension level, because they are more significant, and the second segment refers to the conditions for the right to retire because these conditions are more favourable. All pensions made under special regulations shall be paid to the burden of pension funds of generational solidarity. The Government of the Republic of Croatia through audits and proposed reduction of such pensions prepares and the gradual abolition of specific rights of individual categories. One of the first measures is this proposed pension reduction by 10%. Normally, this applies to pensions of more than 3,500 kn, but so that the individual pension after the reduction must not be less than that amount. So it can't be less than 3,500 kn. Justification for the proposed reduction of pensions except what I said in this economic recovery programme, the Government finds normally in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that in Article. Paragraph 16 and Article 51(1), which I quote, reads: "everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with his own options". This reduction will not cover, as I have already pointed out, pensions of less than 3,500 kn. The pensions of Croatian wartime disabled Croatian military people from the Homeland War and military disabled will not be covered, then pensions for damage to the 100% organism, mining pensions, Istrian coal mines "Tupljak" d.d. Labin and workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos. The proposed reduction would cover around 90,000 beneficiaries of such pensions, and will begin with a reduction from 1 July this year with a payment to be made in August. Saving State budget funds, as my predecessors have already said, would have been about 250 million kuna this year, next about 610 million kuna, and so in turn we don't now count the years. For all of this, I would like to stress once again that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this Law on the reduction of pensions under special regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53778	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53779	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Right now, let me say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this government's legal proposal. But we need to see why this proposal comes first and whether it's a palitative solution, a ceasefire, or if it's a systematic effort to edit this segment of the pension system. To cut pensions is due to the lack of money in the budget, the government's poor work throughout all these years has led to the lack of money and is now to be taken where it can be taken. The peace system is one of the systems in which it reaches. They were afraid of tunnels, they were selling electricity cheaply, so the money was gone. Retired people, even if they are retired under special regulations, will have to make up for that money, that is the essence of this legislative proposal. So-called Preferred pensions or pensions under special regulations annoy citizens, they feel like injustice and seek some kind of systematic solution. Well, if any systematic solution could be made at all, it could be. As we have heard these pensions under privileged conditions, under special conditions, so these preferential pensions are paid out of the pension fund and from the first pillar of generation solidarity, that makes the essence of injustice. A fair solution that the government does not offer and it would be good to offer it would be about like this, all retired under the general pension rules. Everyone. As much as you've been paying, there's going to be a pension for you, and then the state can decide if it's going to be for some categories of pensioners, but from the state budget, and not from the pension fund, it's going to add up to that pension. The State may therefore decide whether, when the President of the Republic is out of office, you will retire to the general pension rules or if you do not have the conditions for retirement, you will go to the labour market when your term of office expires or you may say we hold to the institution of the President of the Republic and we believe that when the President of the Republic expires, regardless of his full term, he should go to some kind of presidential retirement. But then his pension would consist of two parts, a pension on the burden of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, after years of internships, on payments and some addition that would be paid out of the budget and for which a decision would be taken by the State i.e. This Parliament. That would be a systematic solution. Because citizens rightly feel injustice especially those pensioners who are not in any of these categories. To pay out pensions from their retirement money under special regulations. This would be a systematic solution and the SDP Club would warmly welcome such a systematic solution because it would finally remove this issue from the agenda that would irritate citizens. Such a solution, however, has not been welcomed, we have welcomed a linear cut of pensions according to special regulations. Now, let's see who's getting those pensions by 10%. The largest group of Croatian defenders are 68 thousand 630, but this law will apply to them just over 50 thousand. Second, the largest group are participants of the People's Liberation War, 40 thousand 633, but this law will apply only to them 7 thousand. Why? Because their pensions are already down 90. So the average pension of the NOR participant is 2688 kuna. The average pension of the Croatian defender is 5611 kuna. I remind you that this House has brought a declaration of anti-fascism and, according to that declaration, these pensions should be evened out. Why? Because it's a fair solution. Participants of the People's Liberation Fight and Croatian defenders also fought for freedom. And it's not fair that they don't have that the state doesn't have the same relationship with them. What we've written in the Antifascism Declaration remains just written in the Antifascism Declaration, this government has no idea that this Declaration should be carried out. The prime minister likes to attend anti-fascist meetings, likes to appear during the celebration of Anti-fascism Day, but the government does not implement the anti-fascism declaration in that segment. The third group of users is members of the Croatian Homeland Army of 19 thousand. The Croatian formation, which would be called the Croatian Homeland Army in World War II, did not exist. Such armies simply were not there, they were partisans, they were indigenous and they were Ustasha. What would the Croatian Homeland Army mean? They're probably natives, so it would be good to call them that, because there just wasn't that formation. When she was gone, why make it up 50 years after the war or how long, when she was gone. 4th group are workers in certain internal affairs and justice are about 16 thousand, followed by the Croatian Army, and then members of the former JNA, so the Croatian Council of Defence, citizens who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, have never worked in it, have not even paid off their salaries in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia, but the Republic of Croatia is selflessly, sacrificedly out of the budget of the citizens and pays their pensions and is still privileged. The group around which there's always the most stories and the most noises we could call a group of chosen ones. They are former representatives of the Croatian Parliament, former members of the government and there is the President of the Republic. A group below 500 users has been selected. But it's kind of the most story. So the President of the Republic, he's one, so far we have him retired, and this government is going to cut that pension by 10%, and the government is going to make a significant savings in the budget. What is particularly wrong with this law is the fact that no solution will be issued. Decision of the Pension Insurance Office is the basic document of each pensioner. Why? Because it represents one real act on which it is possible to make a complaint means that what it says can be challenged. If a person is given some acquired rights or rights so far, a solution must be made. The State is obliged to issue a document on this. Why? To protect the right of one who has acquired the right to be reduced. So he could, for example. to make a complaint about it. It may occur that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is miscalculating a pensioner. It's just that people make a mistake. All people make mistakes. Why don't we make a mistake at the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. The peace will be reduced but the pensioner will not be able to do anything about it, because he will not have a basic document and that is the solution. Therefore, we consider this the worst part of the law, that provision and we call on the government to change that provision. The pensions are reduced by 10%, but the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute must issue a solution to every pensioner. Otherwise, this legislation is actually without law. The law to give up denial is not the right to retire, but the right to relations with the state, regulated relations with the state. The peace system not only in this segment pensions according to special regulations, but even devastated. Only 12% of citizens retire full-time. Only 12%. It's hard for any country to endure. One of the system solutions in general in the pension system would be to encourage staying in a working relationship with the right to full pension. He's got a solution. The SDP offered such a solution, which is that those who retire full-time to make that pension 70% of their average wage during the working life. Because what employers do, and unions fail to constantly devastate the pension system. The employers, when they have a change of workers at the end of the week, then they give him some sort of severance and he accepts it and retires. He accepts because he gets suddenly some amount that is significant to him and it may not be bad for him, but it's bad for the overall pension system, because these people then stay in retirement for a long time, they burden the pension system, and employers don't cost anything. So it's one irresponsible employer behavior, so they're looking at their own interests. But the state must protect the interest of the community, the interest of the whole. Mirovina is constantly dropping, when HDZ won power in 2003, then signed an agreement with the Croatian Pensions Party saying that the average pension will increase to 50% of the average salary. When they took over that average pension was 44% of the average salary, today it is 39%. 39 or 40, come on 40%. So it's not that the agreement that's been made public and the pensioners caught themselves at the time of the vote is not respected, but it's directly played. Their pensions have been reduced, the average pension has been reduced from 44% to 40% during the HDZ administration. The peace system as it exists with three pillars, the first pillar of generation solidarity invented by Bizmark, and it works and can work if it is a favourable relationship between the number of employees and the number of pensioners. In the former state, the pension fund was not a federal pension fund, they were republican and they were very rich. Companies, banks from these funds borrowed money. Why? Well, because the number of employees and the number of pensioners was four one or five one. Today, 1.3 is employed by one of the pensioners. So the government's overall activity, rising unemployment, the government's inability to reduce the unemployment rate directly affects pension levels. And finally, if you'll allow me, the pension fund under these conditions is completely pointless. The pensions cannot be alimony, they have to be alimony from the budget and it was actually good to think in such conditions that the pension fund should be abolished at all because pension funds otherwise exist to enlarge and enrich the money of those pensioners, and these have nothing to engross and what to enrich when they do not have enough to pay their pensions. So in short, dissatisfied with the overall pension policy, we will vote for this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53780	We have a few corrections. First Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53781	Thank you, Mr. President. It is difficult to respond to all the provocations, not only to the untrueness but to the provocations that my colleague Stazic has repeatedly referred to, but we will correct several incorrect allegations. First, due to possible illegalities in HAC or HEP. My friend, this has nothing to do with budgets. It does not fill the budget from these budgets, so these are separate budget totals and have nothing to do with the state budget and because of the lack of any money in them, pensions are not reduced, that is not true. The peace has been reduced due to the economic crisis that has affected the entire economy alongside the Republic of Croatia. Of course you know that because of course you're spreading lies. Second, as far as the SDP proposal is concerned, you've had the opportunity to implement such a pension system, and you haven't done anything about it. And thirdly, of course, we respect the Declaration of Antifascism in the Republic of Croatia, and it would be good for everyone in Croatia to respect the Declaration of Conviction of Totalitarian regimes such as Fascism, Nazism and Communism brought by the Council of Europe whose signatories we are. That would be very good, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53782	Correction, Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53783	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In his presentation, Coli Stazic also said that it was unfair for NOB participants to reduce their pension rights as I find incorrect. Because it's about soldiers who committed terrible crimes during and after World War II, none of whom are sanctioned, not the individualised guilt and responsibility for it, and while so practically many of them are receiving a 65-year reward for the crimes they have committed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53784	Correction, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53785	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct several incorrect allegations of Stazic where he claimed that they did not live in Croatia, that they did not pay pensions in Croatia and that they did not finally give anything to Croatia. They gave their lives, they gave parts of the body, they gave freedom to Croatia. That's what they gave. It is enough to achieve both citizenship and the same rights as the Croatian defenders did. And the privileges you keep mentioning along with the press, as well as the privileged pensions, surely there are, there are, yes, on this list. But please excuse those who have allowed you to sit in this Croatian House, except those who have allowed everyone to live freely and independently in the country of Croatia from the privilege. For surely these men without feet do not enjoy their privileges without their hands, and especially those whom they are not present, especially those who have died. If it's a privilege, you had it, you didn't take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53786	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53787	Thank you very much. Col. Stazic said one inaccuracy, which is the law of law because pensions under special regulations do not have an orderly relationship with the state, about 99.9% said there. I believe that fellow Stazic should know that these pensions under special regulations are governed by 13 regulations that rely on the Pension Insurance Act. So, first of all, that's incorrect. And the fact is, you know that fellow Stazic, you're full of ideas. I'm just surprised that you've been, you haven't answered that question yet, from 2000 to 2003, that you haven't been heard, none of your ideas when you could help so many pensioners, since you have perfect ideas. Why were you silent then, it's a terriblely large handicap for the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53788	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53789	Your Honor, I refer to Article 209. So it's common not to correct the quote under that, under this tile, but to distort what I said so that it goes to correct, but the completely opposite thing is really beyond measure. So when I was talking about the law of lawlessness then I said, I was talking about not issuing solutions to the pensioners, not paying pensions under special regulations without a legal basis. So it is a matter of basic intelligence to understand what is said if spoken in a clear and Croatian language. Correcting something that is not said falls under the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, so I ask you, in that sense, to introduce a little order into the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53790	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53791	Article 209, so my colleague Stazic quickly forgets, forgets, and apparently has forgotten what he said when he spoke here so that I listened well and wrote down what he was saying, and let him look at his stenogram later. Secondly, he misused the breach of the Rules of Procedure because he's replicated with me now, and not in principle answering why he said this is a law of law, because no pensions are arranged, no relationship with the state has no pensions, and they have 13 regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53792	So, you think there are laws based on which... Otherwise, I don't know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53793	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is the first time I've spoken on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retirement and on a very sensitive subject, on retirement issues. I'm sure there would be no dispute here if today's debate was to reduce the pensions of government members and parliamentary deputies. So, I'm sure everyone here would unanimously raise their hand, but at this point, the government is forcing us to raise our hand to reduce pensions to those to whom this government has previously been given certain rights. It hasn't been two years we've been giving defenses, academics a little before. It hasn't been two years we've modified the retirement laws of police officers and tenants. So, we're alleviating the criteria. According to these criteria, people have retired. They shall be calculated on the basis of the rules and on the basis of the payment of contributions over the years each according to their own rules. And now, look at a miracle and I'm really confused because to this day I thought, I didn't really know until today that we live in Sherwood Forest where a government like Robin Hood took it as a right to separate fat geese from less fatty geese. 'Cause I'm asking you what the pension criteria are for three and a half thousand. Where was he sucked from? Whether retirement families with three and a half thousand are rich. Yes, it is if it has three apartments. Some do. If there's any soil, if there's anything out of health, it's okay. He can live normally. But what if they have seven diagnosiss together and where they have to go twice a week to see a doctor. No additional health insurance will save them from failure. And you know, there are some claims here that are very questionable and if one of these 90,000 damaged it's not a small number. It will be 90,000 damaged demands an assessment of the constitutionality I think the Constitutional Court will have to have a fat picture over its decision. Because look, here two constitutional principles are stated in an explanation. It says, any restriction on freedom or rights must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case. I've already said it's not the same to be in a family and live at 3 and a half thousand kunas if you're healthy and if you have an additional source of income or if you're in that family with 7 diagnosis, and it's called, the promoter calls for the restriction to be treated in each case. There's no social censorship here, there's no social trial. And the second principle called upon by the Proposer, everyone is obliged to participate in public spending settlement in accordance with their economic opportunities. First, it's hard to talk about the economic opportunities of the pensioners. Second, what public costs will pensioners settle for you? It's not a public cost settlement, and since it's still a matter of reason, it's not about savings. There's no money. You can't save up when there's no money. It's about cutting costs. It is about taking something that is based on positive legal regulations. And how come the need to take money for general needs creates injustices in the pension system? Because they're not all gonna take 10% of those over three and a half thousand kunas. He who has 3550 will only be taken 50 kuna. Right? So he'll be taken 1 and a half percent? And who gives the right to suggest that regardless of what someone did, what profession and what profession he had and what job he was doing, now the middle of all his pensions were ironing together at three and a half thousand kunas. Because everyone who today has 3550 to 3950 will all fall to 3 and a half thousand kuna. The one with four will fall to 3600. Because that's the suggestion. There's no dilemma. It's one ironing in the middle, and now it doesn't matter if someone was a good cop, a bad cop, whether someone was doing better or worse. In fact, the better you did and the better your salary, the more I'm punishing you. I think this is the source of new injustices. The legislator, or legislator, has the right and can adequately redistribute the burden. So, the institute with which it seems is income tax and we can't change pears and apples. Some times we're gonna take these pensioners, so we're gonna take health care contributions because they have too much and we're gonna get them a cut, so we're gonna give them either 2 and 4%. Yeah? Now we're going to take 10%. Guys, it's not guinea pigs. They're people. These are people who have the right to their dignity. These are ultimately Croatian defenders and I am very interested in how tomorrow's ruling majority will raise their hands to reduce Croatian defenders' pensions of 10%. If we're going to review certain structures, let's review, let's say we can't, let's look for models. But come with a proposal to cut, take it. Now I understand, dear colleagues and colleagues, which means cutting pensions. This is fucking, this is taking. This isn't cut down because we can't, because we all have to tighten the belt, because we have to carry each and every one of us a little weight. That's not the proposal. He would agree right away here, and I believe that if all of you were to discuss today a 10% reduction in the pensions of parliamentarians and members of the government. Why? Because these pension rights are not covered by contributions payments over the years. They're not even defensively covered, so we understand each other. But for the defenders here, they've all single-handedly raised their hands, and I respect that. I respect that. At this point, I can't raise my hand for this bill as much as he can, no matter how justified his proposal is. Because simply instead of helping him help, he'll do, he'll demote future police officers to do quality work. In Hera's fight against corruption. He's going to make the country's weak defence even weaker because he's losing motive. Yeah, I'll retire early, but then I'll starve to death. He'll say listen, so it's not worth being an academic anymore. Well, we didn't give the academics a retirement allowance to take them now. But they're not gonna get a pension. They will be paid what they have earned by the basis of the payments of contributions during the year, but will therefore be taken away from them a part of the add-on of 10% of the total income. Gentlemen, if our actuarial pension calculations are wrong, let's talk about it. Let's see how to make the pension system better, better quality, more covered, and that can only be done with a quality employment policy. I can't believe we don't have a job. Our fields are unworked, our summer is failing, our grain is disappearing, I can't believe we can't come up with jobs in this country. I can't believe we can't design public works, we've got thousands of miles of shore to clean up, clean up, fix up, fix up, etc. No, I don't. If it's not a public tender, if it's not a big business, if it's not very paid, we're not interested in these jobs. Gentlemen, we need to start social entrepreneurship, and then we won't be dealing with this how to cut it. We have to deal with the gray economy, and there is, and the bigger the crisis, the more the government tolerates it to have social peace. We can avoid concrete actions as much as we want, but sooner or later the bills come to the bill, and we live in the billing time. So, with full responsibility at this point, no matter what everyone calls them, I defend the rights and our defenders, I defend the rights and our officers, and our academics and our anti-fascists whose rights are based in 95% of their work, so this encroachs on their rights based on contributions over the years, yes, yes. You can wave your head off if you don't. Yeah, they've now had 5% privilege, 5% of the rest has already been cut. You know. So for those categories, I can't raise my hand for a law like this. Of course, there are other measures in the announcement, which I would recommend to stop before and think carefully about what is going on, and how much and how it will be valued, to think about how much and how one fact will be evaluated, the basic fact of the pension system that the rights must be covered by the payment of contributions and that this must be a fundamental copy of the right. That the general regulation that puts us all at the same level is in front of all these special laws, special laws and special rights. We can talk as much as we want, but as long as we have privileged pensions, we'll be in the center, we Assembly representatives here will be in the center, or in the interest of all our citizens, watching whether we sit or not, whether we are justified or unjustly absent from this assembly. Therefore, as long as we have such privileged pensions, our colleagues, of course, who are now retired by then will be candidates for the reserve players in the party cups who will patiently wait for their minute to come to this Croatian Parliament and then earn a certain benefit. Why didn't the promoter first abolish those double-privileged pensions, which are still being paid today? Double-privileged pensions are those of the first members of this Parliament who had full Germany and received a full Croatian pension based on four years in this House. That's what my colleague Lesar was already talking about, and he was asking a representative question. Why don't you handle it? They, according to all the regulations of this world, have the right to a reasonable pension because they worked in Croatia for only two or four years, and have received their full pension for 30 years, either in Germany or in Canada. Why don't we work this out? It's an injustice that stings in the eyes. Why don't we go solve these great injustices that bother everyone? Why don't we first solve the MPs and members of the government, and then we go one step at a time with a sense of measure. So, unfortunately, I can't raise my hand by estimating the good need and the intention of saving and having a hard time, but I can't raise my hand for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53794	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53795	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Hrelja has made several incorrect allegations, and one of those two is actually that our summers are unaccounted for, and we can't come up with public works. It is incorrect, the summer is collected, from the middle to which I come it is collected many times, and in many parts, and in addition to that they speak, and the public works of these days are ongoing and well designed. And in addition to the harvested summers, they say that wheat is already being prepared for this year 170 million liters of milk increased production compared to 2003, and please say nice and you say we defend the rights of Croatian defenders, police officers and all others. And we forbid them to get their pensions on a regular basis both in time and in all other responsibilities. And you seem to have forgotten that time of your colleague that there was no restitution of the pensioner's debt and so he paid back that debt to the pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53796	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. I would like to inform you that today we will be working without a break, without a break of the usual one, until about 4:00 p.m., because tonight at the Croatian National Theatre is the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the 1st democratically elected Multiparty Assembly and is also the celebration of the Day of the Croatian Assembly. I call on all MPs and MPs to participate in the HNK tonight at 8:00, so there will be time to prepare for that, so from 16 to 20 o'clock. Here, I've been waiting for as many MPs and representatives to gather, so I'm asking the clubs to notify their members and warn that here we should participate, which is why we're going to cut some hours off today. Thank you. It's up to IDS Club and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53797	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Representatives, State Secretary. IDS will, like some clubs before me, support this bill, I mean the SDP club, etc. However, what I am personally very proud of, when we talk about the Law on those pensions, which was achieved according to special regulations, that I was out there in '99. the year managed to fight to ensure that the miners of the Istrian coal mine Tuvalac, more specifically those who were 15 years old at the time, were more likely to leave early retirement. It is clear that this would not be possible without the understanding of then Prime Minister Mateshu, which I thank him for, because if it hadn't happened, many miners would have found themselves on the street, without being able to secure themselves at that time or today I dare say any job. What I regret is that this coal was then submerged, but it's probably the natural consequence of unexploiting that area of the Raška Basket, as I also wish that coal had built the Plomin 1 thermopower plant first on coal. But it doesn't matter now. So, pensions go down, and the problem as Mr. Hrelja used to say, the entire pension system is "banal" but it is obviously in Croatia unsecured. We today have about a million and 180 thousand pensioners in Croatia, and we have only a million 498 thousand insurance companies. This ratio today is about 1 to 1.29 and clearly this ratio is unsustainable. The ratio in Istria between insurance and pensioners is 1:2, in Croatia 1:1,29. 20 years ago the ratio was 1:3, or at that time there were about 600,000 pensioners, over 2 million workers or to be precise in 1988 in Croatia there were 2 million 32 000 and 16 employees, and the pensioner was 585 thousand 170, which was the ratio of 1:3.47. When I mentioned that ratio, when I mentioned that "trouble" 90, I just noticed that the average pension rate in the average salary in the Republic of Croatia is 1990. 75.3%, and today in a democratically advanced European independent Croatia, this ratio is 41%. I'm going to get clear to privileged pensions, but before that, 20% of the pensions go, 15% stays in the first pillar, 5% goes to that second pillar, and that capital that's collected in that second column obviously hasn't produced any result. The 3rd pillar, which is voluntary savings, includes only 170 thousand people. In a privileged pension in the Republic of Croatia, 16% of pensioners, although I agree the same, I do not see that all those who are privileged, we need 34 billion and 61 million kuna for pensions, however, the total expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute because they need to pay the salaries, for them 3,000 and 100 that work there in 35 billion and 210 million kuna, which will say that at the annual level is missing, means in these contributions 15 billion kuna. For preferential pensions, 181,000 224 people leave 7.2 billion kuna. So with the President of the State, along with the ministers, with the former prime ministers, the judges of the Constitutional Court who all have over 40 years of employment, MPs, members of the Constitutional Court in that category are 505 persons, the average salary or pension is 9321 kuna, without this reduction. Croatian defenders saw 67 thousand 714 in January, in March 68 thousand 630 defenders, of which 21 thousand 674 people received an average of 7 thousand kuna and a pension of less than 2000 kuna in the defenders there were 1954 persons. Now the internship. With ministers, at the Constitutional Court judges, at the main state auditor tomorrow, etc., it is close to 40 years old, the President of the State Mr Mesic mentioned him before, the brother has 50 years of training, our President, Mr Bebic, is over 40 years old and so on. The average pension in Croatia comes from a 29-year-old worker. The average counsel's internship is 18 years, and the beneficiary of the preferential pension of the Croatian Council of Defense is 8 years and five months. I said there's something about our miners over 15 years old, about 20 years old. The average ordinary pension is 2162 kuna, defender 5611 kuna, it is clear that I advocate that in some but should be in all rights, but because of the finances and politics it will not work, equally the NOB fighters and the Homeland War, but which is also interesting on the 3rd side of this argument, the NOB fighters are leading up to 6. 4. 41 to 15. 5. 45. I don't know why not from 22. Six. 41st, that 6th. The 4th is Germany's attack on Yugoslavia, so 22. Six. 41st when the uprising was raised, but the Croatian Army is being led here since 17. 4. I put it 41 to 15. 5. 45th, since this is about Ustashas and the Domobrans, there is no mention of the disgraceful 10th. 4. I guess the legislators were ashamed of him, but 15 were mentioned. 5. 45th as if it were normal to fight in Germany's capitulation. But now let's let it go, what I stand for but I know it won't go that easy, equal to NOB fighters and defenders. It is also clear that when someone is, it is almost impossible to abolish this right almost impossible, it is impossible to end it for those who have earned it, but the reforms will go on and on and on and on about our pensions, and I suggest that an internship be valued in parliament. One term of office is 45%, 2 55, 3 65, 4 75, 5 85% of that salary with whoever has three mandates, I don't know 4, 12, 15 years to retire immediately. As I also think tomorrow, if the president remains without a mandate, he should not be pushed to the Employment Service, of course he can go back to college. The average is about 65 years, those with three, four mandates. True, the pension system is whether or not to be but it is clear that it stems from an economic power of Croatia, or some country. If it hadn't been for so many jobs, it would have been better if it hadn't been for so many investments in Croatia it would have been better if it had been done more, if less in the public sector it had been better if it had been a little job in the public sector, it would have been better if there had been more tax pay, if there had been less work in the fusing, to re-examine the subsidies as well, and that would have been a better turn, if there had been less monitoring of some activity in Bosnia, it would have been better, it would have been better, it would have been interesting for this daily Marić, who today in the media, who most eloquently talks about politics at one time would have been good, etc. It is not normal for you to have nearly 100,000 executives in the state administration sector, it is not normal for you to have only one or two state secretary, no general, no minister, no director of the public system, no ambassador, no advisor, no president of the Republic, one judge in the Constitutional Court, and that's that. To end, what hurts clearly is the poverty line in Croatia. A thousand 845 kuna, an average pension of 2 thousand 162 kuna, a total of 557 thousand 166 people in Croatia receive a pension below 2 thousand kuna or half pensioners receive a pension of up to 2 thousand kuna. The truth is, no one's retired from that number. It's under 20 years of their job experience. However, the problem of pensions will be solved with the economy and without deception 30 days ago, the president spoke of a hint of recovery because industrial production increased by 0.3% for the first three months of last year compared to the same period last year to fall by 6.6% in April 2009 as compared to April 2009, which simply analises us, and we are in even bigger problems compared to last year. And that's why the battle of all battles must be fought here in the economy, that's where it all starts, that's where it all ends, so it depends on what pensions will be. And as things stand, if you believe in the word of the Prime Minister's advisors, we could lose another 50,000 jobs, perhaps 40,000 of which are insurance. And that's true. One word will take at least three years to change something in this country for the better, but this better clearly must follow certain laws. That's all I'm saying, and we're gonna support this bill. I also listen today when I came to the Parliament with a single show on Croatian Radio, I agree that the number of representatives should be reduced. There until 2000 we had 120 mandates. I agree absolutely agree with you always loudly for the direct election of MPs. But I also claim that this Parliament is the most transparent institution in this country. On the other hand, yesterday I had some people from the International Amnesty, fighting for certain marketing rights of commercial television, newspapers, etc. He mentions that there are 3,000 800 people working on HRT. That there are 2,000 more than they should be, not to mention that 150 receive more benefits than the prime minister, as hundreds of people in the agencies of the Republic of Croatia receive more pay than the prime minister, that we do not talk about severances of 300, 400, 500 thousand kuna, etc. So absolute savings, cut the president's powers, but to cut the office, absolutely. The parliament must have its place, let the number be reduced, etc. But all in all, we also make sure we don't dig into this institution. As far as the law itself is concerned, perhaps Mr. Hrelja is right, perhaps he is constitutionally questioned. We support him. Right, some will lose 10%, some will lose as you said 1%, but they will lose everyone in this country much more through health reform, through higher prices, I don't know municipal services, tax returns are lifted, subsidies are being questioned, jobs are being lost, and we will see how it will be in years ahead of us. But as for some public works, God forbid we go back to that because we would be back in the 50s. So everything just needs to be reconsidered. Not to mention, this Croatia has no idea how many members of the government too, too many vice-presidents, too many ministers, perhaps too many generals, etc. And all of that will come together one day. All in all, we'll be like some clubs, SDPs, etc. to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53798	Thank you. The HSS club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53799	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Pension Insurance Fund, colleagues and colleagues. In the Republic of Croatia, pension insurance is based on generation solidarity. However, specific legal regulations for certain groups are more favourable. This applies to the President of the Republic of Croatia to the Judges of the Constitutional Court, members of the Government, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as well as active military personnel, police officers, workers in demining affairs, as well as Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. It is also clear to members of the Croatian Defence Council and their families, former political prisoners and persons entitled under more favourable conditions according to previous rules on pension insurance. The funds shall be financed from the contribution of insurance undertakings from the State budget to those set out under specific rules and for which there is no coverage in the contributions. The pensioner is about $180,000, and about 35 billion is scheduled for financing in 2010. The consequences of the global financial crisis, they did not bypass Croatia and this reflected the state budget whose revenues are less than the need to finance all public commitments. With a view to further stabilising and promoting economic growth, the government has adopted an economic recovery programme aimed at achieving the long-term sustainability of the social security system, and the programme provides for the revision of the pension systems acquired under special conditions and their reduction, as well as the preparation of the gradual abolition of the specific rights of certain such privileged categories. The reduction of pensions under specific rules is one of the first measures. We know that recovery requires making moves that require determination and courage, as it is expected to cause dissatisfaction in order to reduce certain rights. In order to increase income, the laws taxed pensions, salaries of employees, income from independent activities and some other revenues. These regulations will cease to apply by the end of 2010. Given the state budget revenue situation, it is evident that there is a need to look for room for savings, and this also applies to pension insurance. So today we are talking about a legislative proposal relating to the pension of some groups of citizens who have achieved this right in a special way, for them more favourable regulations. Depending on the amount of pension, it is proposed to reduce these pensions and on the basis of the amount of pension before the suspension due to an additional contribution to health insurance, taxes, taxes and other deductions. The justification for such a measure shall also be interpreted as constitutional provisions under which the limitation of the right must be a proportionate need for a restriction in each case and each shall be obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with its economic opportunities. The reason for accessing these pensions is the need to save public funds, and in this way anyone participating in their use would contribute to savings in line with their opportunities. This also reduces the spending of state budget funds, since these pensions are partly or entirely financed by the Republic of Croatia. According to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, about 180 thousand persons are making pensions according to special regulations. According to this proposal, the pension laws of all users would be reduced by 10%, thus reducing pensions of more than 3500 kuna, but in a way that individual pensions should not be less than that amount after the reduction. Therefore, due to the material, social security of the beneficiaries of the reduced pensions of up to 3500 kuna per month, the pensions of Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War and wartime wartime people with damage to the body of 100%, and the pensions of employees in Istrian coal mines and workers of professionally exposed asbestos. The proposed reduction would cover around 90,000 beneficiaries of such pensions, and the estimated savings from the state budget for the purpose of financing pensions amounting to around 250 million kuna in this year, with that amount being 610 million in 2011 and in 2012. 620 million kuna. This legislative proposal focuses on those groups of citizens who, on the basis of their status, have gained a pension under more favourable conditions of that group of citizens, this is what they deserve, and if some of them question that pension. However, as the Croatian pension system is based on intergenerational solidarity, this legislative proposal also requires solidarity with other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is necessary for us all to contribute to the necessary stabilisation. All these groups of citizens were given pensions because they each contributed in their own way to the improvement of Croatia and its citizens, whether it was defence, justice or the development of science or art. I believe that even now that we are in a situation that is not optimal for these groups of citizens as well as family members who are using this kind of pension, they are aware that the state, in order to overcome such a situation, needs their contribution in terms of the proposed reduction. If we are solid and without the figurines in our pocket, we are complicated to work on the assumption of getting out of a crisis that is shaking the whole world, I believe that we will find solutions and that we will no longer need to discuss reducing someone's pensions but to improve the conditions for everyone, but we know that this will not happen overnight. The restrictions we take are called unpopular measures, but restrictions are still a form of solidarity in society. Solidarity that is necessary in times like this, times of crisis and difficulty. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53800	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53801	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here at the beginning to say that when powerpoint reforms are in place in Croatia, they are normally not ideal. Why do I say powerpoint reforms? When you get into a situation where there is no way out, when you're forced to go to the wall trying to write something, some presentation, put some thesis, ideas, reform on the powerpoint and present it to the Croatian public and say that these are the solutions that we will apply, which will take Croatia out of the crisis. Normally there's a solution that's not good, that's not fair and fair and normally there's a lot of unhappy people. There are two kinds of powerpoint reforms. It is one that is inconclusive, and this is what we have seen now in action the problem of resolving indifference where the first reform that has been announced as key in bringing Croatia out of the economic crisis has fallen. By 1.6, the state and its public companies had failed to settle their debts. But then we must move forward and give another reform, a reform that is now touching the rights of certain pension-related laws. And word is, we'll save in 2010. 250 million, 2011 610, 2012 620, so somewhere around a billion and about 500 million kuna in three years. And okay, a man would say these are pensions earned by certain rights, you need to find room in this difficult situation to save some kuna. But then a key question arises, and who caused this problem? Who was the one who gave out pensions privileged sometimes in many cases undeserved all these six years while HDZ was in power. Who distributed the most of these pensions to secure his electoral body. Who caused the problem? And then maybe even a little less-sponsored follower of politics will type in and look at who was the minister of Croatian defenders, who in some way told them to get into the system, you'll get good pensions, we won't control too much, and many people who don't deserve to get into the system have entered and received undeserved pensions. It was current Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, who today is a powerpoint reformer of these pension rights trying to return and return the problem to the beginning. From 2003 to 2010, one would have thought that it was the pensions of the right acquired in the last 50, 60 years that the number of these pensioners would be reduced. Unfortunately, nature is like that. People can't live indefinitely. You'd think a man would fall to the number of pensioners who've exercised their right, because there's a lot of those who are from World War II, etc. But unfortunately, between 2003 and 2010, the number of these pensioners increased. For what? Because someone has been propagating how easy good money can be lived, and perhaps even in some cases undeserved. Prime Minister Kosor was in charge of this policy and now, normally, people are bitter when they see their pensions coming off by 10%, and someone told them they'll never touch you. Of course, when the state comes to this situation, you can't sell fog to people forever. It came to the wall and now we have to be that way, sort things out so that the cost is reduced and brought into some real frames. But still unfair. What's wrong with that? There's a line on 3,000 kuna. Is a large pension of 3600 kuna for one defender who was five years old in the war, who has 30 years of employment or 35 years of employment and is now stripped of 350 kuna. Is that fair? Is that fair? Is it just when you take the comparison that there was a Lozancic in Bosnia and Herzegovina who was receiving a pension under the same system because there was no control within the same ministry led by Prime Minister Kosor, who receives 8.9,000 kuna. For many years, he damaged the state for 6,000 kn, and received more parliamentary salary in Bosnia. Well, of course, people are bitter, and they're not happy when they're taken from them by three and a half thousand kunas, and they deserve, some of them have given their health, left their best years to take off 350 kunas. And, of course, I can't be satisfied and I can't support such changes and I give them support in that. One injustice must not be replaced by another injustice. Gentlemen, first, put order into what you've been knowingly pumping for years, what you've shared, what you've unjustly divided, made a huge burden on the budget in order to in some way honor yourself and in some way increase your electoral body, and now you're taking people who really deserve those pensions. As far as parliamentary pensions are concerned, that's what they're called, and as far as any official is concerned, I'd say one thing. I agree that it should be reduced absolutely and it is in the eyes of the Croatian citizen and there is no one there who could be against it. But again, there is a linear reduction of 10% rather than changing the principle of obtaining parliamentary pensions. The parliamentary pensions of MPs, officials should be acquired as are acquired by Croatian citizens with full employment and then eventually to obtain some benefit not in this proportion when they retire for the term of office that man has performed in office. Normally, when a person is in charge, if he does business in the interests of citizens, he must be resented by many structures in the economy, etc. And that time has to be kind of honored. But not in a way that we have this reckoning again where we're finally going to get an average of the last salary, and now we're going to cut that average by 10%, and then you're going to retire automatically. It must be the same principle that Croatian citizens are going to retire and MPs are leaving at least as far as the job experience is concerned. And again I say because of the powerpoint reform where you have to write something quickly and try to implement it in practice is that an unfair system is replaced once again by me by a bad way of calculating. But in order not to be misunderstood, I absolutely agree that parliamentary, debt pensions must be less and must be in greater co-ordination with our citizens. Generally someone has mentioned 34 billion kuna budget costs is a great burden, but this burden will not be solved by gentlemen in any way other than to increase the number of employees. The number of employees in the last year has dropped by 100,000. A million and 400,000 employees per million and nearly 200000 pensioners. It's just unsustainable. And that is why policy must not be put in place in the way that in the next year or a year or a half, we will save as many or as many millions of kunas in the budget, but as we will employ 100, 200 or 300,000 of these 320 000 unemployed to ensure that the budget for the Generation Solidarity Fund is invested, so that pensions can generally be increased. There's nothing to talk about, there's something about it in the powerpoint reforms of Jadranka Kosor. But unfortunately, that's the part that this government and Jadranka Kosor can't implement. And that's why I'd say the problem is when you ride a horse and you can't ride. Then you have to get a lot of tumbling and eventually you fall off that horse most of the time. The sooner this government leaves power, the sooner some concrete reforms will be implemented in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53802	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53803	Mr. Vice President, in a series of inaccuracies, I will correct the most important ones, which is that the government of Jadranka Kosor or the HDZ government printed defenders to buy the electoral body. That's absolutely incorrect. Achieving legal and legal assumptions have created conditions for Croatian defenders to suffer from PTSD requirements for obtaining a pension. In a few years, this number of defenders were created who were really ill and the symptoms of the disease were only visible after the time, and it couldn't be avoided and so you have to understand it. And another thing, don't demagoguely perform because you haven't even read the law that predicts that no one below 3,000 and 500 kuna will be reduced, nor can it be reduced below 3 and a half thousand kuna. So you said that the one who has 3,000 and 600 kunas will be reduced by 350 kuna. That's not true. He can only be reduced by 100 kuna and nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53804	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Maras incorrectly states that HDZ, especially through defenders, was buying the electoral body. Well, it is true that the defenders at the time, i.e. the SDP at the time of the creation of the Croatian state, were on the opposite side of the defenders, which is why the defenders supported the party that created this state together. And you made a mistake, gentlemen, for sending similar journalists to diplomacy, so that in 2003, no one could praise you here, which they are now doing in the hope that you will one day send them back to diplomacy, because as soon as you're touched by similar journalists, they hit everyone right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53806	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I was thinking about how to start this debate today, perhaps by saying that in March of this year, the average retirement in Croatia was 2 thousand 377 kuna or a disabled thousand 932, and the family's thousand 860, which would give an average pension of 2 thousand 162 kuna. Or perhaps by data that 79.5% of pensioners in Croatia receive a pension of less than 3,000 kuna, so 80% of pensioners in Croatia receive a pension of less than 3,000 kuna. Or perhaps by letter from Karlovac, Mr. Franjo Mujic, who retired at 41 years of age and was sentenced by 9% of pension cuts because he went to early retirement under our laws, what he did 41 years in Croatia was early retirement. But this data is of no importance to anyone because we need to invent themes and to God’s radical moves to save the pension system. In 2005, as a representative of this House, I submitted a bill under which privileged pensions would be made, and this will highlight privileged pensions for government members and MPs to be abolished. Of course that never came on the agenda, of course mutually supported by both the left and right of this hall, with a lot of ridicule, provocation and laughter. At that time, 4 billion and 100 million kunas were spent on preferential pensions annually. Today goes 7 billion and 200. In four years, it will take 11 billion kuna for preferential pensions in Croatia. So now you can accept the model of one-time pension cuts, such as this, but not for the first time, but for the second time, and in this term and third time counting since 2001 and refuse any debate on serious debate and change of pension systems acquired under favourable conditions. No one-time cuts will solve the problem, but they will bring new injustices amongst the people who use these pensions. For example, those who have retired from the Ministry of the Interior on certain jobs appear, so they are classified in the category of preferential pensions, not on a regular basis, although they have had the conditions, and after this reduction they will have a lower pension than that they were given a regular pension. Ten of them have come forward these days. What about those who went to the second pillar and didn't have to, so now they get a pension solution from the second pillar of 2 kuna and 90 limes? Two kunas and 90 limes. Article 3 of Mr. Government, it states that the pension is reduced by 10% but the amount it would have under the law, or the pension found. What about those who are already in this pension? Does the current pension value decrease by 10% or the amount you would have right to under the law? That's a big difference. Does this only apply to future pensioners or those already in these categories? To both the present and the future, and the present will be... The current pension, or the one you'd legally be entitled to when they went? [[You don't understand.]] Read again paragraph 1 of Article 3 and see how everything can be interpreted. You did not clearly specify which amount of pension will be reduced by 10% to those already retired. And why invent hot water? Why don't you tell the public that part of these pensions is taken as the basis for the last paid salary, and workers and workers for the whole working life. Well, you could only tell the MPs and members of the government that they don't get the basics of their last salary but the entire working life, as well as all the people in this country. These are privileged pensions for two reasons. Some of them had the privilege of being able to retire earlier, past the general pension rules, others making a higher pension than they would under regular pension regulations, but there are also those who have achieved both benefits, both early pensions and a higher pension. The peace system rests only on one principle, retirement is what is calculated and obtained on the basis of insurance and paid contributions. All that is beyond that is the addition of the state to different categories of citizens because of socially acceptable positions, reasons or justifications. And as long as these 13 priority categories will not be excluded from the pension system, the Croatian pension system will not be stabilised. Each of these 180 thousand users also has a certain part of the years of insurance training, the payment of pensions on this basis and the state gives war benefits, mining allowances, maternal allowances or any other allowance if it considers that a particular category should have more income than it would under general pension rights. We have peace insurance, it's called insurance, it gives people more rights than the general pension rules. And now you can imagine a brilliant solution, we're going to decrease 10% once. In six months, the difference in these pensions compared to ordinary mortals will again be greater and that such justice would be done by this one-time reduction should work every half year because you do not want to fix the system. The system is initially unfair, the system at first generates inequality of citizens, the system steals the pension insurance fund from the beginning, and that's the whole problem. You should have the courage and guts to say all categories of privileged pensions will go to the audit, not to audit individual users, but to the system we have. To amend all laws and only then can we talk about how much money the state in the budget gives to make pensions pay. The difference between the total pension contributions of 22 billion, 23, paid 34 60% is due to these preferential pensions, not old, disabled or family benefits. They lie that the pension system is unsustainable because of regular pensions. The Croatian pension system is facing bankruptcy because of these categories and it must not be in the regular pension system. And I'll finish the next one. 11 billion in three years it will take you to do this without seeing this or to charge for what is in front of me, the Croatian State would get three times as much money as it would be an effect of this Law. Just find these two on this BOLO. More income Shuker gets a pension fund than the effects of this Act. This can mathematically prove to you, it can be calculated but instead of looking for these, we are turning to the demagogue laws of God in the crisis and reducing these pensions. Eye smoothing, six months from now, the inequality ratios are going to be the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53808	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53809	My colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I should start from this finding the last one said by my colleague Lesar, is not a Croatian pension system ahead of the collapse, nor should it be before the collapse, since the total expenditure on pensions in Croatia is around 10% of GDP, which is still about 2.5% lower than in the Member States of the European Union. Therefore, pension spending, despite the catastrophic ratio of employees and pensioners, is not yet such that we can talk about the financial unsustainability of this system in the longer run, especially if in Croatia what has not been done for 7 years, which is that the system is not being damaged but being systematically improved and that the reforms that have started, pension reforms consistent with scientific and professionally based implementation, as they have not been implemented in the years behind us. I will only remind you that a pension reform has been carried out in Croatia in 2000 and 2003, I would say perhaps the only major right of reform that has been achieved by a full national consensus. So it was a reform agreed on by both trade unions and employers and opposition and government. Because it was based on very carefully planned parameters, evaluations and calculations on how to maintain and maintain the sustainability of the pension system in Croatia. I remind you that in that period, pensions were actually increased by 33%, so by 1/3 and nominally 48% over a period of 4 years. If the reform changes were continued in 99 years, then I am not saying this in any way to take credit for myself or for a party or coalition that was in power at the time, because the reform was designed and started and it was the only project that had a lifetime longer than the duration of one term, from one government and from one party. If that kept going, things would be a lot better today than they look when it comes to this kind of thing, I'd say incoherent, unmoving and desperate moves like the one proposed by the law that we now have in front of us. In fact, things need to be seen in every context. Which is the goal of cutting these defense pensions. I'm deliberately saying defense pensions because this is all another fog. You know, of the 180 thousand privileged, under quotes, or according to special pension regulations, MPs make up, 500 make up the 360th part so that the creation of the impression that as we cut MPs, so we can support it and accept it only the silk and fog to say that the only category and group to which it is attacked are Croatian defenders, better said the disabled of the Homeland War because they are represented in this group of pensions that will be cut. Why does that seem? It seems that the government in its measures, among which some are quite certain and good, has failed to ensure the most important things that the Government would say by definition, I would have to ensure for my citizens to live better, to live better, and to be able to live with perspective, to view with optimism in the future as something, as a time in which they will live better than they have lived so far. On the contrary, the Government ensures with its measures the following. Four and a half billion kunas to the citizens of this country in 2010 and about 3 billion kuna according to our estimates less in 2011. It is a minus that the citizens of this country will be those pensioners, workers, farmers will have in their pocket, through increased VAT, through the elimination of tax relief, through the abolition of severances, Christmases, gifts for children, through I do not know all the other measures that are listed here and which are the only aim of reducing citizens' receipts and public spending, i.e. to patch up the budget gap. What's that gonna lead to? This may lead to a low-level stabilisation of finances. What the government has failed to do in its package of measures, bring a series of proactive measures to us to see if we now give up those 4.5 billion to what it's actually disowning, what it's doing, what it's going to contribute to. We haven't seen that proactive measure. That's the first one. So obviously, it's about ignorance, it's about the very random keying of individual measures, savings, restrictions, so whoever breaks it will be left without it. What can be done? It is possible to make much more relevant and social consideration go if you want to increase budget revenues, but by taxing what is taxed in all normal countries, rather than hitting on the receiving of the poorest and most vulnerable groups of the population we have in Croatia. In Croatia, income from capital is not taxed. Profit tax is about 20%, dividend tax and zero percent profit, interest tax, savings, bonds, etc. Zero percent in Croatia, income tax from municipal shares is now proposed 15% or something is said. We suggest that they become an integral part of the salary, so let's see if the municipal shares are allocated or not. Taxes on rent, taxes on capital gains, capital gains on the increase in value in the sale of stock bonds zero per cent for natural persons. Capital profit from selling companies zero percent. You can sell companies, remember that famous sale of Lura, the Lura Group and the billions of kunas that were achieved where no lip was in the state budget. Capital gain from changing land status, so all that talk about golf course etc. is actually going towards the fact that cheap agricultural land is being converted into construction land and that this results in enormous extra profits from making a very small and narrow circle of people. Vacation house, yachts, cars expensive nothing is taxed in Croatia. And what's the impact? He is hitting on Croatian defenders, the disabled of the Homeland War, who except for the 100% chosen group because the only reason that 80% of pensioners in Croatia live below the poverty line is because they have some pension that is more decent and that has allowed them to live a normal life. I was at a meeting of Croatian defenders who told the Croatian government. Please avoid any more hypocrisy, no more coming to us, no more silence for a minute, you give the children of the deceased defenders a guarantee of pensions, that these children may be educated, because it is not only a fee, it is not a privilege, but it is a compensation for people who are no longer able to work and who have earned no more by power, but have earned their pensions by suffering and serving their homeland. I'm asking you to reconsider why this group was hit? And secondly, by what criteria and how is it determined to be 3 and a half thousand kunas and why 10%, not 9, not 11, not 8 or 5%. The SDP will come out with its proposal, if you think this could be supported if we don't turn out to be against God cutting or cutting parliamentary pensions with a proposal to be progressive from that 3.5 thousand kuna you've taken arbitrarily, to go to taxation as these pensions are larger.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53810	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. First correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53811	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect assumption that this is an attack on Croatian disabled and killed defenders. Namely, that's incorrect and it's actually hypocritical of you, of you who are calling the government today and you've been able and we've experienced your mercy, we've experienced your honesty with 30%, not 10%. With 4.5 thousand sad that Croatian defenders, widows, disabled and children of the dead had to realise in administrative disputes and all of this had to be paid by the Croatian State with interest in the end. These are your good sides and manners that you have used for Croatian defenders and members of their families. And don't ever...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53812	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Djakic partially corrected this quote that counterpart Vidovic said. So it is incorrect that this law strikes the Croatian defenders and the disabled of the Homeland War, because it stands very clearly in this proposal so as not to involve disabled people from the Homeland War. But it certainly is good to remember that time from 2000 to 2003 when it is in your let's say in your dictionary colleague Maras Power Point reform and these 4.5 thousand defenders who have received a dispute at the Administrative Court, when they are cutting birth benefits. And not to speak well please when we talk about birth benefits without talking about paying back the pensioners' debt because it's good to remember who paid the pensioners back this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53814	Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53815	You asked your colleague Vidovic what else could be done to solve this problem. What the government didn't think of complemented your proposals. First, in Croatia it should be normal for employers to pay pension contributions on real salary rather than on minimum. But who in the Croatian government knows that employers cheat on workers and the state and the Peace Fund. Secondly, that the government is not tolerating or Minister Schucker has been intervened for three years by an employer who doesn't even pay pension insurance for his workers, not using the law to intervene after 60 days so that workers find out that they have been paid when they need to retire. Maybe this 8 billion debt, only this is the basis of a pension contribution, to be charged by the end of the year, would solve the problem. Thirdly, perhaps we should analyse who has the right to pension insurance on the burden of the state budget according to other regulations or pay pension insurance on half the basis of a worker, half of 2700, and then exercise the right to a minimum pension, for example as ester stars in Croatia. Finally, it might be good to review the existing legal solution for members of the government and MPs in the Assembly under which they are entitled to two pensions. There is one member of the government who has made a pension under Croatian law, but has had enough internships in another country and is also receiving a pension and receiving two pensions, two pensions. I know about a member of the government and a member of parliament. He is making a privileged pension in Croatia, but is also receiving a pension from the state in which he obtained a job internship from that title entitled "retirement". It does not exclude each other because we pretend to be silly, and the proposed authentic interpretation of 2004 has been rejected to prevent this and the provision is still in force in the current law. So someone from now on will receive two pensions when they decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53816	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53817	Of course, I agree and accept, I'm sure there would be a dozen other ways to save money in this country. The fact that there is currently 11.5 billion kuna unpaid in Croatia, therefore, is not a tax avasion, so what is unknown. No, this is known as $11.5 billion. And imagine, this measure will bring 600 million kuna into the budget. 600 million kunas will hit this against those who have too little anyway. The Minister of Finance in the country where this is happening would really have to think if it was time for him to tell people, let the job be done by someone who can ensure that the tax that we have in all normal civilized countries can be charged because otherwise the system is experiencing what we now have as a nakarada. And perhaps even in the context of this, these reminders of the past that people are saying, you know, it's been in these six, seven years in the pension system of such stupidity, of such great failures, of such giving that have generated new and new injustices that can't be corrected in 10 years. That story about paying back the debt, that ridiculous story. Debt returns, model found, 17 billion kunas recovered in two years in 2002 and 2003. So, more dead ends and talking nonsense usually costs, so we all pay the price of innocuousness that has been generated in this system for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53818	Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. So, first of all, this bill regulates the reduction of defence pensions, no matter how many we keep silent about it, the upcoming 60% pensions of defenders and members of their families will be reduced according to this bill, and that should be made clear. Yesterday we had a set of health reforms that went towards a reduction, part of the reduction of the rights of Croatian military disableds, and today we have this additional reduction. I am also sorry that here in the Croatian Parliament, knowing what has been said and not sat down for all these years, if not Mrs. Prime Minister who has well created the existing system and even if the minister of Croatian defenders. Because if we've boasted until yesterday with one that doesn't get out in front of the public, in front of the Croatian defenders and say the situation is that and it's necessary to do this. But we're in a medical dictionary in a schizophrenic situation. The state of affairs in this country is schizophrenic. Yesterday, one was represented, and then, overnight, suddenly, the opinion changes, so the need for the day changes that opinion by two, three, four times. It's my problem, and I admit it, that I don't just change my mind and take responsibility for what was done in 2000. And when we talk about the reduction, why it's done. Not because we wanted to take it, it was done to save this country that was brought before the abyss and it's happening again. That's why I'm surprised that the ruling structure doesn't have the courage to say as former Prime Minister Sanader said, which is no longer mentioned here, we're in a banana, we've ruined the situation and at least we're retired. The situation is serious, but that doesn't mean that we can go over what's been going on in these six or seven years, because if we go over it, if we don't learn, no one guarantees that the situation in the future is going to be something better. And for that reason, for several reasons, I cannot support this in this segment as far as the defender is concerned, not the retirement of parliamentary deputies and all that, but the defenders. First, because this is just patching holes. There's nothing going on in the long run. Secondly, the savings were not made where they were to be spent. And third, it's quite the opposite of what was said yesterday. Let's remember the law of 2004 that was passed. I accept that the one from 2001 was absolutely wrong. Then I said, gentlemen, keep an eye on it, you'll destroy the pension system, don't remove control mechanisms, and the control mechanism was among other things that only a person with HRVI status established by the Croatian Defence Ministry can exercise the right to defence pension. That's not what you were listening to. It was spoken in every dictionary of my exposure. All right, it's over. I forgive her, she's Christianly forgiven. I'm forgetting no. Six months ago, we changed exactly that rule of law. After five years, we changed what was at the beginning, it was known to be wrong, that it would open a hole that we are now trying to close. But don't go five years back. A few weeks ago there was a debate here on the report on the rights of Croatian defenders, so then I said there was a reduction in pensions and I also predicted a way of linear reduction and I also talked about a reduction in health care since there is still room for some kind of savings. But what happened then, for the first time, that report was supported by the almost unanimous entire Parliament. Whether we accept the report because it is well written without a type of feller or some obvious inaccuracies or because we accept or do not accept public policy in this segment. So today we have an interesting situation and those who accept the report, and therefore the system today is against it, and those who were yesterday for this existing system today propose its amendment. Secondly, when I say that savings were to be spent where they can be implemented and where it is necessary to implement and Croatian defenders seem to me, some associations have also pointed out this, and this is the introduction of rationality in state-owned companies that continue to operate irrationally. The only thing I thank God for is a crisis, so there's no more big public procurement. And against corruption and crime, the prime minister herself said last week on my question at the current morning that they do not think around, they do not intend to account against her future consensus of all political parties has not been established, i.e. concretely speaking of irregularities, illegalities in the state-owned enterprise of Croatian highways, and such companies thank God there is more. One is a criminal responsibility, one is the work of the State Attorney's Office, and the other is the determination of political responsibility and attempts of political seduction of order in terms of functioning, the legal functioning of institutions and in this segment of state-owned enterprises. These 200 million kuna savings this year or I don't know six hundred million kunas could have been saved without a problem that we were building a little cheaper kilometers of highways. For all, it would be for those who took, and you wouldn't have to take others. But greed has no limits. And that's why a fire vehicle, highways, planes, helicopters and spaceships don't matter. Corruption has no colors, no ideology. The question is do we want to fight her or do we not want to fight her? Or let's take the law from last week's golf course, apartmentization. Once again, one narrow circle of people is best suited, and at the same time we take the other. So it's no problem to take, but the problem is some kind of justice to establish. And when you take us, I don't know next week about trams and buses, you should know that the same measures should be taken according to the government that proposes it, because we know that irrationalities don't happen in the Croatian Parliament where some parliamentary representatives use more or less cars and for their own purposes. It's a minimum. Irregularities happen in the government. There and in the ministries. Where there's power, where it's decided. And when the Government proposes such proposals, let the Parliament take a first look at their backyard and I expect that when the bill is on the agenda. And that in the end, once again, this law does not solve anything. This is just patching holes. If we know what the tide of new pensioners is, this is just holding water like the Prime Minister herself says above, or keeping her head above the water level. If we came, if that's why we created the Croatian state, to keep our heads above the water, then we didn't do a good job. I believe that we created this country so that its citizens could live well in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53820	Thank you. Four corrections. First Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct Mr. Pancic's incorrect claim that there were no other reasons for eliminating individual solutions, not individual ones, but four and a half thousand. There were strictly political reasons for impatience towards Croatian defenders and I am responsibly saying that because I saw it in the Offices of the State Administration, in referendums for defenders where for political reasons, orders were given to be audited and to whom pensions should be abolished. It was clearly coming from political circles. I am pleased that you have come to protect Croatian defenders and take care of them today with ex post intelligence. She's too late to worry about you, and she's also hypocritical. And about everything else about Croatian people with disabilities, families of the dead, I will talk about children in my debate. I assure you that there are lists and I have them that you have politically acted on the population of Croatian defenders to cut them down as much as possible because they were not similar to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53822	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Josip Pancic. The edge of Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53823	Mr. Vice President, don't you think this was a small breach of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Djakic, if you want to correct your replica, then give the opportunity to respond. You were correcting something that I absolutely didn't say. However, this debate still takes a little courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53824	Well, I can't say that I heard exactly what he said, what you said, was that, if you were correcting, if Djakic, Mr. Djakic was correcting an incorrect quote that didn't exist then he was wrong, if then he's right, then you're wrong, but I can't know for sure now. Anyway, I'm not wrong. And Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Pancic presented in his debate a number of incorrect allegations, of which I will make an effort to correct two. The first is the fact that I quote her as a schizophrenic state in this country. A colleague of Pancic's is simply not true. It's one thing that's ugly and what's in this House on the left of this assembly has become the usual behavior of Parliamentarians. This is not true because it is the fact that only those in this country who do not want to get well freaked out because of the economic recovery programme of Croatia that has been brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and while you have mentioned that some of them are, because they change their minds, there is that Zagorje that only fools do not change their minds. Comrade Pancic, and I have seen that you have changed your mind for some of your known reasons, may have left the Social Democratic Party late. And it's incorrect that you predicted a few months ago a pension reduction, Mr. Pancic, so you did it from 2000 to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53826	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do to correct the two incorrect allegations of Mr. Pancic, and it's twice saying that this is just a patching of holes, which is incorrect, and that it's an attempt at political seduction of order. This is incorrect, one and the other, precisely because the reasons lie in fostering economic growth and a sustainable social insurance system, and I will remind you that just at the time you were minister of coalition government, that the pensions of Croatian wartime disabled persons were reduced from 8% to 20%, the right to abolish for a special salary of 50% of the personal disability for Croatian wartime wartime people, as have been unlawfully implemented procedures for repealing and abolishing the status of Croatian wartime disabled and permanent rights, so the judgments of the Administrative Court have been returned to 4000 and 280 cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53828	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleagues have corrected a few incorrect allegations, and of course he's also stuck to my ear that we're in a schizophrenic situation. Of course it's an incorrect quote, but in some ways I'm impressed with how easy my colleague Pancic is using these professional names and is understood in medicine. He even says that yesterday in a package of these health laws, health reforms that we also deny certain rights to disabled people. I had an argument in front of the club, so I don't remember that. But it seems to me to my colleague Pancic that you have the same memory issues so that today you speak one day another. At the time of your authority, you have ruthlessly flogged the defenders, and today you stand up for their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53830	Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going to say once again that the reasons for making such decisions lie in the fact that economic growth, sustainability of the social security system, but also the increase in social transfers. The government of the Republic of Croatia, we all know, has developed a whole programme of economic recovery. The programme provides for a further review of the overall pension system, including the benefits of pensions under more favourable conditions. We also know that the plan for the implementation of the social recovery programme as a short-term measure by the end of 2010 is the planned revision of the systems of these pensions acquired under more favourable conditions and reduction, and preparations for the gradual abolition of certain categories. In implementing acts in the first group of special rules governing the right to pension, more favourable than the conditions laid down by the Pension Insurance Act or the pension, the Law on Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Persons, the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the Law on the Rights of Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their family, the Law on Special Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees in Mine Action, the Law on Humanitarian Mine Action, the Law on Croatian Academy of Science and Art. All these pensions would be reduced by 10%, since 1 July of this year with a payment in August of this year, and that as we have heard more than 3 and a half thousand kuna per month, in a way that the reduced pension cannot be less than 3 and a half thousand kuna. The category of reduced pensions would include Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, as we also heard from members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, participants of the National Liberation War, and members of the Croatian Homeland Army. The reduction will not cover the 100% Croatian wartime invalids from Homeland War, pensions of up to 3 and a half thousand kuna, pensions under the Law on Special Rights in Pension Insurance and Rights based on the unemployment of employees in Istrian coal mines Tuvalac and the retirement pensions of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. By applying this law for this year's savings will be around 250 million kuna, projections for 2011 are around 610 million kuna and for 2012 around 620 million kuna. The economic and financial crisis that has taken place and Croatia has re-percussions on pension insurance, so it is a direct need to save and increase income wherever possible, including the area of pension insurance. Therefore, the savings of public funds, which would be implemented in this way by participating in the use of these funds, would also participate in their savings in proportion to their own opportunities. These are all the reasons I'm going to support the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53832	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53833	Here's when you want to talk and run a dialogue then lift up a replica board and give the options to the other side not to agree to what the first page is going to say. It's parliamentaryism as I understand it. So when Mrs. Klaric talks about the sustainability of the system, I'm just asking a question, and why you made it unsustainable in 2004, accepting that everything that was until then was not from your point of view properly. Which allowed the pension committees to determine whether a Croatian defender had been wounded or injured in the wartime but did not allow it to be allowed to be the only institution that was relevant for it, which is the Ministry of Defence, but after three and a half years, or five years, you changed exactly that provision that was entered into the 2001 Law. So, the 2001 Law, if you wanted to change, you had every opportunity and right to change it, but my question is why you threw water out the window and threw out what was good, which you later admitted yourself and which in the meantime led to this unsustainable situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53834	Reply to the replica of Ms. Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53835	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Representative, I would not agree with you, just as much as it is due to the non-compliance of disability and interest with the cost of living, later, since 2004, it has had to be paid back to a total of nothing less than 21 million kuna. I will also tell you, Mr. Pancic, that the systematic whaling of defenders of post-traumatic disorders was also an embarrassing questionnaire to the MP1/2 at the time of your coalition authority from 2000 to the end of 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53836	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53837	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've heard a lot in today's debate but let's say that pension insurance based on generational solidarity in the Republic of Croatia is governed by a 98 law with a lot of additions later not to name them, and that same law provides pension insurance for employees of equal persons, members of independent activities, farmers, users of the rights under previous rules in pension insurance from the former state. We also heard that according to special regulations, there are 13 arranged in a more favourable way, pensions are arranged and pension rights are meant for parliamentary representatives, judges, all said, government members, chief state auditor, President of the Republic, military persons, police officers, etc., there are 180 thousand of them we have heard all this, in the debate. Here's just this list, these regular ones, or to put it this way on more favourable terms, says it's really necessary to secure significant funds, we've heard 35 billion kunas of which 20, as we've heard from the contribution of 22 billion and 13 billion from the state budget. Of course, there was a moment when the state budget was not able to allocate the funds so much and in these circumstances this Law was adopted. I think that it is very clear and what is very important to repeat in this place that groups would not include and it is well repeated and in this place, which would include pensions of more than 3.5 thousand, 3.5 thousand kuna 10%, that is to say, but which would not include pensions in the monthly amount of up to 3 thousand 500 kuna, pensions of Croatian wartime invalids from the Homeland War, wartime wartime people with damage to the organism 100%, pensions under the Law on Special Rights Pension Insurance and the rights of employees in the Istrian coals of Tuplek and Labin, and pensions under the law on conditions for obtaining the right to an old pension of workers of professionally exposed asbestos. So it's also said that if I didn't repeat it one more time, it was said what savings would be for this year and for the next year in that sense. Thinking is different, of course, from either the left or the right, which is why and why, but it is certainly necessary to say that it is responsibility and determined action, and that part I will support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53838	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53839	You see, you better keep your mouth shut, now you've given me reason to speak a little more than I planned. It's nice to have a colleague list of whom this law won't cover, and we'll agree to that. But the problem is that it's being silenced, it's persistently silenced by whom this Law includes. And this Law includes more than 50,000 Croatian defenders, and members of their family. And that might not have been so controversial that until yesterday you did not have the success of the ruling structure based on the Homeland War and Croatian defenders, and as evidence you did not highlight the Hague and the generals in The Hague, but you pointed out material donations that were not really small. And what's the problem? Is the problem with your change of opinion overnight or is the problem with my persistent repetition that this country can only survive if we spend what we earn, it's a non-typical social democratic policy, I must admit, it's a typical conservative policy, but our problem colleague Shakespeare will probably agree with that, which HDZ is not a classic right-wing conservative party, because that would probably make it better in this country as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53840	HDZ is an advanced conservative ethnic party. Christian direction, which covers all layers and pursues justice and truth. And a reply to the replica Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53841	I thank you fellow Pancic for the replica and the possibilities, but somehow I don't see you hiding out there. I am pleased to talk to you, and I also welcome this statement positively because I see it as a regret for what you have done, as a repentance, and we as Christians must add more and I promise that I will no longer sin. Because you've been wrong so far, of course, and we've had a lot of those mistakes of yours to correct. So from the defenders of the 4.5 grand, it means the debt to the pensioners, the maternity benefits and all the other things in that part. And we're proud of what we did. But of course we also show responsibility to resolve these complex circumstances and to ensure regular pensions in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53842	Thank you. And another replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53843	counterpart Milinkovic says this bill is proof of the government's responsible behaviour. Just a note now is in the pension insurance records 13 categories, 2 still come because there are no users, but the laws have already been adopted. It's asbestos, and it's demining workers. So by the end of this year there are 15 categories of these pensions not just existing 13. But how can we talk about the government's responsible behaviour that we are now pouring big tears here for pensions above $3.5 thousand and you point out as a great value that those up to 3.5 won't shrink, while at the same time you're not telling us that the average age pension of the workers is 2 thousand and 377 kuna. When I add family and disability, then the average pension is 2 thousand 162 kuna. And how responsible is this behavior if this bill does not correct any injustices that the system of special pensions has brought. For example, I repeat to you that parliamentary representatives and members of the government can and some also make two pensions, this is known by the Resort Ministry and has not proposed to amend the law to erase the possibility of obtaining two pensions on the same basis, because its foreign internship is recognised as a condition for obtaining the right to a privileged pension in Croatia and, of course, abroad, that other state recognises. Responsible behavior would be if the government said, that part we're changing doesn't have two pensions on the same basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53844	Reply to replica Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53845	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53846	I didn't follow you very well. You'll do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53847	Col. Milinkovic mentioned Croatian Labourists only twice as a commercial to do us, and he had to advertise us three times. Three times you have to mention Croatian labor colleagues. It's not enough twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53848	In the first part, you were a little weaker in the second you gave in. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53849	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the proposal for a Law on the reduction of pensions, which are achieved according to specific rules on pension insurance. Namely, there are certainly those who are privileged on this internet of all these declared pensions under special regulations. The pensions of representatives in the Croatian Parliament have also been privileged. also those who are in the Croatian Academy of Science and Art, the pension of the President of the Republic, is certainly the privilege of obtaining such a pension. But there is no way we can agree, and I personally cannot agree and the population I represent, otherwise the Croatian military disabled are also privileged pensions, i.e. users of privileged pensions. It is first and foremost that all of this online except material resources we cannot agree with that name because all of these injuries, wounds, all of these parts of the body that I have prepared for these images are certainly not privileges for any of these Croatian defenders who have honestly and honestly defended and freed the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Who certainly realized the possibility of you laughing in the Croatian Parliament today to have fat and good wages, to have privileges and to use them. You're even so hypocritically laughing at it all. It is certain that Croatian wartime people as a population of victims of the Homeland War are not those who view this only from a material perspective, do not look at the stability of the state of Croatia, its budget, its survival and the events of the disaster that took place in Greece. Surely the measures here are neither popular nor light. And when we discussed them and with the population that I represent, we certainly had doubts, but we had no doubt that 10% is necessary for all linear and equal to all those who have over 3.5 thousand kuna. That was no doubt. Conscious and aware of the Croatian state we wanted, which we love today and which we want to continue to operate on a legal basis. By solidarity with everyone else in order to achieve our incomes, we want to stress that we have accepted 10% as the necessary and need today's adoption. However, there is something that is not safe for us, which is 4 months until the suspension of a special tax. It creates difficulties for us, and you haven't thought about it at all or spoken about it by all these conversants now. Because that way they'll have over six thousand kunas with 14% of the burden on their incomes. Surely this population has its own needs. Because none of them got an apartment for nothing, but they paid it off from those receipts. Surely one of them has car loans. And that's how this population lives. I'm sure he's got his own family and he's got kids. Surely, because of the censorship of 6 thousand kunas or per family member, 1,000 kunas cannot receive scholarships from the Fund from Croatian defenders. And these are all the problems that bother us, but fully aware of the situation in which the Republic of Croatia is located, I certainly believe that we will also endure these measures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in this package of measures we are certainly the first to strike even though we are not at all the first. The first were officials, ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it reduced 15% of its incomes. When she was also affected by a special 4% tax, it's 19%. When the MPs were lifted from the garage, it was over 20%. We are certainly burdened with new measures to be announced, which are that they will no longer be for our representatives of free transport in the public sector, except for the real needs of the Croatian Parliament. Surely these are all the measures that say that it is necessary and necessary to stabilise the state budget, further stabilisation and fostering economic growth, and certainly there was a time when GDP grew and when the state budget was growing and higher, and then the possibilities for harmonising pensions and pension growth were quite different and we need to clearly and unequivocally talk about it today. Surely they would be happier if this fire of the crisis that has gripped Croatia was also extinguished by Daimler's trucks. Surely that fire crisis could have been compensated to the team and we believe it would be. And that when this hot crane that certainly burns Croatian society and the Croatian budget with 4 million and 600,000 euros or 33 million kuna will certainly help the state budget when we see who they are. So is golf, Nanbudo land that has been sold, and a series of other affairs that have been made, and all those that have not been proven, and against which proceedings are being conducted. Whether it is in Podravka, whether it is in TEP, whether it is anywhere, we agree that any corruption and crime should be combated with equal measure and treated with equal legal rigidity in order to fill the budget of the Republic of Croatia, how the population that created, defended and freed the Republic of Croatia would not be able to bear again the burden of the crisis, but also the burden of corruption. Corruption that has no colour or borders, I will repeat, would certainly be good in the Croatian budget for 4 million and 600,000 euros in bribes received by someone. Also, out of all the other sucked money, no matter who it's about, I don't point a finger at anyone unless it's proven because everyone's innocent until they're legally convicted. Yeah, privileged pensions. The constant theme of individuals who do not want to change their rhetoric, who do not actually want to agree that none of the Croatian defenders fought for privileges or privileges. He fought for Croatia's homeland because it was necessary then. And all of you who today or in this Croatian home or from the union, all deserters and all the profiteers who point fingers at that population certainly have reasons, and the reasons are clear and unequivocal. The reasons for this are because they did not participate, did not want it, did not love it and never agreed with it that it was a state of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, independent, sovereign and independent. Today when we share the burden of crisis there are certainly doubts in my population that I represent, are we not equal to the bar with these miners from... Or with these asbestos patients. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why and we put you as some that won't cover it or why we didn't agree to step that 10% for all but not 14%, but no more than 10%. These four months will be difficult to overcome in view of the plan of life activities that each of the Croatian disabled has, but I also said to the Veterans Committee, I believe that my friends, comrades and victims and this time will brush all of this in front of them, I guess, and last time to face any participation in the survival of Croatia, in the survival of the budget, in the contribution to preventing further crisis, in the contribution of economic recovery, in the contribution that Croatia is making to its further European path, but no longer on the backs of Croatian disabled, Croatian defenders who are no longer with us, no longer on the back of those who have allowed it to live freely, sovereignly and independently, working, creating and moving the paths that are drawn just in the 1990s. So all these politicizations we heard today certainly have no basis. They have no basis because we don't attach anything to any population as representatives of the ruling coalition, but we look at how to solve together the crisis that has hit the whole country, how to get rid of it the easiest and fastest way to live richly and advancedly, so that there are no times like this when moves that are not at all popular. I therefore believe that, above all, the disabled, the families of the dead, the children, those who are without parents, are aware of the situation and that together, in solidarity with the entire Croatian society, they will carry the burden of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53850	Thank you. Four replicas. First, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53851	I thought it would be impossible, and then last week I caught up with the thought of agreeing with the HVIDRA presidency's position on making a delay for Croatian defenders for the past few months so that they would not pay 14% already. However, after my colleague Djakic's discussion, I am a little in doubt whether it has remained an attitude or changed. And I should say immediately in advance, if HDZ goes with that amendment or at least a colleague, Djakic, who is also president of HVIDRA, that I will support this amendment, and I believe that the government will also accept this suggestion by that defence association, the Croatian Military Disabilities Association, and that this reduction will take place later on for Croatian defenders. Because really these few months wouldn't lose much, because the problems will only arise next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53852	Replication response, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53853	Well, here we heard that some things were impossible, but I thank you for offering to help Mr. Pancic, because it was very difficult for us for two years when we were without lip in your unilateral decision of HVIDRA and no lip. These are the words and actions of you personally who have declared false disabled people, who without hearing and without reason absolutely obeyed the party's orders to take down whom, at which point and how to resolve the rights to a disability pension or the right to a family pension after the death of the deceased and the missing. I thank you for your support. She's not needed. I, with my population, will be responsible for what we represent and we will find a solution together with the Government to help the population that has always been used by the HDZ government in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53854	Second replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53855	You say, we will surely endure these measures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I don't doubt that at all, and whether the pensioners who have 3400 kunas will, even by special regulations, but 3400 kuna, who are now taking 10%. You're in favour of the defense population, which is perfectly fine and you're yelling at someone, and I don't know who you and this particular government aren't taking 10% of their pensions right now, as if they're adding. Here's how you're yelling at someone I don't know who. If the Prime Minister were here, she might get angry, you probably made a fuss about her. Because it is the prime minister who is proposing to this same defense population that you are so generously taking to reduce 10% of your pensions. You say they fought for this country. Yes, they fought not only for the freedom of this country, but also for Croatia as a country of prosperity. When you won power, you had GDP, you inherited GDP from the Racan government of 6 and a half percent. You've ruined everything. As in the '99s, you left the country with a negative growth rate, so you'll leave it after these elections. You did this to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to those same defenders because they share the fate of this country. So this whole speech of yours is one of the most common hypocrites.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53856	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a man who hasn't even read the legal provisions that the law provides, he doesn't write about 3400 kunas anywhere, there's no such norm, but 3500 kuna, and it can't be less than that. And you're saying you're reducing 3400 kuna. That's what I wanted to tell you. You laugh like an asshole, because you look like shit!
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53858	Please choose your words, choose your words. I warn you, pick your words.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53859	Well, that's an irritation I couldn't do, I'm sorry, but here. Excuse me. I'm out of here. So it's 3500 kuna, and that's what we should stick to. It can't be cut down any less. 3600 kuna can be reduced by 100 kuna, not by 340 kuna or 350 kuna. And what I want to say is what we left behind, what you left as GDP growth. In 2003, you left seven billion unpaid bills that came to be charged immediately. Other contractual obligations that could not be regulated and these were true in that time. GDP growth went beyond the next few years and thus was given more and more to the defence population as much as possible. So far, this economic crisis has not been met with the guilt of Croatian defenders, but has been moved from the world, from Europe. But if your 4 million and 600 euros came into the budget instead of your pockets, it would certainly be a lot... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53860	My colleagues, please, let this be another occasion to choose words and not to use offensive words. Comrade Djakic, you've overstepped and this is not right to call Agent Stazic an asshole. That's what I'm warning you about. That's offensive, and don't use it. Nothing's funny! Representative Ivan Bagarić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53861	Mr. Vice President, so my replica of my colleague Djakic at his presentation, and also my pleasure to take after he was really challenged and with the story. So, counterpart Djakic spoke about, in the context of the defenders' privileges, that is, everything that this expression carries in our space, in our public. I would say, therefore, fellow Djakic that the privilege has actually become a synonym, an expression primarily discriminatory towards those who are most responsible. And I totally agree with you that actually, here are these pictures of it showing that in no way was the privilege of giving part of the body, to give part of the health. But it was a privilege to defend the state. On the other hand, some other states that hold to their defenders, when I talk about these countries, then I think about their public, their media, and also their opposition. Then they experience everything their defenders get by confessing to those defenders. And in their language of privilege there is no negative context at all because it is believed to be a giving of recognition to people for a key contribution to the creation of the state's defence. And I'm really taking this opportunity and I'm calling both the public and us here in the Parliament and all to really give up this species once and for all, I'd say discrimination against those who gave everything they could to create the state and to constantly trip them and call them out for it and, in some ways, further harm. I'd like to add more to your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53862	It's good, it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53863	That I'm pleased to. Thank you very much. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53864	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53865	So here, Mr. Vice President, we were talking about the use of terms, privileges, privileges, privileged ones all the time, and that actually offends the population of Croatian wartime victims, from disabled people to those who died, and they are a category that, by some, they have had the privilege of being on the defender of their country and of putting their lives in the same place. I would only say that I believe that those measures that are envisaged, which I heard this morning, will correct the injustice that was, that over 25 thousand and 200 kuna will be tax 50%, so that it will contribute to the charge of the budget and you will not be more than 25 thousand kuna with a 5% increase, but it will be with a reduction of 5% and it will certainly be satisfactory in this respect given the defence pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53866	And Madam Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53867	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Djakic, listening to your debate, which, as counterpart Stazic said, is the most focused towards us here from the SDP ranks as if we are reducing the pensions of Croatian defenders. I'm just stressing that, but I wanted to say something else. By listening to your debate, I cannot really believe that you, as president of the strongest Croatian defence association HVIDRA, are so keenly defending the reduction of defence pensions by 10%. Well, what I least expected from you is that you, as president and representative of the defence population, are struggling not to reduce those pensioners, but you obviously do not act as president of HVIDRA here, you do not represent that population, but obviously here you represent, or you stand on the defender of HDZ politics, you are primarily a politician and therefore you support this measure of reducing the pensions of Croatian defenders of 10%. And there's something else I'd like to say. Croatian defenders, as well as Croatian citizens, are not to blame that the Croatian state is in this situation today. When you were talking in some kind of spirit that was... The SDP authorities, then I have to say that Croatia's liquidity has reached 29 billion kuna, that the state of the Croatian economy is catastrophic and that Croatian citizens are living increasingly difficult and that all of these measures that the government has taken in crisis taxes, introduced new commitments, imposed on health contributions, so everything it has done has only been done in a way that further impoverished Croatian citizens. [[You don't understand.]] And also between them and the defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53868	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53869	Here, Mr. Vice President, I must say that I am always warmly sometimes and emotionally and heartily defending the interests of Croatian people with disabilities of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders and today, from 10% be assured we made the decision unanimously, on the main board of HVIDRA of the Republic of Croatia at an extraordinary session. We have brought in these 4 months for this 4% which remain a special tax, and therefore I am hard and sorry, and I have done everything but speaking with all the relevant ministers and the Shuker, and Ivić and the Prime Minister, I am sure these measures are necessary, necessary and I believe that both my friends and my comrades will understand my efforts, and I will certainly continue to strive for the population of the most responsible to be always protected. In any way, in public or in quiet diplomacy, I will fight for their rights, and I will certainly always stand on the defender's and the homeland of Croatia, but also those who made it honorablely and defended it, unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53870	Mr. Representative Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53871	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the very beginning, I will absolutely not support this bill because I oppose any variations in the reduction of pensions for people with disabilities from the Homeland War, regardless of the category, expressing respect and respect for all that they have done and their current situation. But I think this is the moment to say one more thing, I think that Croatia has been doing almost all the wrong things for the last year, constantly trying to take away the funds symbolically, and in fact for that time it stops entirely the economic system, because the entire state administration today, their leaders no longer dare to make any decisions, sign any decisions, and even members of the commissions, for example, for the sale of shipyards, will not make any decision unless Mladen Bajic sits here, so that we know what decision we make. This shows that the state is in complete blockade, because it is obvious that the state's attorney must be a member of all the committees, because any decisions can't be made. A huge state property has been immobilized, I can understand that a hotel complex has been destroyed for 6 months or a year because there is no solution for it, but I can't understand that it stands for 15 years and that it is not in the function of the development of Croatia, and there is no such one in Croatia. But in recent days we have some more opportunities to see, we have opportunities to see here in Warsaw Street of daily protests, which will obviously bring a very fast burden of compensation to the state of Croatia for investors, and it is obvious that this will be worth just over a billion kuna, which will ultimately mean that every Croatian pensioner will probably single out one pension for the recovery of such damage. I cannot accept such a situation in Croatia in which, because of the political conflict or some departure of an individual from a political party, the cost of it is transferred to the Croatian state in excess of a billion kuna. We're talking 250 million kuna savings here. Indeed, there is a category of people that I would have to say carry a common burden of condition in the country, first of all I mean here both parliamentary representatives and their pensions, but in general, we need to comb out where everything is and what can be seriously saved. At this point, we have the need to return apartments to people who have lost tenant rights worth more than 3 billion kuna, which is an incomparably greater amount than this that will be achieved by these savings, but we also have pensions from NOB 45 thousand today, my question of how many such pensioners do not live in Croatia today, live in a neighbouring country, and are regularly receiving a pension but the question is whether there may be between them and over 100 years old, whether pensions are paid to the deceased. Croatia has no control over this system, anyone can transfer pension payments to the business bank, empower someone, children to raise that pension. Mirina sits neatly, and a person may not be among the living for a very long time, and how long there are such pensions no one is worried about. Also, the question of how many persons in Croatia live in areas of special state concern at this time are registered as unemployed, receiving all benefits as aid for the unemployed while at the same time being in the working relationship, for example, in Serbia. There's a lot of people like that, and it should be combed and cleaned up. The entire complex of 45 thousand NOB pensions certainly speaks of there being no number of even false recipients of these pensions, deceased, possibly older than 100 years, and it is simply the whole system on which it can be saved, and not this way over the knee, to decide that certain categories of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia and also the citizens who deserve it are reducing pensions. What has been said today in the debate and I agree that it is necessary to separate the pension scheme from the specific rights to be secured from the state budget. So, in the pension system, the pension system is entitled to pension, everyone who said it today, there were several speakers and I support it, and everything else that is the area of special rights must be secured from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53872	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53873	You're absolutely right, fellow Serbs, when you were talking about paralysis or blocking state institutions today, I was talking about a schizophrenic situation, but eventually it comes to the same thing. The Croatian state is in crisis, i.e. the crisis of governance, which stems from the governance structures of this country, is spreading the crisis to the whole society. And we are now in a position to see almost the entire political elite entering the European Union as a magic wand that will solve all our problems. But we'll agree it won't be so. We'll have to clear up what we systematically, consciously for years. Here we're talking about saving 250 million kuna this year or 600 million kuna last year. If it hadn't been for the Croatian Assembly, you wouldn't have known. Let's remember the Zadar-Gazenica road, with 200 jumps to 600 million kunas, 400 million people put in their pockets. Zadar-Rijeka at the start of 300 million kunas more expensive, and that the equipment of the tunnel is not about painting, painting for the public, small money, 100 million euros have gone here in private pockets and then the structures that have done so, now tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia including Croatian defenders, it is your turn. And you'll have to make a contribution. In a well-organized state, it would not be difficult for every citizen to give what is asked of him but to whom. The ones who robbed this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53874	Replicate reply by Agent Daniel SRb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53875	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Pancic, it is true that entering the European Union cannot be a substitute or a substitution to achieve national objectives. Croatia must have a national goal and an interest to ensure, for example, a better life for all its citizens, and not to enter the European Union itself. But when it comes to actually blocking the state system, then it is about a lack of political courage to make decisions that are objectively exercised by the government, or the government must make. It relates equally to Warsaw Street, it refers equally to riots, i.e. hooligans on football grounds, but it also refers to printing textbooks for high school because it is absolutely amazing that we are a state that has not been able to solve this for 15 years or deal with 20 hooligans. The government must have the courage to make moves to ensure a better life for all its citizens and through this long-term achievement of its national objectives and interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53876	Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In a well-organized state, as we have now heard, one such inconsistencies, one such sloppy political law would certainly not see the light of day nor come to this Assembly. I can agree that the privileged pensions of parliamentary representatives and the privileged pensions of government members, ministers and presidents of the Republic are what are the eyes of this society and that such pensions should certainly be adapted to the living conditions of all our fellow citizens, so I would very much agree if it were more than 10% but be 10%. But this government perfidously, those 505 with a line of rights or unearthed in the opinion of our citizens suffers along with these 180,000 people who have favored their pensions and that those 505 who scrape with a line or to solve these other 180,000 would fall under some 90,000, which would be denied the right to a privileged pension, and put into one of these laws that has neither head nor tail. In a responsible and orderly state, then what stings are if it's parliamentary pensions, if it's government officials' pensions, then those 505 would separate it and tell them we're reducing 10% and you've got a round of applause. But then you'd see how in the assembly you'd raise your hand to take off your pensions to the defense attorneys. Then you'd see it loud and clear. This way under... to take down the parliamentary deputies, so you take down one population under the pretext that you fight for it and that it will be better off if it gets 10% off. Why could this law in one orderly state not see the light of day? Well, because in any case, the minister of shame came to the introduction of this law, and I guess without the weight and thought of how to pass a law like this, it hurt his head and got up quickly and left. Because in this law you've made it very clear that you don't even know how many pensions there are. So you used the word approximately 90 grand in total. You have no idea, so an orderly state has no idea how many of these privileged pensions. Of course, after that, you have no idea how much money is going to be taken from those pensions, so you say about 250 million, about 600 like that. One seriously arranged state you see should know how many citizens have a preferential pension and how much money it is. It says here you have no idea. So one orderly system should of course know how many of these privileged pensions are and figure out how much money it is. Because when we talk about reducing unemployment that I greet, then it's exactly said that the number of unemployed is decreasing, so I don't know how you find that one when it comes to reducing unemployment, and here when pensions are being asked, you have no idea how many people that pensions belong to. It would be polite if you had singled out this law in two legislative proposals, one 505 with a line for parliamentary deputies and government officials and removed 10% of them, but it would also be okay to then these other preferential pensions that 90 thousand people in this way will be damaged you will take their money. It would be good if you made some kind of order there, too, so it wouldn't be proportional to all of us. Because that would be fair then and that would be somehow if we were all equal or fairer before the law or before the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Of course that doesn't occur to you. Also the reasons why these pensions are so one act that demanded a lot of thought, because 10% take, or 5% or 15%, it has to be very much thought and pains the head of thinking how to make such a significant move. It's all because of the economic and financial crisis, of course. Well, then you say it was necessary because of that economic crisis since half of 2009, when you finally admitted that there was a crisis. We're only going first, of course, on that crowbar. Any authority, or all citizens who go to the elections before the elections, expects authorities who will come to them that they will be better off getting paid, that their pensions will be increased. Of course, when HDZ comes to power then we have less pay, we have less pensions, we have a tax on those salaries, we have a hack on those salaries. It is obvious that the expectations of citizens are quite different from that of HDZ coming to power. And also as it turns out that the hack is not good and that the hacker has actually brought nothing into the state budget, then we say that in this law in a regulated country where he would not see the light of the day, that further stabilisation of the promotion of economic growth of Croatia, the government has adopted a programme of economic recovery to which the purpose is and within that programme a revision of pension systems acquired under special conditions is envisaged. Of course it wouldn't hurt your head to review all these pensions because it still requires some time, and we said that the crisis started for you in 2009. This is already 2010. That's what we're gonna do when we do it, then we're gonna get less headache, so we just bring in the 10%, so we've solved the problem. And then you are also referring to the Constitution that says that any restriction of freedom or right must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case and that everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with their economic opportunities. Great. And you see an orderly state that has a government that will make its citizens have bigger salaries and higher pensions, sticking to that new constitution, will take where that money still has. So it might be a good idea for that government without her head hurting with a lot of thinking to introduce a property tax and dividend tax. Because if dividends are brought out of the Republic of Croatia and taxes are paid in some other countries, therefore pensioners, defenders, parliamentary representatives are guilty, so they should have their pensions to their advantage. I think it's impossible or not knowledge or the desire of the authorities to deal with the crisis in one different way, and not just take it and take it to those who need it most, that it's not good. An example. So is it embarrassing to take people with disabilities to give people with disabilities to pay tolls, so they're still listed as 26 grand, so they're told it's a 13 million kuna savings, so it's two Dragics. So is it embarrassing for some kind of authority and for us fellow MPs to raise our hands for such laws? I don't think that's good anyway. And finally. In the light of this law, it is precisely determined under which a circle of beneficiaries of pension insurance rights is so determined, which lists one 7,8 law on rights of defenders, on pension rights, on pension insurance rights, that I do not list them. Great. By law, these people have probably been given some sort of solution. But look at the wonders this state or government that advocates justice and justice that we are all equal before the law says that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, or a public institution that determines and pays the pensions and pension incomes that are the subject of this law, will implement their reduction and pay them under this law, and the proposed reduction would be carried out without a solution in individual cases. So I assume that today's Croatian defenders, MPs, government officials, have a solution to go to some kind of privileged pension. They have a solution. Now they're going to get that solution, and they're going to stay, but then they're going to get the paper, what they're going to get. He'll get less money without a solution because that's how it's done. I think it all goes without saying that it is a serious state, an orderly state that does not deserve Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament to one such insolent, 10% cutting everyone and everything comes first to the Croatian Parliament. Yes, I agree, 505 with a line, a special law, take 10% off, and think about these other privileged pensions and think about the money where there are, where you can take them without this much effort.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53878	Thank you. One correction, one replica. Correction, Mr. Representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53879	Thank you. Well, it's incorrect, colleague Denona, that the minister came, introduced the law and left the assembly for headaches. It is true that for the exceptional sensitivity of this bill, the minister presented the law, waited for the report of all clubs and your club, everyone accepted. So, I don't know if you're in agreement with your club because everything you've been saying didn't add up to how the SDP club declared itself. So, the minister certainly in these difficult times has a lot of work to do today, and I believe he's working to get this country out of the crisis as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53880	Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53881	... There is no more important place than the highest legislative body in the state when laws like this are passed and Niko, there should be a minister sitting here after clubs. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He sat there and left. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know, worse or worse, but he's gone. I think it's the basic human right to be able to live with dignity from his work. In itself, it's a tragedy that we have over 300 thousand people unemployed, that 80,000 people are working and not getting paid. It's already a tragedy, and you can imagine what a tragedy it is when on the horizon you see in the distance the date someone has to retire because we live in a country that has declared privileged all those people who have 3500 kuna pensions. And indeed, in this law, there is a notional confusion, which is also issues of what is even a privileged pension in society and in a country called Croatia. It's a pension of 3500 kuna. It's also a big tragedy. Let them be penalized, i.e. reduced pensions and parliamentary deputies, state officials, etc., but indeed because they are guilty of these other groups that are barely putting an end to the end, so that they are in the same way being struck by the legislator. Here we've heard all sorts of things today, among other things, praises are being sung for coming back to the pensioners. Well, who took it is gonna come back because it's called stealing. And I'm sorry, no matter what, I don't want to offend anyone, she took one government, it wasn't Racan's government, so the Constitutional Court forced her to return, and now you're boasting as a heroic act that you're returning to what the Constitutional Court forced you to do. And secondly, there's enough ideologies about this law. Here it is, there has been a revision of the Constitution, and it looks like it wants to change the results of World War II and declare the winning army suspicious and others unquestionable. Well, come on, at least let's get rid of it here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53882	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53883	Yes, fellow Marine Jurevic, of course, that for one such law which is, sir, I didn't think he had a headache now, he was probably in pain because these three sheets of paper were where it was made up, I guess it took days to sit down and argue that you should take 10% off everyone. I don't think it deserves either this Parliament or this population of people to get rid of it, one way or another, so we're going to take 10% off. I mean, since that thought, I think of great science, he's got a headache and he's not here today. But defending a law like this was necessary for the minister to sit here and sit here and the prime minister when it comes to laws like this that touch the fundamental rights of the defenders we gave it to. And you're a perfiduous means you've planted parliamentary agents so you can take down the defense attorneys. I don't think that's fair. Take 500 of these parliamentary deputies away from them, but this second category of 90,000 people you've listed here, let's talk about them in particular, and give them a slightly different status than you're giving them right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53884	On behalf of the SDP club, a 5-minute debate, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53885	So it is quite clear that pensions are not only reduced to representatives and only to members of the government, they are at least 505. The pensions are reduced to members of the Croatian Army, which are active when they retire. The pensions are reduced to the employees of the interior ministry, so when the cops retire. The peace is reduced to the defenders when they retire. Peacemaking reduces people with disabilities from the Homeland War if they have a disability less than 100%. So, a mouthful of defenders like Djakic, full of disabled people's mouths and then cap per pension. It's HDZ policy. The SDP has prepared two amendments to this bill and the fate of these amendments will determine our position as final, we will determine it at the club according to this law. So we want to be socially sensitive. Since that's not the government, we are making a correction with this amendment and we suggest that pensions are reduced by four different rates, depending on the amount of those pensions. So pensions from 3500 to 4500 kuna are reduced by 2%. The category is mainly attended by the Croatian Army, which has an average pension of 3505 kuna, former political prisoners who have an average pension of 3766 kuna, the Ministry of Interior with an average pension of 3890 kuna. We suggest that the second rate of pension cuts from 4500 to 6000 kuna be 5%, that the third rate of reduction for pensions from 6000 kuna to 8000 kuna be 7% and that pensions of more than 8000 kuna be reduced by 10%. So, by 10%, as the government suggests, pensions of MPs and government members would be reduced. But other groups of companies receiving a pension of 3600 kuna or 3700 kuna should not bear such a burden. It's not just fair, it's not fair. It's certainly all these people's fraud, political fraud. They voted in favour of a government that promised them well-being, and eventually they were defrauded. In the end, they are also taken away from what the previous government gave them. This amendment would help make the state budget a little less empty when it can't be filled, since we already have such an incompetent government that can't boost employment and fill the budget. But we have her as we have her. This amendment helps, therefore, to treat the budget with savings. But also take care of social sensitivity. The second is our amendment to delete Article 5, i.e. to delete the provision that pensioners are not given a solution. Why? Because this is necessary for the legal certainty of our citizens. The pensioner can't have a solution that says his pension is 3800 kuna, and he gets 3500. He can't. In the end, what can the government do? What can the government do? He can make a decision to miscalculate them all, to calculate them more. What will they do? Can they complain to anyone? I can't do it to anyone, because they don't have a solution. They don't have a legal act. To issue a legal act on depriving someone of acquired rights is a necessity. It's a son of a quanton, a condition that must be fulfilled. We want to protect all the pensioners you're cutting wages to right now, and we're asking that a solution be issued to them, about how much you're taking them. Therefore, the fate of this amendment will depend on our attitude towards the legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53886	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Kresimir Rogman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53887	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would once again just point out what the minister said. It is, therefore, a necessary and urgent measure under the Economic Development Programme. Two, just two, three remarks so there's no doubt left. So, as far as the change in pension levels was concerned, no solutions were made. When pensions were last reduced, parliamentary deputies were not given solutions, but this is the key thing whether or not there is judicial protection in such a case. So the unequivocal answer is judicial protection exists. Anyone may request and receive judicial protection if it is miscalculated or wrongly solved. Next, just two more things. The question of equality has been raised since those below, those close to 3 and a half thousand kunas will not be reduced below 3 and a half thousand kuna. So it's done consciously just for equality, because otherwise it all shrinks by 10% those who have 3520 they would burn significantly below 3500. And finally the question of the exact number. Therefore, it is available to all exact numbers to which an insurance undertaking would relate and which would be the amount, so on 1.5. that would refer to 90564 insurance undertakings. But why do you put in such a proximating number? At the time of the reduction of concrete implementation, that number no longer has to be the same. Of course, unfortunately, it's about the pensioners. Some don't have to be insurance anymore. Unfortunately, they do not have to be among the living. That's why they're talking about numbers that are, therefore, unfavourable. And only in the end to say about the minister. Just as it was already said for the importance of this topic and came to Parliament today, and unfortunately he couldn't stay even though he wanted to, because at the same time it was a meeting of all ministers with social partners on the amendment of the Labour Act. And then with the social partners in the public sector, so public and state services about changing the collective contract and reducing their rights. In fact, it's all in a set of economic recovery measures, so simply the minister had to leave, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53888	Thank you. Three corrections. First Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53889	It is simply not true that reducing the pensions of defenders is a necessary measure for the recovery of citizens. Never taking away citizens' rights especially in this most sensitive category can be a condition for economic recovery. It's just an extension of agony. And I remind only, the Minister of the time, while in opposition, the current prime minister spoke until 2003, we will restore dignity to the Croatian defenders. Is this the return of that dignity?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53890	Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53891	Of course, it is an incorrect claim that this taking will be necessary and will stimulate economic development. That's not true. You're just not taking anything, because you have nothing to give. In order to stimulate economic development, we should invest some money somewhere, start developing something. So you can't encourage anything with this, because you don't have anything. Because if you had, you'd give, but you don't have that money. So that's not an exact claim. Don't deal with such claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53892	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53893	It is not true that there is a legal remedy for pensioners who will now reduce your pension. I can run a administrative dispute. I can't complain if they don't have solutions to complain about. I can only start a administrative dispute. And what do you think people with 3600 kuna pensions have money for court fees, for legal fees, to exercise their right. And how much will you be saving if you start administrative disputes, how much money will be spent on the unnecessary, completely unnecessary work of these courts of misdemeanor, administrative and how much damage will these citizens you are already taking? You say this will stimulate economic development. This will only trigger one, further poverty for the people of this country. It's all you encourage, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53894	I'm closing the debate. You're three-tenths of a second late. Well, that's the problem. [[But I wanted to correct the last sentence. I can't lift a tile while the gentleman speaks when I don't know what he'll say.]] Logical mathematical problem. ... Caution's working. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm making a complaint against a conviction that I'm innocent of being cautious about. Innocent, but freed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53895	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the reduction of pensions, which were achieved according to specific rules in pension insurance, the emergency procedure was P.Z. The number 545th Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, and I ask the Proposer's representative to declare the amendments submitted. State Secretary Mr. Kresimir Rogman.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53896	Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53897	Amendment to Article 3 of the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53898	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the amendment is not accepted, so it would not achieve the objective of the law because savings would therefore be minorized.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53899	It's unacceptable. I'm asking the SDP Representatives' Club to come forward. Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53900	This is the purpose of our amendment to reduce the former parliamentary representatives and members of the government's pension by 10%, but not to reduce 10% by other categories primarily to defenders, people with disabilities less than 100%, academics and other categories. So we suggest that this reduction be classified into four categories. For pensions from 3 and a half thousand to 4 and a half thousand kuna, the pension is 2%, for pensions from 4.5 to 6 thousand kuna, for pensions from 6 thousand to 8 thousand kuna is 7%, and for pensions from more than 8 thousand kuna to 10%, according to the Government's proposal. This would practically mean that these 10% reductions only go to former representatives and members of the government who are retired. We consider this a more socially just solution, protecting the interests of the defenders and the disabled of the Homeland War. And we condition by accepting this amendment our positive attitude towards this law. So if the government or parliamentary majority now refuses this amendment we will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53901	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment? Please raise your hand. He didn't get the necessary majority, thank you. Amendment to the second amendment of Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53902	It is not accepted, changes in pension levels without the issue of special solutions have been common practice so far in the Laws 2000 and 2007 and 2009 and without any legal and practical problems and judicial protection has been provided to all.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53903	Thank you. Mr. Stazic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53904	Like this. The pension decision is the basic document of every pensioner, which is a legal act on which some legal remedy can be lodged, in particular a complaint. Without a solution, pensioners remain without the possibility of responding to a change in their pension, in this case retirement. A reduction in that pension. So they're going to have a solution telling them that their pension is 3 thousand and 800 kuna, and they're not going to get 3 thousand and 800 kuna, they're going to get less. If there's a mistake, if you cut them 10%, they won't be able to react, they'll have to start a administrative dispute. You're cutting their pensions, so they won't have anything to pay court fees or lawyers to protect their rights. You don't allow them to exercise their right. Therefore, by not accepting this amendment, you are pushing all these pensioners into one impossible situation, that they cannot be protected by legal means. This represents one violence against law, over the rule of law, this creates one legal uncertainty in the country, especially for the most endangered category, and these are pensioners. This is an unusually important amendment, Mr. Secretary of State, to think again, I call on the parliamentary majority to consider once again what position the pensioners are now in to reduce pensions, are Mr. Djakic and the defenders and the disabled. You put them in a position to cut their pensions without giving them a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53905	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the reduction of pensions made under the special regulations of the Mirovinski Insurance. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you, Secretary of State. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes. 72 votes for, 2 abstentions and 25 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53906	- The proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, is proposed by the Government which submitted the report on the basis of Articles 108 and 110. The Budget Act was implemented by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and the Committee on the Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53907	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me, in short, in the shortest lines to present the implementation of the 2009 State budget. So, as usual at the beginning, there are always a few words about the macroeconomic environment, i.e. economic indicators in 2009, already many times in this assembly and, of course, in the public of Croatia mentioned these data, however, of course they are needed among other reasons, i.e. to point out again, given that they are well and causally, and of course also therefore only related to the implementation of the state budget. So in 2009, we all know that there was a 5.8% drop in economic activity. At the same time, some indicators that have a relatively more significant impact and impact on the budget should certainly mention a decrease in personal consumption of 8 and a half percent, as well as a decline in industrial production, i.e. retail trade. As far as our foreign exchange is concerned, this is one situation where in 2009 we saw below as a result and as a result of a significant reduction in imports of goods and services from the drop in exports of the same ones, we actually recorded an improvement in the account, i.e. on the balance sheet of the current balance of payments, so that it is somewhat reduced. At the same time, it should be said of course that at the end of 2009, certain pressures in the labour markets were recorded, which was also in some way expected, which was actually one of the things why during 2009 and went practically into three budget audits, i.e. we proposed and adopted three budget rebalances. Allow me a few words about the revenue side of the budget. So the total revenues of the budget and the business and proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets in 2009 were achieved in the amount of HRK 110.6 billion, which is 99.4% of the plan, so the plan when I say so is the plan adopted under the third budget rebalancing for 2009, which means almost complete implementation as it was then planned before the summer remember in the 7th month. Compared to 2008, total revenues recorded a drop of 4.6% or 5 and a half billion, which actually brings us to the income level at nominal levels at 2007 level. The 2009 tax revenues as the most significant revenues were made at an amount of $60.6 billion, i.e. 0.4% higher than the plan, but also 8.7% lower than in 2008. You remember that we proposed and that a few changes were actually adopted, as I say, on the revenue side of the budget, so above all, in the value added tax, it should be mentioned that in 2009, 37.1 billion kuna was collected, or 0.6% more than the plan, but also 10.3% less than in 2008. The tax introduced in July, i.e. with effect from August from the special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts, amounted to a total of 1.1 billion kuna. As regards revenues under special regulations, they were made in the amount of 2 and a half billion kuna, which accounts for an annual growth of 5 and a half percent, and it is also due, among other things, to the introduction of compensation for the provision of mobile electronic communications services that have been achieved in the total amount of 110 billion kuna. As for the revenue from the contribution, in 2009, they were realised at 40 billion kuna, which is 1.7% lower than in 2008. As for the expenditure side of the budget, the total expenditure of the 2009 state budget was also made at a total amount of $120.2 billion, which is 0.3% less than planned. So, as I said earlier in income, so is the expenditure side of the budget very close to practically a 100% execution compared to the plan, however, it should also be said from 2008 expenditures are higher by 1.6 billion kuna. Allow me before I go to individual spending sides, or individual components of the spending side of the budget, just to list and apostrophe key actually categories that caused this increase. The pensions grew by 1.6 billion kuna in 2009, unemployment benefits for 467 million kuna, a health care programme of 1.7 billion kuna, and interest costs, i.e. financial expenditure, given the situation in international and domestic financial markets, an increase of 440 million kuna. When you add all that up, you only increase to these four items of over 4 billion kuna. I said that the total expenditure side of the budget actually recorded a 1.6 growth, which means that on the other items, above all, significant savings were recorded on items of material expenditure, subsidies, aid, but also on other expenditures. As for staff expenditure, they increased by 4.2% in 2009, realised in the amount of 22 and a half billion kuna, these 4.2% of the growth is primarily due to that application, the growth of the basis for the calculation of government and public officials' salaries for the first 4 months. You remember well, you remember very well that after that it went with the pay cut, i.e. the return of the base to the level of 2008 and you as representatives and other Croatian officials, so several times this morning the base was reduced on the first occasion by 10, and then by an additional 5% As regards material expenditure, they were executed by 3.7% less than the plan compared to 2008, which is a reduction of 511 million kuna. The largest savings were made and made on expenditures for material and energy, on ongoing investment maintenance but also on costs of official travel, professional training of employees, representation, promotions and the like. For subsidies in 2009, a total of 6.7 billion kuna was allocated, which is 150 million kuna or 2.1% less compared to the previous year, and then we come to an item that is, in itself, the most significant and the largest in the budget of household and citizens made in 2009 amounting to 64 billion kuna, which is 99.2% compared to the planned funds, therefore very close to the planned achievement, however, in relation to 2008, it should certainly be absorbed that this is an increase of 3.9 billion kuna. As regards the acquisition of non-financial assets, i.e. investments and infrastructure, 2.3 billion kuna were allocated in 2009. All that I mentioned and said, therefore, the revenue and expenditure side, the total result of the 2009 state budget is less than 9.5 billion kuna or 2.9% of gross domestic product. This should also be added to what you have on your benches, thus resulting in the achievement of five extra budget users who ended the year with a slight deficit of 160 million kuna, but should also add to the result of the budget of units of local and regional self-government, which in 2009 after a mild surplus in 2008 recorded a deficit of over one billion kuna, exactly one billion and 87 million. So all of the general government's aggregate deficits, so all of these three levels of government can be said to have been achieved at 3.2% of gross domestic product. And just to be clear, for the first time, you have probably noticed this, so with the annual report on the implementation of the 2009 state budget, a report on the annual report on the implementation of the state budget is also attached. And allow only one sentence, therefore, of what is actually a summary and basic conclusion, the overall revision planned and carried out in a manner that provides reasonable assurance that the 2009 Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia does not contain materially wrong statements, that it is drawn up in accordance with accounting regulations and standards and that the provisions of the Law and regulations governing budgetary rules are consistently applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53908	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. Committee on Finance, colleague Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. At its 54th session held on 26 May, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2009 State Budget as a home working body. In his opening statement, the government's representative highlighted the basic macroeconomic indicators in which the 2009 state budget was implemented and which in fact marked the 2009 and the major economic crisis as data on the total income and revenues and total expenditures and expenditures. The government of the Republic of Croatia intervened with three rebalances, with the first two aimed at reducing expenditure and the third one focused on increasing revenues. Several interesting opinions and conclusions were presented in the debate, so that the opinion was specifically taken that the annual report on the implementation of the state budget shows that the proposed measures to overcome the consequences of the economic crisis were more focused on filling the budget and less on encouraging the economy as a whole. However, it is also pointed out that revenue has been achieved in view of the difficult management conditions for the presence of a major economic crisis that has been achieved at an extremely high level of as much as 99.4% of the annual plan. It is also commended that for the first time in addition to the Annual Report on the Implementation of the State Budget there was also a Report of the State Audit Office and this happened with the recommendation of SIGME. Thus, it is apparent that all or irregularities have been removed or are ongoing and there has been no instructions that have not been followed or recommended. The report also held that, in this case, one of the difficult conditions for the implementation of the State budget of the local unit of self-government did not bring any more serious measure of business rationalisation. To contribute to the implementation of the budget. After the debate, the Committee voted mostly, 6 votes to, 4 against the Croatian Parliament to propose the adoption of the Yearly, the adoption of the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2009 State budget, and in accordance with Article 111. The Budget Act is also proposed to the Croatian Parliament to make decisions on granting its consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2009 Croatian Waters Financial Plan as well as the Croatian Roads, State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation, the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the 2009 Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53910	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. Committee on Regional Development, colleague Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee for Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament held on 26 May 2010, discussed the proposal of the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2009 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 6 May 2010. Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 is in accordance with the provisions of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed as an interested working body. The opening presentation was presented by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and Forestry and the Water Economy and the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia. Following the introduction of the applicant, the majority of the Committee members supported the adoption of that Report in the debate. However, attention has been paid to the disproportionateness between the planned and implemented budgets for 2009 and in each divisional position of 0.62. Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. This relates primarily to aid from the pre-accession programmes of the European Union. It is thus pointed out that although the resources of the pre-accession European Union programmes for concrete projects are implemented over several years, more care should be taken into account in the next period in the framework of the budgets allocated to the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, as well as the dynamics of the implementation of those projects. In this connection, the need for a more rapid adoption of the Strategy for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia as a basic plan document of regional development policy will be a basis for the implementation of concrete planned projects at regional level. Furthermore, the majority of the board members supported, without much debate, the decision to give consent to the 2009 annual report on the implementation of the budget plans for non-financial users. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament decided, by majority, to propose a annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with all other relevant decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53912	Thank you very much. The Agriculture Committee? No, I don't. Local self-government, too, no need. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In 2009 the SDP club already had serious objections. The comments were that when we had already stepped deep into the economic crisis and there were no anti-crisis measures in Croatia. The budget was conjectured as if nothing important was happening in the state and in our economy. We suggested we had overestimated incomes. Of course, all this was refused, it was said that there was no crisis, at least not that it was a structural crisis, but possibly some reflection of a financial crisis at the time, a global financial crisis which has already defined in Europe as not only a financial crisis but also an economic crisis. It has also been denied that revenues are overrated. However, early 2009 showed that the budget is not being charged, in order to show that the government is doing something, they were adopted in February so-called. The anti-recession measures of which 10 were listed without any interpretation, and the only one that was later implemented was the first budget rebalance when the over-inflated revenue side of the budget was reduced. Croatia's deep crisis started talking only in the middle of the year when there was a change in the government's leadership. The current current Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, said that we had put some things under the carpet and that Croatia is in a serious crisis, that it is necessary to go back into budget rebalancing. And then in a few weeks, so within a month, we had two more budget rebalances. The first one that actually symbolically reduced certain expenditures, certain costs that are listed here and listed in the very explanation of the travel cost representation and the like, something that even in the years when the economy is progressing should take account of and not waste money on these things. However, the second rebalancing was already more serious because it increased the revenue side. So without some anti-crisis measures, without measures that would increase economic growth, it only went to so-called. The consolidation of public finances in such a way as to partially try to implement the high expenditure side, new taxes have been introduced, special salary and pension taxes have been introduced, new excise duties have been introduced and value added tax has increased. Something that no country in recession and deep economic crisis does. Not increasing taxes especially does not increase those taxes that actually have the highest budget oscillation. These are consumption taxes, because by reducing purchasing power, you are still reducing consumption already reduced production. The result is alarming all macroeconomic indicators in 2009. You'll only see one positive, so I'll count a few. But it's not just that, the macroeconomic indicators that are important as economic indicators are actually down in 2010. And now that we're talking about these macroeconomic data, I'm only going to repeat briefly what the opening statement said. GDP down 5.8%. It is largely due to the decline in consumption because it is in the structure of GDP, in fact, the most serious factor. What do we got? We have a 2.7% drop in imports, a 16.2% drop in exports, a decrease in fixed capital investments of as much as 11.8%. And you know what we have growth? We have a downturn and a personal consumption of 8.5%, and we have a growth of only state spending. It is a symbolic 0.2%, but it worries that it is at some level that it was in 2008, while all other components of consumption fall two-digitally. Industrial production therefore falls by 9.2%, retail by as little as 15.3%. The effect and growth of unemployment has been recorded by 51,000 and 90 more unemployed, which is as much as 21% higher. But what is particularly worrying is that there has been a significant drop in employment of 3.6% or when you convert it into jobs, it's 56 thousand and 21 jobs that have been lost in just one year. This is particularly worrying that Croatia has one of the lowest employment rates of the working population. We're moving here, in 2007, I think the latest data is 57%. However, this is now after such a fall in employment, perhaps even 55%, and according to some European Union directives, it is harder to reach the employment rate of the active population by as much as 70%. Some are very close to it, some have over-work. And now very short on income and expenditure. It has already been said that they are realised at an altitude of 110.6 billion or are lower by 4.8% compared to the year before. However, what dominates these taxes, and why will they remain, in fact, in those revenues, why will they continue to fall? Because consumption taxes dominate. They amount to €46.5 billion in 2009 and account for as much as 77% of total tax revenues, which are actually the most unstable revenues. So this decision, or by adopting the law that we discussed a few minutes ago, will reduce purchasing power, which means that we will reduce inflows into the budget because at that level, the income population spends total income. That is why we at the club think that Croatia must change both budget policy and tax policy significantly. In 2009, there are no effective ones, and even any anti-crisis measures for economic recovery can be freely said, but everything is focused on maintaining the budget. There are no policy changes in the three rebalances, but budget revenues and expenditure are harmonised, and when this is not possible, new taxes are introduced that significantly reduce consumption and further reduce production. Such a policy means a long-term stagnation because the government is focusing on stabilising public finances instead of actually developing a programme that will have the backbone of economic recovery that will carry new jobs, greater production, higher population income, economic growth, and as a result there will be more money in both national and local budgets. The long-term stability of budgetary revenues necessarily requires changes in the tax system that must bring about a change in the structure of tax revenues, a reduction in labour prices. We here keep saying that there should be a reduction in the health contribution paid from employee income, lately and a part of the pensioners and a discharge, taxation of income that will mean an increase in purchasing power. This means reducing the share of taxes on consumption, and introducing a higher share of long-term stable property taxes, and we see that incomes from property taxes in our state budget are symbolic, which will then desimulate the accumulation of assets that are not in function of economic activity but in a speculative function. The expenditures of 120 billion are higher than revenues by 1.4% compared to 2008. With certain reductions compared to the original budget resulting from three rebalancing, expenditure could only be maintained with new tax burdens, borrowing and reduction of personal and pension expenditures. We have a pay cut in 2009 and we have a decision not to coordinate pensions. In other words, in addition to these additional pension taxes and those minimum pensions, they did not grow because the law found that they would not be harmonised in 2009, and in fact, only this year do they see the consequences of the current inaction. The macroeconomic indicators remain on the decline, and it should also reach for further cuts precisely on items that only a month or more ago in Parliament and the Prime Minister said would not be touched, so this is part of the pensions that we are going to vote on tomorrow, the law on which we will vote tomorrow, certain benefits to employees financed from the state budget, so on Christmas Day, the regression for vacation, some other fees, certain social transfers relating to health care that we discussed yesterday, etc. It's right here from the Ministry of Finance, and especially our finance minister is very happy to talk about the deficit and the low deficit rate or the share of GDP. However, the problem of deficits in Croatia is, in fact, in fact, in fact not only at its height but it stems from current spending in the budget, not from investment spending that does not have enough income and is then covered by debt. In 2009, we were in charge of a billion-and-a-half euros, which through a union loan, through bonds and a billion-and-a-half dollars, and interest rates are now quite high, between 6.5 and 6.9%. However, when we talk about the budget, there are certain dilemmas and questions that we do not really have an answer to. The question of how unpaid the debts of budgetary users are, which are not recorded through the expenditure side and the continued state audit, says that not all commitments have been recorded through the budget and in this report annexed to this budget for 2009. We don't have an answer to how many of those 11.5 billion kunas that have been recorded, and they're not charged because companies are blocked, how many non-refundable claims are made. What is the potential deficit in the coming years because it will come at the collection of guarantees, especially those relating to shipbuilding, as it is known that this will have to be paid to the maximum extent from the state budget. That's why we have published some of our proposals in the SDP these days, because we think that the expectations of the government's measures will not actually be the ones that should trigger economic growth. We believe that when talking about this segment of tax reform, it is actually necessary to reduce the tax burden of gross labour prices through reduction of contributions, to eliminate the largest part or to reduce those 250 listed non-taxable incomes that were numbered almost two years ago, that competitiveness should be stimulated, investors in a way that stimulates those who invest, profit in development or retain profits, so they do not pay dividends, so that tax covers a wider circle of taxpayers, so on property tax, capital gains, etc. These would then be the right measures that could trigger economic growth. Since we had serious objections to the adoption of the 2009 budget, none of the three rebalances were actually changed. We won't give our vote for the annual budget bill either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53914	On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. Unlike the SDP club, the HDZ Club will support the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the 2009 State budget, especially because we must stress that there have never been more difficult circumstances, the economic situation has never been more difficult and that knowledge and effort in this 2009 really needed to prevail. Three rebalancings, we heard that the government intervened with three rebalances aimed at reducing expenditures, but also at increasing revenues. This economic crisis has come from the international environment, although financial malfeasances have been present through economic history long ago, such a systemic form of irresponsibility has not long been recorded in the economic world. Research and evaluations have been carried out in the United States that as many as 30% of all company liquidations and bankruptcys are solely due to robbery and abuse and irresponsibility. There is no different situation in other countries that have suffered the loss of many companies. And in such conditions, and this is best shown by these macro-economic indicators also spoken of by the secretary of state, but also by fellow Zgrebec that negative economic indicators were that the GDP decline was 5.8%, that industrial production fell by 9.2%, that exports fell 20%, that imports fell 25%, that the loss was unemployment, although we must stress that unemployment has indeed reached an intolerable level. But under these most difficult conditions, it is much smaller than in some years when there was no economic crisis. So I'll just point out that she was two, three years in a row and 350, 380 and 390,000 employees, which is considerably more than today when she hasn't known the world for a long time. There were also complaints about foreign debt, so it is important to remember the Mastricht conditions that prescribe how desirable it is for the state to have a share of public debt in the total gross domestic product. Members of the European Union have an average share of 70%. The share of the public debt of the Republic of Croatia in gross domestic product is up to 35%, and including all state guarantees and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development does not exceed 50% again. Otherwise, the particularly difficult factor seen in this proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget is that these were unfavourable movements in the capital market and a high level of volatility of interest rates. The beginning of 2009 was particularly difficult, since at that time there was a high indifference within the financial system when even overnight interest was recorded interbank interest at 34% and the average interest rates of the money market were as high as 18.63%. And in the conditions after the Homeland War, the most difficult for Croatian business banks were aimed exclusively at one goal, which is to achieve as much profit as possible, not retain economic growth and even join selectively in monitoring certain programmes. Under the most difficult conditions, the activity of which Croatia almost lives, which is the tourism of certain banks, did not want to follow this activity with an explanation that they do not lend tourism activity. In such conditions we really needed to get out and finish and achieve the budget, and it was achieved we saw incomes with 99.4%. Recently last week I had the pleasure of leading the delegation of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament to the French Parliament where we attended the session of their Committee on Finance and the State Budget when discussing the situation in Italy and Croatia under a special point of the agenda – the state of economics in Italy and the special point of the economic order in Croatia. We are the only state as the chairman of the Committee of the French Parliament for Finance and the budget that attended the session when it was discussed, so I will just transfer the impressions here to you. And the delegation included members of the opposition and the post. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget in the French Parliament makes 48 senators. They publicly showed all economic indicators in Croatia and publicly praised the stability of the financial system in the Republic of Croatia. They also publicly praised the progress seen in the government's efforts. In particular, they have stressed a change in approach since the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. They also publicly praised all the reforms the government had undertaken. They shared the satisfaction of the new package of measures proposed by the government. They also said that Croatia has met in economic terms all the criteria for entering the European Union and that the biggest reason is the obstacles to the process of negotiating political nature, not economic. They said that Croatia is more financially and economically stable than many EU member states and listed them individually. My colleague Koračević was with me, so... They said we are better than both Greece and Bulgaria and Romania, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, many countries, and they can personally tell me very impressively, especially because France has shown that it is an economic power. [[You don't understand.]] The economic crisis that has hit the whole world they have had the strongest resistance to the crisis, in the most effective way, had a decline in gross domestic product of only 1%, and have already come out of the crisis, have increased economic activity. But what I would personally like to point out is the highlighted two reasons that can keep us and prevent us from leaving the economic crisis faster, and these two reasons are that they listed an insufficient level of credit activity of business banks in the Republic of Croatia and extremely high interest rates. This is what we heard in the French Parliament, and this is what very often we mention ourselves, that we will have the biggest obstacle to increasing economic activity and increasing gross domestic product in these two factors. Therefore, the Croatian government should stress the most contributed to the stability of the financial system in the Republic of Croatia, which is a prerequisite for economic development. With concrete measures, the Croatian government saved the banking system in the Republic of Croatia with the highest measure of increasing the security of savings deposits from 100,000 to 400,000 kuna, thus increasing savings without that measure then there would be a collapse of the financial system. And then, given that the interest rates started to grow, and at one point I would dare to say and to go wild, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed and the decision was made to cut the premiums of the State Bank for deposit insurance and to resuscitate banks and to secure savings deposits to the business banks so that from 0.5% on two occasions we were reduced and we came to 0.32% of the deposit insurance premium rate, to allow banks to have room to reduce interest rates, and not to act in this direction, but instead to unilaterally break the contracts, change the terms of the contract for already paid credits, approved loans, raise interest rates, increase interest rates for newly authorised ones, introduce new fees and increase the already old fees. Therefore, after this extremely valuable division of experience with senators from the French Parliament, we should also conclude and order business banks in Croatia that, in addition to promoting and respecting individual interests, they need business activities and raise what they need to respect and extend social interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53916	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. And now on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53917	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This report on the implementation of the State budget in 2009 is one common point with the usual debate and the usual conclusions and almost certainly next year the same story again, and again the same story until one change occurs, a change called elections, and a completely different approach to the formation of the Republic of Croatia's budget, and spending the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that when the 2009 budget was adopted was debated in this Croatian Parliament and the fact that we from the opposition were very clear, not only of us but also of employers' associations, the economy, almost all except those interested groups that were still able to afford their rent, I will call it rent, we had very concrete remarks, we warned about the global crisis, we warned about the vulnerability of our economy, which has been going on for many years since yesterday, and primarily because of its inaction, we warned about the near need of budget rebalances and soon there was a new budget rebalance, so behind it another one, and that is the last of July of last year, which we are talking about today at this point. And the fact is that in these three rebalancings that happened last year only in that first rebalancing, while Prime Minister Sanader, that only in that first budget was made that radical cut, the reduced consumption of the circus 6 billion, and this second one was all about the same level, with a little cosmetic, take here, put it there, but in a global story it became, the whole story was still the same. Every rebalancing by definition is a questionable ability, I will not say incompetence, but I will say the government's questionable ability to realistically plan revenue and expenditure in that budget and it is important to stress that the budget gives, regardless of whether it is a budget, whether it is a budget rebalancing, but that it should have allowed the economy, that it must give the economy space to function, especially in this situation that it can breathe and get this country out of crisis, exclusively and I will not say anything, and it is known almost everyone that the new value is that it gives room for planning a concrete future, that without new value that future is questionable, I will not say or will not mention at all or compare to the situation in Greece, but that we are in the problems of happiness far less milder problems than Greece, and completely fellow Marić when he mentioned the views of our hosts in the French Senate attitudes and analysis which they have made to the situation of our economy, certainly the rightly speaking, and at the moment that we are not necessarily tellinging that we are not necessarily the right of the things, and that we are true, and that we are not necessarily talking, and that we are not necessarily, at the right of the time, and that we are not necessarily, and that we are going to be able to be able to be able to be able to resolve, and we are able to do, in the right, and we are able to do, and we are able to make the right to make the right to do to make the right to do the right to do the right to do the right to do the right to do the right of the right of the right to do, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the matter, and to do, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right to do, and the right of the right, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right time, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right time, and the right time, and the right of the right of the right of the right time, and the right of the right of the right time, and the right time, and the right of the right of the right time, and the right of the It is an interest of the position and interest of the opposition and at the moment when we realize it realistically and when we talk about it without a figure in our pocket, we will be useful, we will be useful in our discussions in the Croatian Parliament because all discussions so far on the subject of the budget, the budget rebalancing on the subject of budget execution, always ended with each other's accusations, always ending with the mention of guilt, always gathered four years of coalition authorities that were the cause of everything, and it was forgotten on the other hand that HDZ was acting three times longer than the coalition government. Therefore, in this entire system it is not now and I do not want to put in relation to the charges on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Persons at all, but I would like to encourage and initiate our joint responsibility in the quality of the debate, above all in the adoption of the budget, because in this point I doubt that there will be readiness and strength to talk about certain things openly but it is almost certainly necessary and necessary. The fact is, we're simply not going to say incompetence, but because of past work when we've provided many privileged groups with peace and security within the state budget, the fact that we've put ourselves in a position to finally withdraw certain cuts. The fact that we've been rather generous to the best years of economic growth, that all of this has resulted in a new borrowing, an increase in debt, a sum of 320 thousand unemployed, 80,000 working people, and no pay. That there is a lack of rationalisation of the business of public enterprises, especially those who have a monopoly position. The impact of public enterprises on everyday life, especially on liquidity in this country. We have spoken several times in this House, we from the Croatian People's Party Club have proposed a concrete law. Right when the government came out with these measures and they're exactly the same. However, the Law, the opposition proposal has not passed and the other one is still waiting to be realised by the one in the overall economic recovery measures. I think that we at the Croatian People's Party Club want to particularly underline the importance, when we talk about the report on the implementation of the budget, there is one newspaper that should definitely be commended, and that is to be introduced this year and audit, that we have the opportunity to read and review. However, the revision speaks of the respect of the procedure, saying whether there were irregularities or there were no irregularities. But I think it's about time and we matured institutionally, to talk about the effects that certain budget items had in certain segments. Namely, when we were guests of our colleagues in the French Senate, of those 48 members of their Committee on Finance, each one is in charge of a particular area and there is no way that their finance minister is going with the draft budget, if that member of the Senate Committee on Finance did not agree with the Minister. No theoretical way. Our Committee on Finance, our Parliament, when the budget goes, where we get the information, we read the daily press. All of us. And the Finance Committee and all the MPs in the Parliament, I'm asking you, are we, perhaps you at the HDZ Club have that privilege but I assure you, the rest of us don't have that. When the budget and budget rebalance goes to the Parliament debate, we read the basic information on this budget from the daily press. Which is good, at least. When there's no other way. But I repeat, there is no theoretical chance that the French minister is going with his budget in the Senate if certain items are not agreed with an individual member of their Committee on Finance in charge of this area and following that and the support of the Committee on Finance, only then does it go public, only then does it go into debate. The second thing that has particularly impressed me, every member of the Committee on Finance, has the right, does not have the right to control during the year the implementation of the state budget for the area for which he is in charge and, in the event of a need, he employs the institutions of the system, whether it is an audit of whether it is someone else, without discussion and there is no way that he is asking his party president, prime minister, prime minister or anyone if I can. Now that's one responsible society, which is responsible for taxpayers' money, when and at what point we're going to get to that level in our country, I don't think any of us have an answer. I'm sure every single one of us wants it to be as soon as possible. But today, you are representatives of the ruling, tomorrow I am almost certain, this side, but the obligation of each of us, whether you are ruling, whether you are an opposition, we only have the electoral legitimacy and dignity of the Croatian Parliament right on the budget, on these items which determine the future of our citizens, the conditions of life of our citizens, the conditions of business of our citizens. Definitely our personal obligation. It doesn't matter if we see it, we don't see it, it's gonna be them. It's our common problem and it's our shared obligation. And I think we have such a built-up system, a system of responsibility I think our state finances would look quite different and certain that something that's happening now these days, and that's that we have increased taxes that during 2009, we were literally drawn capital from the market at the expense of the economy and to save public finances. The fact that public investments have been suspended, the fact that we still have to boost the non-payment chain, but also the fact that it's not good that with these theatre arrests it's blocked making decisions in the state administration and public enterprises. Who is responsible for state administrations, which of those responsible in public enterprises is now ready to make a business decision? No one. Who created that? One atmosphere. Is that atmosphere correct? If there was a finger in the jam, it was. You don't have to hide it. Therefore, my colleagues and colleagues at the Croatian People's Party Club and Retirement Party read this report as something that is common, but we would like to say that a completely different concept of budget is necessary, a different way of thinking budgets, not just redistributed by items plus tax reach in citizens' pockets. and we believe that it is necessary and finally, as once said in the name of the Croatian People's Party club, that the government has no right to act as the reverse Robin Hood, which is to take the poor and give the privileged. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners are normally not able and we simply cannot support this report because we did not support either the budget or all the rebalancing. But we simply want that in this recent budget rebalancing that is definitely following us and that will be the control point, which will be the control point of the programme of the economic programme, the economic recovery announced by the prime minister. We have two checkpoints. The first checkpoint is now 1. 6th is whether public undertakings will fulfil their obligations as announced here by 5, 10. Whether it was at the level of the letter of intent, at the level of the brooch or the actual concrete measure. The second is definitely whether it's the end of the 6th month or whether it's the end of the 7th month or not, it's a good thing it's done as soon as possible. The new rebalancing we'll see if it really meant serious in accordance with that slide show and in line with the Power Point presentations we had the opportunity to see. And we think that we simply need to move from the economy of savings, restrictions, that we need to create budget conditions for the economy of growth and the economy of creating a new value.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53918	And the last application on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53919	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here's the secretary of state. We heard some numbers. So this is how our budget's revenue is 110.2 billion kuna, which is what 60 billion kuna should be taxed on, the profit tax here is 9.4 billion kuna that the state has taken from local self-government, not counting mountainous areas or areas of special state concern. VAT 37 billion kuna, meaning about 3 billion per month, oil excise duties 3.2 billion kuna if it pays INA, excise duties on cigarettes 3 billion and 73 million kuna with a guaranteed monopoly of one company, contributions from the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance 18.2 billion kuna, contributions from MORH 19.8 billion kuna. It takes 35 billion kunas before we talked about how much it takes for pensions. Then 626 million kuna concessions. But for a moment, I'll only stay at the penitentiary. From the penalty of the state, 515 million kuna, out of the customs fines of 72 million kuna, was paid to foreign exchange transfers of 5.8 million kuna, tax fines 36.3 million kuna, penalties for commercial offences of 63.7 million kuna. But that's why the brother police work at night, by day they charged you know how many 249 million kunas. That's income. It's a walk. For wages comes from the state budget of 22.5 million kuna, for material expenditures of 8 billion kuna, expenditure on services of 4.5 billion kuna. What kind of favors? In front of 300,000 employees, so to speak. Subsidy 6.7 billion kuna, compensation to citizens of households 64.5 billion kuna. This is part of the revenue, or expenditure. And now on page 404 just to read a few more figures of this macroeconomic environment in 2009. Let's just say that first, domestic gross product per capita was reduced from 10 thousand 700 euros in 2008 to 10 thousand 200 euros in 2009. Minus 500 euros. Gross domestic product -5.8%, industrial production -9.2% in the 4th month fell from the 4th month to 6.6% more. Trade at a little -15.3% tourist overnight, we were good, all right -1.4%. Construction index - 6.5%. What was a frightening number of employees in 2008 was a million 544 thousand, and in 2009. - Ninety-four thousand. One million 450 thousand, 94 thousand people are de facto out of work last year or retired or working on black doesn't matter, but that's how much insurance is less. Exports of goods -20%, imports of goods -25%, balance of current accounts doesn't mean much to people. The foreign debt went up from 39.9 billion to 44.9 billion or 45 billion kuna. That's just some official figures to talk about. Maybe those numbers don't mean much to an ordinary citizen. Our citizens only know that they live worse. They know they won't get better in 2010. I dare say they despise them, at last it's a lie, that a million 580 thousand employees of 1. 7. have bigger salaries. God forbid it's like that, but it just doesn't hold water. The average citizen in this country loses his regression in 2010, he loses his Christmas card. He's already lost a free ride for his kids who go to school, free books, health care gets more expensive, loses partial disability. Today we were talking about 187,000 people, not just 505 officials to understand each other, losing part of their pension. Everything will be more expensive. It collects electricity that announces the addition of 13.7% etc., etc., I said industrial production falls rapidly. And in 2010, what's worst will continue and job loss, so it's no wonder that the prime minister's advisors indicate that another 50,000 jobs could be lost this year, so I dare conclude that it would be Vazam 2011. Croatia could have about 370,000 unemployed. Clearly, I forgot to say that citizens lose tax returns, many companies will lose subsidies, support, investments will be less what, clearly, affects general consumption and so on. After the 2011 Vazma season, I guess some recovery will follow, but the point is that Croatia is in serious problems, no one hides it anymore, and that no government measures that in any way are lacmus paper for naive simply can give results in years ahead of us. Look, at the beginning of the 5th month, I like to mention these figures, the prime minister indicated that the growth of industrial production for the first three months compared to the first three months of 2009, was 0.3% higher, but in the first quarter of this year, industrial production fell by 6.6% compared to the same period last year, which will say that we are coat and what is true. Now, should Croatia be looking forward to at some point in some deceptive growth of something that immediately immediately after that cancels April or May or should we fear the loss of 94 thousand jobs in 2009, if this official information is to be trusted by the Ministry of Finance. Is it necessary to applaud, say, the decline in imports, it is a small immediately tax in the state register, it is a smaller economic activity, people are being fired and higher than that, or it should be feared maybe from the decline of the gross social product and in these first few months, and we will not end up with the growth of the year, which will say that, in fact, the data shown from –5.8% should be added to the additional loss in 2010. We boast, for example, now that imports are publicly covered by exports which are now 59.6% and one Buzet with 6 thousand inhabitants watch twice as much exports as Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The retail trade fell in March as compared to 2009. True, this decline is smaller than the previous months but it is still less by 2.2% and which means, in 2009, all the parameters crashed and it fell apart, and in 2010, the grog of these parameters continued and fell. Mr. Maric just said that local self-government has de facto not given up any budget revenue. However, I would dare say that this government intends to recover the de facto of the Republic of Croatia, which is impossible, to transfer to local self-government. Why? Here we have contributions that need to be corrected. We used to have rates 15, 25, 35, 45%, now we're going up to proposal 12, 25, 40%. I also welcome the introduction of a 50% rate if it is more than 25 thousand net kuna salaries, but if tax relief is lifted on one side, for example. to treatment, interest on housing loans, will fail construction, will fail additional health insurance. The highest will be the mountain-mounted areas, i.e. the mountain-mounted areas. areas of special state concern, which will say that de facto Government is trying to transfer that policy to local self-government. Can local self-government run the Republic of Croatia? So if you had revenues as government certainly yes, but when in a rudely centralised state such as the Republic of Croatia where 83.09% of the budget is waste to the state budget, units of local self-government stand in these 560 municipalities, cities have 9.23%, 20 counties have 9.57% of that mass, the City of Zagreb 5.1%. These are the 2008 data, though. So, with the control of the public HEP, the Croatian Railway system, the state controls at least 90 maybe 95% of public revenues, brings all the laws and therefore it is difficult to believe that such measures could in any way help the recovery of the Republic of Croatia more significantly. I personally believe that when he spoke about the opportunities in 2010 the closest truth was Governor Rohatinski, who in Opatija on 12.4. of this year literally said that Croatia today in the survival phase, I quote: "the country lives on appliances, follows one if not quite disastrous then a faceless year, we have no reason for optimism, the government has no power or motive to start changing things, we just know it and the only comfort," Rohatinski concludes, "is what the state is not or that Croatia is not Greece". What are others doing while the state transfers the burden to Croatian local self-government? Other countries in the world are reducing their own incomes, for example In the UK, that country reduced VAT from 17.5% to 15% to boost consumption, to take the burden of recovery upon itself. I said, we're being transferred to local self-government. Belgium has reduced VAT for the cost of building new housing from 21% to 6% plus the delay in paying VAT to those who want to simply build. Finland has reduced VAT for all food products from 17% to 12%. I suggest that domestic food is taxed at a lower rate, and not 23% of France has reduced VAT for hospitality from 19.6% to 5.5% in order to increase employment, and we actually have some thinking that we should also raise what I know, let's say the VAT might be 24%. If VAT was reduced to food and other products, it might be discussed if they had differentiated rates. But this way, gentlemen, the situation is truly absurd. How the state financed billions of kunas. Two thousand watch out for the sixth, we're in debt over 9 billion kuna loans, and this year in 2010, we have to do 28.5 billion kuna. Last year, we had to rebalance the budget from the sale of shares and shares, to pay off the loan to allocate 11 billion kuna. This year we will have to allocate 20.1 or nearly two billion kuna, which will say that even this economic programme certainly cannot help Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, I don't have time to talk about shipbuilding, but it's clear that today the state is trying to save on local self-government through those mentioned contributions, through a memorial rent, through a communal fee. The government's talking about the burden she's taking, and actually the burden is being transferred to local self-government. This morning we talked about pensions all the time. We have about a million today and 400 don't take my word for 30,000 insurance. So, the ones who pay the contributions. We have a million 170 and a few thousand pensioners. This ratio is below 1:1.29 and in this country it will hardly change opportunities in this area so I personally expect a relatively serious rebalancing. Maybe even a rebalancing at the end of the year, but I'm sure the change in the serious in this country won't happen until this team gets off the horse that just doesn't see their horse drop. At last, from the age of 20, how long this horse had been riding by a team in power for 16 years, another four years, and it is clear that those who sat on it the longest and the most responsible for the occasion in this country were. All in all, to conclude with this sentence, we didn't support the budget. It is clear that we cannot support even rebalancing, although I agree that at this point no one would want to be in the skin of those who have to make serious political decisions on how to save the country under quotes to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53920	Thank you. Here we heard the riding schedule, the only thing we didn't hear was who was feeding them and who was cutting them down. But that's why we have one application for correction of the allegations, a distinguished colleague representing Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. No matter what we've heard from colleagues Cain as well as otherwise meaningful and sometimes pointless. I'll correct an incorrect quote when he told his colleague that the local self-government had not given up any of its income. First of all, colleagues of Cain to give up local self-government as a city from which I come where the 0% cut for the people of the town of Pakrac, unlike the units of local self-government from which you come from rich Istria, thank God rich Istria for which I don't know any of the municipalities or the city that has not introduced the cut. And units of local self-government that have something to give up in the area to increase the consumption and standards of citizens. And a special story is the city of Zagreb, which is managed through the Assembly by the SDP, which literally peels its citizens with 18% of VAT, and has not given up any percentage, not one part. Cut, sorry, not VAT, cut. 18% takes their citizens and, of course, is not ready to give up any percentage of the income they collect through the tax from the citizens of the City of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53922	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53923	First of all, someone here has found that Istria is rich. Istria is not rich, but in Istria there may be only a little more work to be done than anywhere else. And finally, I assure you, gentlemen, that 75% of all the municipalities in the County of Istria have not introduced the taxes... Someone's shutting me down again! [[You can't hear the speaker.]] But I'm sure the most appropriate taxpayers in the state are covering exactly the population that is inhabiting those premises.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53924	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. Dear colleague Boris Kunst. We're moving on to an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53925	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. There I am, my colleague Caine, not going to take my word for it, because I think Nostradamus to listen to him would have died once more, since he was a visionary by 2012. Our Caine is a visionary of our future. From 2007 to 2012 you have his visionary so read it. But you're a bigger disasterr. But I may try to talk a little bit about facts, I believe that colleague Cain knows it and how well he knows it. But this is for the public, but unfortunately, television didn't transmit it. The fact is that unfavourable economic movements resulted in a financial crisis that began in the second half of 2008, and culminated in 2009 and we all witnessed it, regardless of what we can now collect political points. But that's a fact, the whole world, Europe is affected by this crisis. Normally, such a situation also reflected our budget revenues that were lower than expected. During 2009, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also had to implement certain changes in the tax system in order to ensure the financing of all public commitments, in particular the payment of salaries, pensions and other social needs in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, this temporary tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts was also introduced and the VAT rate was normally increased from 22% to 23% of the taxation of vessels, aircraft, etc. And in fact, it has now become a subject of opposition criticism which they are constantly criticising, but they have not at any point offered any other solution how to actually finance at speed and public needs and how to provide people with salaries and pensions, in which way, except normally, they criticise that it is not good that these crisis taxes or temporary taxes were introduced which, as we also know, now and ceases to be valid. And thanks to these very taxes, this government decision, the government's activity, has provided most of the funds for payments and for the fact that people received in time and wages and pensions, etc., and normally additional savings have been introduced by the government, and so that at no time did this dynamic payout of salaries, peace and other social benefits have been violated, but very important to stress the following. During this whole period of this financial crisis, no material rights governed by a collective contract for civil servants and subcontractors have been abolished. Certainly, what many speakers have already talked about, that this unfavourable economic movement, that these unfavourable economic movements have been significantly reflected in the labour market, that the number of unemployed has increased by 51,000, so at the end of December, the number mentioned here was 291 thousand 545 unemployed. We must also point out that in this recorded unemployment, people with secondary education have prevailed 61% of the total number of unemployed, the most unemployed, unfortunately from 50 to 54 years of life, means at that age, and somewhere around 40,000 have such persons. Also during 2009, on average 68 thousand 967 unemployed persons or 26.2% of the total number of unemployed were benefiting from a cash fee at the Employment Office. Concerning indicators and the decline of the number of unemployed, which is certainly worrying data and I think that this economic recovery is precisely the government that stimulates employment and logically that this is one measure that is highly acceptable, and this is the fact that 75 thousand workers were actually out of work in early 2009, i.e. the number of employees was reduced compared to December 2009 when there were a thousand 525, million pardons 525 thousand employees, in December there were one million and 450 thousand employees. The number of employees has been drastically reduced in one of the most important activities, which is problematic and this is in the processing industry for more than 17,000 employees, so there are 25,000 employees in the store somewhere. Also, the number of employees decreased in craft somewhere by 17,000 employees. Despite the financial crisis, however, the average salary of a colleague, Caine, did not point out, but those participants of this debate who did not seem to respond to it, increased in 2009, so that the average gross salary for January 2009 was 7000 709 kuna, i.e. the net salary of 5 thousand 307 kuna, while for December that same year, the average gross salary was 7000 783 kuna, i.e. gross, or net 5 thousand 362 kuna. That means the net salary's up. I don't know how drastic, for 55 kuna, but it's not a data that's interesting, it's just what's worst being out here. Pensions were also growing, which would have been good if someone had mentioned it here, and it didn't mention it, so the average pension for January 2009 was 2 thousand 126.73 kuna, with 39.3% net salary stakes, and for December was 2 thousand 169.32 kuna, with 40.28% net salary shares. You see how much, given this crisis year, how much the share of pensions in the net salary has grown after all. The union basket, usually used here for the four-member family and used as a measure of family survival, compared to the cost of living on the one hand and income on the other, was 6 thousand 596 kuna for January 2009, and for February that year it was 6 thousand 603 kuna, while for December 2009, it was 6 thousand 602 kuna. What am I saying? I mean, it was bigger than January for 106 kuna, but compared to February, it's even smaller by one kuna. It is also interesting to monitor citizens' responsibilities during 2009, citizens apparently took this financial crisis seriously and were spared, so that their duty was reduced in late January 2009, when our citizens were in charge of 126,8 billion kuna, and at the end of December the debt was reduced to 123 billion kuna. So nearly 4 billion kunas reduced their debt during 2009. We can consider this even useful in this crisis situation that even though citizens were being spared and in some ways those debts which were consumer loans, etc. Reduced. It is important to stress that consumer prices have also slowed down from 6.1% in 2008, to 2.4% in 2009. However, in 2009, the highest prices increased meat by 4.3% and bread by 3.2%, which was not good anyway. And finally, I have to point out, given these all economic and social problems in 2009 that there are no reduced social rights, but no material rights, any category of citizens, which is very important, and neither are those rights that were agreed by collective agreement. So that's a fact, that's what's positive that the government at no time went to unilaterally break-up of collective agreements, to unilaterally reduce any social or material rights, so it is, after all, a reflection, one more advantage because we had the opportunity to experience that some governments, I think a colleague Cain could remember, unilaterally cut, cut and pay to workers and unrespected collective agreements, which normally cost about 2 billion kuna of budget expenses later, etc., while despite this crisis situation, it never happened. And what to say in the end, it did not happen again in 2009, the year of the general crisis, normally in which the citizens of Croatia suffered a heavy burden. I believe, regardless of these Nostradamus and visionary observations of fellow Cain, that in 2011, we are much better, or that it will be better than the other half of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53926	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, one correction of the quote. First of all, it's a replica of my colleague Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53927	For starters, let me just say that we live in 2010 not in 2011. Apparently, our citizens are not even aware how well they are in the country run by HDZ and now that I hear one more time these citizens are complaining that they are not well. Only gentlemen happy as these gentlemen guide you. Now why did I take my word for it? There's always talk here that I'm a visionary, a visionary maybe I am, a disasterist in no way Mr. Kunst, I'm just real. I was saying in 2008 that we're going to be at the bottom somewhere around 2010, but I'm afraid I wasn't completely right, that I wasn't absolutely realistic, I'm afraid that according to the government's advisors, we're going to be living at the bottom somewhere around 2011 spring. After that, elections will take place and some of the optimism will return to our citizens, and I want to believe that with all the problems the new government will face, that from year to year, with new denials to the citizens, it will still be a little better. At last, in 2009, Mr. Kunst had no job, and there were 75 thousand people left, God forbid it's just that many, but he's out of a job, 94 thousand people. Yes, the average salary may have increased by a kuna or two, but why, because the number of workers has dropped by 94 thousand, and pensions have grown so much that people can't really be happier than that increase. Finally, there are several other good indicators last year. But they are misleading, international reserves have increased by a billion and 200 million kuna, the consumer price index you were talking about in 2008 has increased by 6.1, 2009. 2.4 years, but I remind you that 2010 is not over... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53928	Thank you very much for the reply to the replica of colleague Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53929	Thank you very much. My colleague Caine, you can see that I wasn't wrong when I said that you were a visionary, certainly and that... I'm sorry, it's important that you know what's going to happen in 2011 but you know, citizens aren't that naive. The citizens had a chance to meet you and while you were in power, so I would trust you and your visionary, if you had not yet had the opportunity to be in power, so here is something really new and better to offer. But then you know when you were in the coalition you didn't make a fuss here in the Parliament don't take down 30% of your salaries, don't disrespect collective contracts, give the workers what they agreed on, then you kept your mouth shut. So you're a fake visionary to me. And that's why I didn't say badmouth that Nostradamus would die again if he heard you talking because it had nothing to do with reality. It's what you guys keep saying so disastrously. Watch out, the opposition devisor says, "What's worse for the people, that's better for us." And it's clear to me that it's not in your best interests to make the people better than it is in your best interests to make the people worse, because then you expect to have a better chance of coming to power. But unfortunately, I think you've been read by the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53930	Thank you. Let Nostradamus rest in peace. And we're going to correct the quote of colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53931	So really that man doesn't believe his own ears, half an hour ago there's a law here to cut pensions for those rich people who have 3.5 thousand kuna pensions, who have more than 3.5 thousand declaring them privileged, and counterpart Kunst says this government doesn't touch any material rights. Relieving relief on the purchase of flats and health services is lifted. My colleague Kunst says nothing is lifted. A fellow Kunst also incorrectly stated that the opposition did not give any recipe to get out of the crisis which, otherwise, the theory of the consequences of the reflection has made a very good proposal, which is that this government is finally leaving because it is the biggest generator of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53932	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53933	A colleague, Jurjevic, was injured by Rules of Procedure 209. He obviously stayed from the SDP because there was no one and I thought he was the keeper of the SDP seal here and he listens to what we're saying, but apparently he doesn't listen, he didn't hear what I was saying maybe he slept through, because we were talking about the 2009 budget report, and he's saying something that's happening right now. A fellow item on the agenda is the implementation of the 2009 state budget, this is the topic, let's wake up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53934	Thank you. Replica coworker Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am listening all morning to the debate on both the left and right, so I would rely on a debate from my colleague, Mr Kunst, when he said that it is not good for this government to all be attributed to these crisis years that have come not only to Croatia, but to the whole world, in Europe, and so has Croatia. Of course the opposition has nothing to point at because the opposition is absolutely milky there, even the past, we can call, only one mandate you had a chance to offer the Croatian people something good you say. What you offered the Croatian people when you led the country. You've abolished your family law rights, you've reduced maternity benefits, you've abolished three-year maternity leave, you've reduced your notices, you've reduced your deadlines, you've also reduced your annual vacations, you've cut 30% of your salaries in the state administration. You offered it, you forgot it now, but then there was a completely different situation in Croatia than today, the situation is financial, economic and every other. But you've been doing it and you've forgotten it and you've been doing a show all morning to get in touch with the Croatian people, to get in touch with those most difficult, in this crisis, and not to offer to the government because the government has called you, how in a more painless way to overcome this crisis. If that were all the way, you'd be the first to do what you'd do first. For 10 years you have been in power in the city of Zagreb and the ninth Zagreb with 18% cut. Make that order. You've taken down the gang now you rule absolutely and you do it. Your hands are open waiting for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53936	This is more of a colleague of Jurovic's replica, not a colleague of Kunstu's, but he said he'd respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53937	Well, anyway, listen to her, Mrs. Solic, I wouldn't add anything or take anything away from her. So she listed it all, maybe she missed something, and there was a number of what was happening in that year of wonders when social, labour, and other rights were drastically reduced. But the fact is certain if people watch a little television, read the newspaper then they could probably read that this crisis is all over Europe, and even the whole world, of course that Croatia couldn't remain intact either. But this is for daily political needs, so let's talk about it especially now that television doesn't record us, it doesn't have to. But it would be good, you mentioned good Holding. Today, people don't know how much I hear they're thinking about whether they're getting paid or not. ... It won't, so it should, too, be good when colleagues have spoken as they already speak the present. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53938	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague colleague, Nadica Jelash, also applied for the debate. There's no Nadice losing her right to debate. Later, colleague Vesna Buterin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53939	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are today discussing the implementation of the 2009 budget, in fact a year that has been extremely difficult in economic terms for our country, for the Republic of Croatia but not only for the Republic of Croatia but also for Europe but also for the wider world. At the beginning, although this is already mentioned several times today, I would like to highlight here several important macroeconomic indicators that actually define the macroeconomic environment in Croatia in 2009, and of course those who have determined or had an impact on the budget itself, i.e. on its implementation. So, the financial crisis has led to a 5.8% decline in gross domestic product, a slowdown of 8.2% compared to 2008. When we talk about gross domestic product per capita, it is important to note that it was reduced from 10 thousand 700 euros in 2008 to 10 thousand 200 euros in 2009 to record a drop of 4.2%. All other basic macroeconomic indicators also record their decrease from 2008. Thus, industrial production decreased 9.2%, retail trade decreased by 15.3%, and the number of overnight tourists who stood at 56.3 million in 2009, recorded an annual decline of 1.4%. So, this unfavourable economic movement, of course, was reflected in the 2009 budget revenues, and over the past year the budget has been changed and complemented by a total of three times. It is also important to stress that decisions and laws have been taken in order to balance the budget over the past year to reduce expenditures, which have increased revenues. Thus, through two rebalancings, budget expenditures were reduced by 6.5 billion kuna while the third rebalancing was aimed at increasing budget revenues, primarily through an increase in VAT from 22% to 23% and the introduction of a special income tax, pensions and other receipts, which was already limited at the moment of adoption, and a part of which would be abolished in just over a month. The amendments also took place in non-tax revenue, by introducing a fee for the provision of services for short electronic communications. The total revenue of the budget was thus achieved at 99.4% of the annual plan of 110.6 billion kuna, and compared to 2008 recorded an annual decline of 4.8%. Out of the total revenue, 99.7% of the operating income of HRK 10.3 billion, therefore the most significant point of business income is the 55% tax revenue. Total expenditures were planned at a level of $120.5 billion and were made at $120.2 billion, which is 1.6 billion more than in 2008. This increase is largely due to an increase in remuneration for citizens and households on the basis of insurance, so pensions, unemployment benefits, active employment policies, and health care. The savings that have been spent in all ministries over the past years are primarily aimed at these expenditures, i.e. according to the maintenance of living standards to the most vulnerable groups of the population. So here I would like to say that the fees for citizens and households were the largest amount of expenditure made in the amount of 64 billion kuna, and compared to 2008, it increased by nearly 4 billion kuna. This item includes social benefits, retirement benefits and others. Retirements for pensions in 2009 increased by 1.6 billion kuna, and in 2009 there was increased allocations for rights and social care, further programmes for child care, youth and persons with disabilities compared to the execution of 2008. So, in times of economic crisis, this particular population group is the most sensitive, and it is important to point out that this is why budget allocations are set to increase by 8.1% compared to the previous year. It is also important to stress that, compared to 2008, 14.7% increase in funding and maternity benefits, child benefits and benefits for the unemployed, where total allocated for these purposes is 5.2 billion kuna. In the end, I would like to say, in fact, that this document also shows that regardless of the economic crisis and regardless of the difficulty in filling the budget itself, the government has done everything to protect the most vulnerable, or the most sensitive groups of people and to ensure for them, but also to increase the budget allocations in 2009. That's exactly why I support this budget execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53940	Thank you very much, colleague. Davor Huška, a fellow representative, next applied for an individual hearing. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Secretary of State. Here are a few of my reflections on this report that is ahead of us, the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 which makes it clear to everyone here that there is an extremely difficult economic, financial and therefore budgetary year for us. We know that most of the year was almost impossible to predict far ahead of the economic and economic movements and thus the charging and discharge of the budget. Therefore, in order to bring the budget into line with all of these negative economic trends, the Government implemented three rebalances during 2009 in a way that two budget rebalances were aimed at reducing budget expenditure by 6.5 billion kuna, resulting in an increase in budget revenue, primarily through an increase in the value added tax rate of 22% to 23% and the introduction of a time-limited tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts. It is good that total revenues and total expenditures are planned precisely, in particular by third rebalancing because a more significant deviation from the plan would have further consequences on the uncontrolled disproportionateness and growth of the deficit, and according to this report it is evident that, with all problems, filling and discharge of the budget remains under the control of the Ministry of Finance, although some colleagues in the opposition ranks have predicted the exact opposite. The total expenditure of the 2009 state budget was planned at the level of $120.5 billion, and was made at $120.2 billion, which is more than the previous year for 1.6 billion. This increase occurred primarily due to the increase in remuneration for citizens and households based on the provision of pension funds, unemployment benefits, active employment policies and health care, as well as the increase in financial expenditure due to the higher capital price in the financial markets. The total shortfall of a consolidated general state in 2009 was achieved at 10.7 billion kuna or at 3.2 gross domestic product level, which is for, I'll just say, 0.3 percentage points higher than the planned deficit. The main deficit of 2.9% of gross domestic product was recorded at the level of the state budget, while at unit level local and regional (regional) self-government achieved 0.3% of gross domestic product and in the case of extra-profit users 0.005 GDP. The 3.2% deficit is well below the EU average, which marks the average in 2009 of 6.6% and some member states, for example, Ireland, over 14% of the deficits in 2009. They commented here on colleagues and guarantees that are not in the deficit, e.g. Shipbuilding guarantees. It should be said that interest is included in this deficit, and if the principals are added to the guarantees, the deficit would be 4%. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the presentation of my colleague Marić on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club where it was pleasant to listen to his presentation on the impressions of French parliamentarians, of course our members of the Committee on Finance and Budgets who attended the French Parliament debate on Croatia, and I must admit that I am somewhat surprised by their views. French Parliamentarian on the behaviour of commercial banks in Croatia in these times of crisis because these are mostly European prominent banks, i.e. their banks... branches whose behaviour should not be so far removed from their home banks in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I would like to say that I fully accept the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 and that it is excellent that for the first time we have the Annual report on the implementation and the report on the audit of the Annual Report, which gives one competence, legality to materials obtained from the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53942	Thank you very much. We have a report of a replica. Dear fellow MP Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53943	A colleague of Huška, of course financial institutions and also banks are one of the most important segments of the entire economic activity, but they are also, has shown history of economic, very often the most irresponsible, arrogant and greedy segment of the entire economic activity. They caused many black days, the black Monday of October 19, 1987, the black Tuesday of October 29, 1929, when all the markets fell. The Black Wednesday belongs to the UK on 9 September1992 when the pound had to leave the exchange rate mechanism. Black Thursday is also October 24th, '29. The first day all the markets started to fall. But the latest behavior of financial institutions and banks doesn't produce any more black days, they produce black years and black years are created. In 2009, it's a black year, and I'm afraid there will be others. However, no bank administration, and in Croatia in particular, has given up its high wages. Today you can read in the Morning List where in hundreds of thousands of fees are paid monthly to bank administrations, you have not given up bonuses, privileges, monden social gatherings by sailboats, ski resorts, Formula 1 races and the like. And then no wonder in the economic world these bankers even call them bankers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53944	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53945	Thank you. A colleague, really one black exposure, but we believe in some brighter days, and I can say that I believe that banks profited in these moments in the short term, in the long run, I don't think they did the best job. And when you talk about giving up some of their receipts here, I have this great experience, and I've been working at the bank for a while. When I started working at that branch, I was 55 employees. Over the years, in the first, second, the third round of banks reduces the number of employees, i.e. that branch reduces the number of employees, and the bank literally gave up 30 employees. There are more than 20 of them today. They're doing the same, or more jobs. Of course the profit is far higher. Here's when we talk about giving up may be bankers, members of the administration haven't given up their fees, but they've given up, they've given up employees and the current employees know very well what conditions they're working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53946	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Col. Branko Bačić, next reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State... Dear colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here I will look back in a few words at the 2009 report on the implementation of the 2009 annual budget marked by the reduction of economic activity and adverse economic indicators and conditions in which it went past and past 2009, not only in Croatia, but also in the world, which was caused as we have heard so many times and said to the big first financial then and economic crisis in the world at the end of 2008 and in early 2009. Clearly, due to such unfavourable economic indicators, the reduction in economic activity resulted in a reduction in the resources of the state budget. And therefore, the Croatian government was forced to rebalance the budget three times last 2009 and, as the fellow secretary of state said in relation to the budget plan adopted at the end of 2008, total reduced revenues for around 7 billion kuna, so that the third budget rebalance, i.e. the second budget rebalance in July, increased revenues by around 2 billion kuna and that this increase occurred as a result of changes in the tax system in the Republic of Croatia. When Mrs. Zgrebec spoke on behalf of the SDP club about the moment, so when we brought rebalancing and when, as a consequence of this rebalancing, there was a rise in certain taxes in the Republic of Croatia, she said that few governments in the world, including in Europe at those times, are reaching for higher taxes. Because it also has an additional impact on reduced consumption by then, so the SDP disagreed with the introduction of new taxes. I'd just like to remind you, I didn't want to correct the incorrect allegations at the time, but I would like to remind Mrs. Zgrebec that at the same time, the SDP club and some economic experts in the SDP have also proposed introducing new taxes. So capital gains tax, tax hikes even on interest, property tax, etc. etc. So it's not true that you didn't propose certain changes in the tax system at the time. So I think there were two possibilities. Therefore, or further reduce expenditure in the state budget or increase revenues from the point of view, thus also with the possibility of increasing certain taxes. I am holding today with one step away from that 2009 that the government did the right thing then by introducing the tax, because it preserved macroeconomic stability in the state and because it regulated public finances. And what is not less important is that pensions and salaries of all public sector employees are paid regularly almost in the day, and that there has been no reduction in any social rights in 2009, that there has been no reduction in salaries for public sector employees and there has been no reduction in pensions. But what I still want to say and it is not true, therefore, that no government in Europe or in the world in those times has sown for tax changes and tax hikes. Even some countries in our environment were also in a similar situation to raise taxes, for example, the neighbouring country of the Republic of Slovenia. But what has been done with these rebalances, so macroeconomic stability has been achieved on the one hand. But on the other hand, the goal was to ensure that Croatia regulates its public finances, that there was no increase in the deficit of the state budget or that there was no significant increase in the deficit of the state budget, which suggests that the government had done the right thing at the time. Not to speak, therefore, that the crisis tax introduced with the aim of allowing the distribution of funds in such a way that it takes more for those citizens of a richer and better asset situation to redistribute to those who have less and thus clearly retain that constitutional principle of social equality and justice. But that is what I am talking about, and I have already said many times, and the Constitutional Court gave its own right when it said, therefore, that the introduction of a crisis tax was a legitimate goal of the Croatian government to preserve on the one hand macroeconomic economic stability in the state, and therefore to enable, on the other hand, the normal payment of both salaries to employees and pensions that were at the time when the third rebalancing of the state budget was adopted. So that's on one side. On the other hand, the three rebalances of the state budget allow Croatia to position itself on the world market, on the European market as a state-of-the-art public finances. That's what Mr. Secretary of State said on several occasions, so it was also shown through bond placement on the world market. So, that the world believes in Croatia, that Croatia is capable of self-organising its finances, and that I believe that you agree with me that it is not the case in countries that are now members of the European Union and that are going where and where the bigger crisis is and where the Republic of Croatia is with its finances where and where the difficult situation is. So I was pleased to hear from my colleague Marić in his opening part on behalf of the club when he spoke his knowledge and everything he heard in the French Parliament when the French Parliamentary Committee on Finance and Budget, or his president, spoke commendably about all the measures of the Croatian Government, the finances in the Republic of Croatia, the state of the budget in the Republic of Croatia, and thus confirmed everything that I now want to say and everything that we in the Croatian Democratic Community club want to highlight in this regard. However, all of this allowed the Croatian government today to come up with a programme of economic development, with a programme of economic recovery, and through these measures economic recovery was practically abolished in the crisis tax rates before they were established by the adoption of the crisis tax themselves, which was therefore on 31 December 2009. So through the rebalancing of the state budget, through everything that was done last year, through all those measures that were adopted by the Croatian government in the meantime, it was possible that the crisis tax that caused significant divisions in the Croatian public would also be abolished on July 1st, and the second rate of 4% was abolished on November 1st. And therefore, clearly through a series of measures that will already be implemented in this year, which form an integral part of the economic recovery programme, it is clear that already all Croatian employees, all Croatian citizens, will feel in a certain way the credits resulting from the economic programme itself, not to say that by the end of the year, for example, Croatian workers, who have an average salary of 4 thousand kuna, only these measures already have an increase in salaries of 170 kuna, in one part due to the reduction of that first rate of income tax, and in the second part due to the temporary suspension of taxes, therefore this crisis tax. We can also read through a number of other measures, therefore, that all those steps taken during 2009 have made it possible for these measures, and on the other hand not less important, but more importantly, that public finances have been stabilised and that neither salaries nor pensions in 2009, nor those other social rights linked to the state budget, and which are financed from the state budget have been abolished, but have not been reduced. Therefore, clearly I support this report on the implementation of the 2009 state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53948	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First, my colleague Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53949	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, that the SDP has proposed a different tax burden schedule for citizens. What is now our biggest problem in the budget revenues relating to the tax is precisely those taxes which are on consumption and on the income of employees and pensioners in these years of the last so-called through this special income tax. They reduce purchasing power at a time when you have a drop in production and you reduce purchasing power, you haven't actually done anything. Indeed, some countries have introduced a higher VAT rate, and they have introduced that additional tax, so after 2 months, it was abolished because they saw that it had no effect. We keep saying let it go, even if it doesn't have any effect. You know, the problem is in Croatia's tax system because it has a different structure of tax revenues than its entire environment. Ours are dominant taxes, taxes on personal consumption, so VAT, excise duties. At a high level of price, gross labour prices that are very high for our economy, but are low in net incomes and that is the problem when taxing additionally. We have below average tax gains from assets, we have no taxes at all, or a very symbolic tax and it's only in property sales. We don't tax. We've got some kind of paratax, too, so-called. A communal fee that remains socialism and we've been doing nothing for 20 years. We don't have or have below average representation of other taxes. While other countries are reducing spending taxes to stimulate the consumption of their citizens, we are increasing in mass and not covering some other tax revenues, therefore from assets, from capital, from income from non-capital capital, from non-functional assets, etc. Yeah, I said we did propose, but new taxes, not that are already too suffocating and budget citizens, but also costs... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53950	Thank you. Thank you very much. A reply to Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you see, Mrs. Zgrebec, I was going to say that it's not exactly what you said in the introduction, when you spoke on behalf of the club, which is that none of the governments, and that it's not good, and that's not exactly what you said, so it's not good at those times that reduced consumption to introduce any new taxes that will further contribute to reduced consumption, and then directly to a lower amount of funds in the state budget, but that it's true that you've also proposed certain taxes on what we didn't agree at the time. Then in 2009, the quantity of these funds, which you have proposed, was absolutely not enough to meet the needs of the state budget in the wage section, in the section relating to pensions and all those resources in the state budget that are already pre-set and allocated to end-users of the state budget. Therefore, these types of taxes that you have proposed could not be met by the short-term measures that have been met by the introduction of the crisis tax, and which have been met by the change in value added tax, because these revenues are very quickly returned to the state budget and their amount allows the orderly service of all those needs arising from all those users who are dependent on the state budget. And the other thing, therefore, about many of the taxes that you mentioned earlier, the Croatian government did not say that over a longer period they will not think about them and I think that certain taxes and changes in the tax system are already linked to the economic recovery programme, therefore there are also several times the Minister of Finance, the possibility of getting into different treatment of the property tax, but that at this point, when the measures you proposed were spotlessly and quickly, and this was the introduction of the new tax proposed by the SDP was not sufficient and a sure guarantee that the state budget would be able to normally be implemented by the end of 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53952	Thank you. Second replica, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53953	My colleague Bačić, I must refer to, once again, the events in the French Parliament when the special rapporteur of their finance and state budget committee praised and said in a special report on the state of the economic situation in Croatia that the only serious package of measures had been taken by the government since '90. to date economic measures since President Kosor is Prime Minister. That it's the most serious package of measures. But they also pointed out that, especially for me, it was a pleasure to hear that because they said the problems that have been holding you back are the ones that you talk about in the House often, that employers have abused the crisis and that they have fired more people than they should have been 3.7% of the unemployment rate, and the maximum... In law and economic legality, it could be 2.9. [[You don't understand.]] Almost 1% is the result of abuse. Also, banks do not behave in Croatia in terms of both economic development and breakthrough, but rather have low credit activity and high interest rates both active and passive. And in their incomes, here we can read here today that 90 thousand kuna is net monthly income, that's not true. If the annual net income here is divided by 12, then it amounts to 400,000 kuna net. In Croatia as the singers behave and think that the sun is rising because of their cooking, so in Croatia, bankers think that both economic activity and state should exist only because of banks and because of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53954	Thank you, colleague Maric. Reply to the replica of counterpart Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with my colleague, Marić, with everything you have said on behalf of the Club and on behalf of the club, and also with what you have now completed mainly in the section in which you have talked about the participation of the banking system or business banks in overcoming the crisis that is in the Republic of Croatia. And I especially must say that I have now listened to the part in which you have spoken about everything that the President and your colleague, the President of the Committee on Finance, spoke about the French Parliament's budget on the measures of the Croatian Government and I agree that he has actually confirmed what the International Monetary Fund and the Croatian National Bank and the World Bank and all relevant financial institutions have said about the programme of economic recovery made up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And if that were not the case, it would probably not have been this last foreign policy tour of the Prime Minister's office so successful if it had been practically in all the capitals of Europe, even yesterday in Washington to receive praise for the programme designed at the level of the Croatian government and for whose implementation it itself assumed personal responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53956	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of the distinguished colleague Marija Lugaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53957	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I always regret this debate about the implementation of a state budget that so does not take the attention and which I think should be given to representatives and advocates in the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, with the adoption of the Law and in some way control of their implementation one of the important tasks that we have as representatives is to adopt a state budget as well as to control the very spending of money from the state budget and whether what we voted on in the state budget has just been spent in the way that was meant and the intentions for which it was planned. In the debate, I'd like to say a quick word about three things. First of all, I think that we have as representatives and as a Parliament, an almost substantiative problem with the Budget Law, or specifically its provision, which says that despite our Constitution, it is the Croatian Parliament that makes the state budget that can make its decisions to redistribute the budget. If these government decisions on redistribution of the budget were to be kept within the division, another man would say, well, let's not exactly plan everything, especially at this level at which we plan our budget. However, the government has the right to move funds amongst divisions. To us, the Ministry, votes x million kuna, at the end of the year in execution he has x plus 10 because the government added ten or took five or did such things to him in rebalancing. So I, colleagues and colleagues, suggest that since the budget that we have voted on is such a rather fluid document and actually the Government can do what it wants with it, to use the simple change of the Constitution now and to say that the government is making a budget, when and anyway with that budget it does what it wants, voted me or did not vote me, one or another. He just does what he wants with him. So in this context, any debate on the implementation of this budget is somewhat and pointless. Because on the one hand, I'm saying an amendment to everything that we've voted for, and on the other hand, those redistribution decisions are all coming out at the end of the year, so I'm saying that these indices are good and that it all looks very good to us in terms of this indexation. For us, the Ministry of Education and Science, not for this 2009 which we are talking about, but rather for 2008 there were 4 redistributions in the 12th month in order to list all figures, and the figures are settled neatly and I don't know why we allowed the Government to actually change the decisions of the Croatian Parliament. Another thing I want to talk about here, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary's reply to the report on the use of the budget. According to the Budget Act, the budget stock is used for unforeseen expenditure which could not have been planned, which is known to have never occurred before, or for elemental disasters, disasters and similar things. My colleagues and colleagues, did you look at the report on the use of the budget stock? Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to tell us the criteria for using the budget stock. For example, a sporting event that was known for a year and a half to happen will be one million and 500 thousand kunas from the budget stock. Don't tell me something that there's been a promotional campaign for a year and a half that's an unforeseen cost. An unexpected event. It's one to say so by one type of people who are users of the funds of the budget stock. The other guy's a community. Units of local self-government, community of this, municipality of her. And that I would like to ask you what explanation, the realization of the projects that have been launched, and the ongoing business. For the financing of unforeseen expenditures and please, this is the provision of necessary functions from its district. Excuse me, if the municipality cannot finance the necessary functions from the section should not be the municipalities. Or I don't know, so that's almost a third of the use of budget funds and the third type are some associations, some minority communities, have the privilege of not having to report to public tenders like some others. Excuse me, you can't tell me that the NGO gets almost a million kuna from the budget stock for regular business and the other 100,000 associations in the Republic of Croatia don't get it, why this one gets it, others aren't, regular business, not projectual. Or I don't know a minority community. Forgive the funding of the communities of national minorities is known how it works and how it is known to be written in the budget and thus should be done in a transparent manner. If someone were to interpret the report on the use of the budget stock, they'd say the government was buying this group's favor on occasion. Simply, the budget stock for this cannot be served I ask you what are the criteria for these particularly municipalities and certain NGOs for regular business, not projectually, giving funds from the budget stock, for which, according to the budget law, they must be used for unforeseen or elemental disasters. Another example. The performance of Croatian athletes at the Winter Olympics 4 million kunas. This really needs to be financed by the state. Our athletes are supposed to be there, but don't tell me that the performance of Croatian athletes at the Olympic Games isn't an expected expenditure, we didn't know the unforeseen activity was going to the Olympics and that the Olympics were being held. A neatly this item of financing the participation of Croatian athletes in the Olympic Games exists in the very budget in the division of the Ministry of Education. There, in some rebalancing way, we take down the government's special decision, and then they get it from the budget stock. So if you need to and should give them the money, let's put it in the budget right now so it's not really up to the government's mercy or mercilessness, so who knows what account the money's going to get or won't get. So please really respond to these criteria. And the third thing I want to talk about is the implementation of the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, it seems to me that you can talk about budgeting in many other such ministries. The only item, the only conto which the budget has been transferred to with the 130 index, is the interest you received from banks and other financial institutions outside the public sector. What does that mean? That means we signed some loans without having projects to spend that money on. Then we're paying for the penalties for the unpunished loans. I'm sorry, in the recession year, we don't have enough luxury to do that, and that increases by 30%. I mean, your order is 68 million, so we're not talking about 100 or 200 or 500 thousand kuna. Because we haven't made any projects, so we're paying the penalty on the undrawn loan of 12 million from the banks in the recession year where everything is being saved. You have a counter example. The only user inside that division of education and science that spent 45% of what was intended and planned for it. So he failed to say so is the Professional Education Agency. And that's something where not that it should have been 45 but 145 not only related to the legislation that we've passed, but also to everything that's working on making a qualification framework, or at least you're saying it's working, but obviously it's talking, and it's not working. So in terms of training young people. It is awesome for colleagues and colleagues when you look at the implementation of the budget for European projects from European funds in this part of education and science. Either we don't have projects or we don't have money to co-finance with or we just don't know what to do. We have European money that we simply don't take advantage of. That's what the execution says and nothing to anyone. In this particular case, it happened. ... The minister said so in a unilateral decision we no longer do so even though for a year and a half it's been to say so in a twist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This budget implementation document is also good-looking because it's actually showing that some of the projects that we've been saying are our priority as well as their actual treatment. The training of teachers, the development of vocational education, then, let's say, the development of the educational system all that... the story. It's on indexes 40, 50, 60 nothing was done. And I repeat, in a crisis situation, the only thing that can get us out so other than these measures that actually the system functions in the long term is investment in education and development of the education system, offering people more qualifications. We just don't do it, because of the incompetence of the people who run the system we pay the penalty on the agreed money that we can't get off the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53958	Thank you very much. My colleague Linic's gone. So, we've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. State Secretary Zdravko Maric concluded. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53959	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, at the end of the debate on the implementation of the 2009 budget, allow only a few remarks. So most of the debate was more I would say focused more generally on the general nature of the budget itself. We have heard a lot about international experiences, and also in some way about this, above all, France and some of its factors, especially parliament, in what is happening in the fiscus, or what is happening in the fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia. Let me now, at the end of the day, we have had of the distinguished representative Lugaric a few specific questions, so let me refer to that. I'll start redistributing, so budget law. What the Parliament voted for and what is, in fact, and to some extent, it does not deviate or fully comply with some international practice to enable and to redistribute certain funds. This was confirmed last year in the second half of July when the Constitutional Court made a decision which confirmed or rejected the proposal, i.e. an assessment of constitutionality for the possibility of redistributing in the context of the implementation of the budget for the very reason we put it in the original of the Budget Act, which is that there is nevertheless the possibility of a certain flexibility or possibility of influence in changing circumstances. I think 2009 really shows one more than the best example of this one finding. What is important, however, is what you mentioned, therefore redistributing funds by moving or moving from one item to another, but the Budget Law makes it very clear that "the redistributions of funds cannot go to the heart of increasing the total level of expenditure nor can they act on changing the results of the total budget". And that's actually in line with what I said earlier with international practice. As far as the budget stock is concerned, I'd like to rely less on a similar answer than I just told you earlier. You've cited several examples. Among other things, this is one of the largest items that was done in the budget stock last year and this was for the Winter Olympics. Of course we knew that the Winter Olympics were in Vancouver and of course we planned them in the budget, and it is seen from the position of the Croatian Olympic Committee, but at the moment of budget planning, not all parameters were known above all and the total number of Croatian Olympics who will participate there. And of course, what you yourself have said is that some new or unexpected circumstances can be some extra cost or certain items that simply cannot be planned at some point. Similar circumstances can, in fact, be explained in some way in other items. ... Please. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's all that's planned, so the municipalities are practically the same. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So there aren't any large amounts as you can see. So for certain projects, for certain things that weren't actually sufficiently planned. ... I'm telling you the same thing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Just like you said about the Olympic Committee, so for the Olympic Games. So you have the funds planned, you can plan, but something happened, in this case we can say positive for the Olympics. It is unforeseeable that one of the additional Croatian Olympics qualified and placed himself there. And let me just end up telling you about interest. So I was saying, interest you saw this, that 500 million kuna at the level of the total state budget financial expenditures, or interest growth. However, it is also in Article 55. The Budget Act also states that the budget is, of course, implemented in accordance with the resources available and the commitments made. The principal and interest payments of government debt and government guarantees may be made in amounts above planned. This is what actually best describes what happened last year, so financial expenditure or interest, above all interest on debt or debt expenditure from past periods, something that you cannot at some point influence what is on world and international, and in fact domestic financial markets, has happened that these interest actually increased and then you have a consistent budget to actually break those items because simply no one will write you off or forgive you. And here I see that you also have corrections of incorrect allegations so that in any case I finally thank you again for the debate. What is in some way and a taste not only of these last discussions and my answers, what we heard in the debate, and I am glad to be with most MPs, regardless of their support or support the implementation of the budget, that you noticed that 2009 must have been a very challenging year, above all in the planning segment, but even more in the execution itself. You have all been very well absorbed in the closure of financial markets and in the world as well as at home, but you have also recognized all these efforts and all these measures that have been taken. Of course, depending on not only some preferences and opinions or relationships can be characterized as popular or unpopular, but ultimately I think that once again, when we draw the line for 2009 and in some ways compare ourselves not only with other countries in the environment but also in general when we look at that with all the challenges we have had, we have managed to close and execute this budget. After several years of fiscal consolidation and reduction of the budget deficit last year, the deficit was increased to 3.2% overall, so the state budget was 2.9. This year's challenges continue, neither are they excruciating nor did anyone expect this to happen. Therefore, either either on the revenue side in terms of charge of the budget or on the expenditure side in terms of settlement of all obligations and execution of expenditure. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53960	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have two applications for correction of the quote. First of all, colleague Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53961	An incorrect statement by Mr. Secretary of State regarding funding from the current reserve that this is about unforeseen costs, even when it comes to certain municipalities. All these municipalities have their own revenues from the state budget and if the point is that the Municipality of Velika has received for the financing of infrastructure and other projects in the Municipality of Millioni, 500 thousand kuna, for example one of the municipalities. Or to finance the unforeseen development of insurance, the necessary functions from its district, and that, please, is given from the current state reserve. And now I'm gonna use it, and I'm just gonna say that, among other things, it was given from the current reserve to the United States, New York, to support the restoration of the roof of the parish church of St. Rafael. Or not to say that from the current reserve they also received individual associations to celebrate among other Mother's Day. Please, and now say that the current reserve was used the way it was prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53962	Surely if the government is scheduled to schedule, it is in accordance with the law. ... And if the things that happened in some municipalities happened, take the Zlatara Municipality where the boss ended up in Remetinco and left 7 million debt, 3.5 million is the budget and the aunts in kindergarten didn't get paid and they wanted to unplug the gas so that the kids don't go to kindergarten. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So I'm asking if they'd intervene or not, and that's one of the interventions. Comrade Lugaric, you're still here.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53963	Therefore, it is incorrect to say Mr. Secretary of State that these funds in the division of the Ministry of Education and Interest Science have grown on loans due to changed credit conditions. It's not the classic interest, it's the penalty for undrawn credit funds contracted because we didn't make projects. That's what I was talking about, not the financial part. I don't know how you give your budget users and also the ministries permission to make certain loans without projects and then pay for the penalty. Well, we don't have the money for that, to pay for the penalty for the outstanding funds. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53964	Thank you. I mean, you'll explain it here. It's normal to get a loan first, but the bankers are like that, there's no Zdravka, he talked about it, then you can just run for project and withdraw the money until it's over. In the meantime, they're picking up this interest that you said, but it needs to be demonized as much as possible, and I agree that in such positions, the least money needs to be spent because it's the price of what we don't have, and then we're putting something aside and we're paying for it. But here, we've come to an end at this point on the agenda. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Today and we won't go any further because here we said by 4:00 that we'd be working. We'll continue tomorrow with the 2009 Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, which is the 10th item of the agenda, usually at 9.30 p.m. And at 8:00, I invite you and once again remind you to meet me at the HNK for the ceremony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-05-27-0.u53965	We are moving to the 2009 proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for an annual report was adopted by the majority of votes. 74 votes in favour, no abstentions and 24 against. In accordance with Article 11. I give the budget law to the vote first, the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the 2009 Croatian Waters financial plan. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Thank you. This decision on granting consent has been adopted by the majority of votes. 76 votes for, 7 abstentions and 13 against. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the annual report on the implementation of the 2009 Croatian Roads Financial Plan. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This decision on granting consent has been adopted by the majority of votes. 73 votes in favour, five abstentions and 20 against. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the annual report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the installation of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This decision on granting consent has been adopted by the majority of votes. 75 votes for, three abstentions and 19 against. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes 74 for, 1 abstention and 22 against, the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2009. And I am voting in favour of giving consent to the annual report on the implementation of the 2009 Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund's financial plan. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision to give its consent to this report was adopted by a majority of votes. 76 for, no abstentions and 18 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're continuing at the 18th session. And the 1st item of the agenda this morning is - - A report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2009 Prosecutor: The Advocate General delivered this report on the basis of Article 22. Gender equality laws. The government delivered an opinion. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mrs. Gordana Lukač Koritnik, Advocate for Gender Equality. Here you go.
