ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59177	Now we move to a united debate - Final proposal of the Law on Public Executives, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 581. - Final proposal of the Executive Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 584. The proposer of the law is the Government of both draft laws. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration and Justice. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Damir Kontrec will explain the final proposals of both of these laws. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59178	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. There are two texts before you, the text of the Executive Act, or the Law on Public Executors, which are actually the result of the reform of the Executive System. Those who know how it works in practice then know for sure that the biggest problem is implementation of the performance. So it's not a problem to reach a solution to the performance, it's not a problem to reach a strong court decision, but it's a problem to implement it in practice. This reform of the Executive System introduces one new public enforcement institution as a public service. The Public Executors Act lays down the conditions under which, both the number of inhabitants and the conditions of who can be a public executive and, in fact, the public perpetrators are persons who, in the future, will carry out the exercise both on the basis of executive documents and enforcement on the basis of a credible document. The difference between the first reading of this Implementing Law is that public enforcement authorities have been given the authority to make a decision on the performance on the basis of a credible document introducing duality along with public notaries. So it can also be brought to the public notebooks. In view of the discussions held on the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, the Proposer agrees that these laws go into third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59179	Thank you very much. The committee's reporters? The Legislative Committee, chairman of the board, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 101st session held on 28 September 2010, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the final proposal for the Executive Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 16 September 2010. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law. However, in view of a number of proposals and remarks, it is proposed to the applicant to review the possibility of carrying out a third reading on this final proposal. Therefore, the proposals and comments concern the following issues. In the whole text, it is necessary to examine the use of terms, demand, obligation or debt in an appropriate way, because these terms do not reflect or contain the same characteristics or legal relationship. Secondly, it is proposed to include among the provisions defining the meaning of certain concepts within the meaning of this law the definitions of executive, i.e. credible documents, in particular regarding the executive act of the public notary. It is also pointed to a different process of assessing the value of real estate and movable property, which is acceptable in a certain sense, but in another sense affects the length and course of the procedure itself. In the whole text, in a number of provisions, instead of nomotechnically correct references to a certain provision of the law, the text in brackets is used, and often and unnecessaryly because the related content is given in the description as well. And final. It points out the final provisions to be developed by taking due account of legal certainty, as the proposed solutions result in either a certain time in the legal force being two laws and two legal texts, each in a certain part only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59181	Thank you. The Justice Committee, the chairman of the board, Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State and Secretary of State with your associates. The Committee discussed the final proposal of the Executive Act and the final proposal of the Law on Public Executives as a parent body. Following the introduction of the proposal, in particular to point out that, in addition to legal and nomotechnical improvements, the final proposal of the Public Executive Act confers powers on public enforcement authorities to determine enforcement on the basis of a credible instrument, the power to issue a European executive order shall be conferred on the European public authorities to request official actions from the police. The committee members supported the adoption of the law, noting that it introduced important newspapers in the conduct of executive procedures. By way of derogation from the conditions laid down in this Article, the competent authorities of the Member States and the competent authorities of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the other Member States of the European Union, the competent authorities of the Member States, the competent authorities of the Member States, the competent authorities of the Member States, the competent authorities of the Member States, the competent authorities of the Member States, the competent authorities of the Member States, the competent authorities of the Member States, the competent authorities of the Member States, the competent authorities of the Member States, the competent authorities of the Member States of the Member States and the Member States of the Member States of the Commission, the competent authorities of the Member States and the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Commission, the Member States of the Commission, the Member States of the Commission, the Commission, the Commission, the Member States, the Member States and the Member States and the Member States of the Member States of the Commission, of the Commission, of the Member States, the Commission, the Member States, the Member States and the Member States and the Member States and the Member States of the Member States of the Member States It has been pointed out that the proposed laws are primarily expected to be effective in the procedures of enforcement, and is therefore suggested to the applicant to review certain provisions in order to ensure that they are effective and effective. The question has also been asked how it is possible and whether it is possible to influence the even schedule of executives, given that in the previous practice of the work of public notebooks some have almost failed to carry out the tasks, while some offices carried out tens of thousands of performances. Given that it is a public authority which has been transferred to public notebooks by the State, and these laws also transfer those powers to public enforcement authorities, the possibility of even deployment should be considered in the performance of the underlying transactions. In line with the opinions expressed, it is guided by the fact that important newspapers such as public perpetrators are introduced in the procedure of implementation, the Committee suggests to the applicant that the need for the adoption of the law in the third reading should be reflected. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, with 7 votes in favour and one abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Executive Act and the Law on Public Executive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59183	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Government and the Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. Since the applicant has already accepted the request to go with the Implementing Law and the Law on Public Executors in Third Reading, I will adapt my debate to these circumstances, but I further believe it is important to stress that the Implementing Law is a powerful tool of the rule of law, to bring order into the market. The second thing I want to point out is that executive law is a relatively neutral political law. And thirdly, without an effective instrument of the executive law, it cannot be counted on the competitiveness of Croatian society, Croatian economy. One more thing in principle. The current system of judicial enforcement indeed has a number of faults, it is difficult to implement practical and effectively from that title we support the government to draft a new Act of Conduct, but it must be aimed at effective action in this process. The Executive, but especially the Law on Public Executives, which is before us as a final proposal, raises many practical questions, from how to train public perpetrators, public notaries and judges to apply this law, if its application starts as proposed in the proposal. However, since the government has accepted that the law goes into third reading, such a remark is now falling away. But it is not a waste of debate on whether new legal institutions, such as public enforcement officers, should be introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, and the public enforcement duties would be carried out by them, so public contractors as independent independent service holders, who have the capacity of public trust, their role would be particularly significant in the implementation of the exercise on movements, in order to collect money demand. Therefore, the procedure for enforcement is distributed according to the proposal to three different bodies. That seems very irrational to us. This could lead to numerous conflicts in jurisdiction, which will require judicial intervention, in resolving conflicts, who should act in certain cases. Since it is not just the judicial authorities, it could also be a matter of constitutional jurisdiction. If the aim of reforming the enforcement procedure is to suspend the judicial order and transfer the enforcement to the new public enforcement service, then there is no room for provisions on the initiation and implementation of the enforcement procedure before the court. The court would have to maintain a supervisory post over the legality of the work of the perpetrators and public notaries. It is therefore necessary to impose forces solely on the new Implementing Law to be an effective means, a tool to complete the procedure as soon as possible and to establish a legal order on the market, i.e. on claims. Believers, according to the draft Implementing Law, creditors would continue to have three legal protections for the same demand, and this would further complicate the current situation which is not satisfactory. Thus, the believer would have the right to appeal under the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the right to a payment order and a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, the procedure before the public perpetrators shall be initiated by the authorising officer and the procedure before the public notary, i.e. the court shall be initiated by the authorising officer to carry out the action. If this or other law is not otherwise laid down, this is an predictable source of uncertainty in competences and conflict in jurisdiction between bodies in the same area. There is no reason for the court to determine the exercise on the basis of a decision by a foreign court, the following question, domestic or foreign arbitration law. The Court of Justice should have the power and the procedure for the recognition of the foreign court decision and of the arbitration tribunal and its determination in the exercise in order to be uniform when it is to be leveled with a domestic court ruling. According to our point of view, only courts would have the right to control the performance and should not be burdened by its implementation especially in a situation where a public enforcement institute is introduced. We believe that only one kind of court should be entrusted to oversight of public enforcement officers. It seems that the legislator did not like or could not, failed to simplify the procedure, we have already stated, in terms of legal medicines that we hope will be resolved in the third reading. In this case, we can point out particularly important, important that the decision of the first-degree court, which has decided on the executioner's proposal, has the possibility of appeal to the higher i.e. the second-degree court. Practically, this means introducing three degrees instead of 2 degrees so far. It is hard to imagine that such a situation will lead to a faster, more effective implementation of what should be the goal, the fundamental objective of the new executive law. The proposals have completely abolished the existing extrajudicial exercise which has proved to be the most effective way to collect claims in recent years and for the sole reason that the initiative for the conduct and delivery of a valid solution to the debtor has been transferred to an executive whose interest is faster, as far as possible, to carry out the procedure. Therefore, given that the law goes into third reading, it should be concluded that the complexity or scope of the matter subject to regulation is an objective danger that no, all consequences of the proposed solutions have been considered. This can naturally have the opposite effect of the desired. There may be further difficulties in implementing the exercise and exercising religious rights. Instead of the believer getting determined in speed and procedure that he can exercise his rights, which is founded on a powerful and executive correction, it is possible that his achievement will only be delayed, complicated and collected. We could say and get to the point that the believer is right, has a verdict, but there's no way to execute it. The executive procedure should be cleared of all the elements of the case and turned into a single citizen and legal person clear and fast and efficient and at no further cost. This procedure should be the protection of creditors, but it must be a clear message to debtors that obligations must be respected and legal relations established as they have been initiated. It wasn't done in these bill proposals, in either one or the other. The important difference is the introduction of another institution that is not cleared from the conflict of jurisdiction. We think that the interests of the credentials should be more precise in all the provisions, but given that it is a third reading, I will skip the amendment debate. In other words, we support the conclusion that both the law and the other law go into third reading and we think that the third reading will achieve the objectives set out for the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59185	Thank you. HDZ club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59186	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to point out that the HDZ Club supports the draft implementing law as well as the proposal for a Law on Public Executors. The necessity of reforming the executive system is reflected in the need to create effective and effective enforcement in the light of the current system of enforcement despite a number of draft laws. It represents the main obstacle to the effectiveness of the judiciary and the basic factor of the large gaps in cases in courts. The Strategic Study of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 30 July 2009 set out the objectives of reforming the executive system of the Republic of Croatia, which implies the development of an effective and effective system of enforcement and the specific, simplification of the executive procedure, the reduction of the duration of the executive procedure and the discharging of courts. In line with the objectives of reforming the executive system, and applying the EU's best performance standards, as well as the main specifics set out in Recommendation 17. The 2003 Council of Europe, under which the exercise must be governed by clear legal frameworks, with clear and simple reference to the rights, obligations, responsibilities and opportunities of all participants of the exercise, ensuring compliance with the law and judicial decisions proposed by the implementing law and the Law on public enforcement, will allow legal certainty and transparency as well as more effective enforcement of the exercise. The new laws leave the current model of judicial enforcement and implement it shall be given into the jurisdiction of public enforcement officers as the new body of the executive procedure which will be fully responsible for the implementation of the exercise. In the jurisdiction of the courts, it will remain only an exercise for the purpose of handing over the child to the parent and the exercise of his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/ his/her/her/his/her/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ his////// his///// his/// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/////// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ The search insurance procedures will be carried out as so far by courts and public notebooks. The proposed Implementing Law has given particular attention to all those institutes which have been seen in practice so far as the main reason for stalling or which have enabled the abuse of procedural powers. The legal medicines and the reasons for their statement have been significantly reduced, and deadlines for the court to make a decision on the legal age and to dispatch it have been prescribed. 15 or 30 days from the day the complaint was received, and 30 days from the day the appeal was received. The obligation to provide data on the debtor, the Croatian Institute for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the Ministry of Interior, the FINA, the authorities responsible for the cadastral records, other real persons or bodies in whose jurisdiction it is to keep a register or register on matters and rights which constitute the debtor's property, as well as the duty of the Tax Administration to provide a personal identification number of the perpetrators, i.e. the opponent of the insurance. The delay in the execution is only possible with the bail. There are limited objections from third parties, as well as references to the case. The law further prescribes the conduct of a public enforcement officer in respect of the applicant's proposal for the implementation of the performance and the proposal for enforcement, as well as the handling of the declared legal medicinal product. In particular, on the basis of the authorising officer’s proposal to carry out the performance, the public authority shall adopt an executive order, and shall also decide on a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, and shall be authorised to choose the means and objects of the exercise on its own as well as to amend them subsequently. In this way, the debtor will be prevented from avoiding his or her obligations through abuse of his or her rights. The control of the legality of the conduct of public perpetrators is ensured through the Institute of Legal Medicines decided by the Court. The law also provides for the right of the party or participants to request the court to remove irregularities committed by the public perpetrator in the implementation of the exercise. The decision shall be made by the court within three days of the date of receipt of the submission. Public notebooks shall determine the performance on the basis of a credible asset on which the implementation can be carried out. Without reference to the means and subject-matter of the exercise, which enables the free choice of means and subject-matter of the exercise, and also the executives have the opportunity to request the implementation of the exercise directly with the financial agency. Furthermore, the proposed law also prescribes specific conditions under which the state, municipalities, cities and counties when they participate as a party have the right to request a postponement of the exercise while the European Executive Order is extended to public enforcement authorities. In the executive proceedings, court proceedings are limited only to those cases where it is explicitly prescribed by law. The proposed Law on Public Executors provides for the establishment of powers and the way public enforcement works as a public service, the choice of public perpetrators, the conditions for appointment, the criteria for determining the number of public perpetrators, their competence, powers and obligations, liability for damages, the obligation of permanent education, the strict responsibility, the control system and the establishment of a firm and permanent mechanism of monitoring their work. The public enforcement service shall be established by the legal service carried out by public contractors as independent and independent service holders having the capacity of public trust persons. A public enforcement officer may be appointed a person who meets the requirements laid down by law, Croatian citizenship, completed law school, passed a judicial and public enforcement exam, necessary work experience after a judicial examination has been passed. Furthermore, a person worthy of public confidence in making a public executive call and other conditions prescribed by law. And appointed by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary on the basis of a competition carried out by the Chamber of Public Executives. The number of public enforcement posts shall be determined by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the opinions of the chamber, courts, and the competent county body, taking into account that at least 2 public perpetrators are on every 80 thousand inhabitants and at least one public perpetrator in the area of each county court, as well as the needs for public enforcement services and developed economic and legal traffic. Furthermore, the law also provides for ways to stop public enforcement services, as well as how to deal with public enforcement files after the service has ceased. Also, mandatory insurance is prescribed against the responsibility of public perpetrators, the right to regress against employees, as well as the question of liability for damage caused by the public perpetrator by the violation of his official duty. The powers of the public enforcement authority or of the tasks authorised by the public enforcement authority to carry out the service are also laid down, and the type of documents drawn up by the public contractor in the performance of the service. The public contractor's obligation to document all actions taken to be subject to control at all times. In addition to the conditions for the appointment of a public enforcement officer, the conditions for staff in a public executive office are laid down. Public executive deputy, assistant, clerk and trainee, as well as their rights and duties, and the way they are appointed. Public authorities would be organized through the Public Executive Chamber. In addition to public executives, their deputies, assistants, officials and trainees will be enrolled in it. The bodies of the chamber would be the chamber assembly, the board of directors and the chair of the chamber, and other bodies to be established by the statute of the chamber. The chamber as a representative body of public executives will play a major role in the public enforcement service, with the basic task of overseeing the work of public contractors. In that sense, the chamber will cooperate with the ministry. In fact, the law stipulates the strict responsibility of public perpetrators as well as the types of strenuous acts and penalties for each of them. It is prescribed that the way in which the tight procedures are handled, the legal medicines, the outdated prosecutions and the execution of the firm decisions, while the second-degree body is defined by the Ministry, which is intended to achieve the dispensation of control over the work of the public perpetrators, i.e. to achieve a higher degree and effectiveness of control. In view of the fact that the public service will be private and that public contractors will be financed by their own work, the law prescribes the right of public contractors to a reward for work and compensation for the costs of carrying out official operations. The amount of the prize will be prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Department of Justice. The public enforcement officer will be obliged to take care of the fees paid neatly, since public enforcement documents and actions will be paid public enforcement fees under the provisions of the special regulation. As one of the conditions for the appointment of a public executive, i.e. a deputy public enforcement officer, a public examination is also prescribed, the conditions for the submission of that examination and the obligation of the Ministry to organise the first public exams and specific courses in order to prepare candidates for the examination. It follows that the adoption of the Implementing Law and the Law on Public Implementing Rules will make it faster and more effective, i.e. it will contribute to the reduction of courts' backlogs, as well as legal certainty and greater rule of law. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the draft implementing law, as well as the proposal for a law on public enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59187	Thank you. HNS's club, HSU's, Ms. Danica Hursa's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to be very brief and I'm going to say that the HNS and HSU club will support the third readings of both of these bill proposals. According to the first reading, it is evident that a number of nootechnic and legal improvements have been made in both of these laws, in order to remove concerns about the interpretation of the provisions of this law. But it is already mentioned, there are still some things to specify, such as clear powers in which the court is acting, and in which public perpetrators and public notebooks are present. Then, the question of the even layout of the executives is raised. There is no doubt that by adopting both of these laws, the enforcement will become faster and more effective as the result will also be a reduction in the gaps in courts, and thus we will have a more effective judiciary as a whole. So, because of the precise situation of both laws, we support third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59189	Thank you very much. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with Associates. My colleagues and colleagues. The issue of enforcement and the issue of efficiency of the execution of judicial decisions is essentially what the courts are doing. Therefore, if the court decision cannot be carried out, it cannot be carried out within and in an effective manner then it remains a dead letter on paper and no longer plans a judicial decision but the fact that it cannot be executed effectively. Realising that even most of the items left behind are precisely executive procedures and executions now far away in 2002 and '03, respectively. In the years when the law was to come into force, we had the courage and so far-sightedness to have a service such as a public record service that was established in the mid-1990s, which in a very short period showed one enviable level of action and one which dealt with the law of certain affairs which had been given to it in jurisdiction, but also with those jobs which, if possible, allowed by the legal provision, gave exactly those powers and in the jurisdiction of the original jurisdiction of the courts to the public notation. Then in 2004, we had a bad time when there was a suspicion of whether public notebooks could really be the true commissioners of courts and perform such tasks. We lost that one year, but then and then by ruling, they realized that the service of public notebooks in both professional and material terms was capable of taking over that part of a large part of the case that was not in the classical sense of judicial matters because the court had already made a measuring decision that it could be transferred to public notebooks. Let's just remember, maybe this is a chance to remember the abandoned items. The deserts were still a major problem in 2004. Is there anyone today, and today there are numerous objections to the speed of the judiciary itself, but no one mentions any of the hermits anymore because from the very beginning these cases are in case there is no dispute transferred precisely to the jurisdiction of public notaries who solve such matters without a problem. It is also important that the courts that assign these cases assign them in a specific order so that all public notebooks are in a balanced part burdened with these cases and there is no doubt there. The same procedure should be done in these executive procedures. As stated on behalf of the SDP Club, as most other clubs have supported this fact that it is not going into emergency procedures, i.e. these two laws and the Implementing Law and the Law on Public Executors, it is a new institution and since this new institute is well considered in order to start a new institution on sound grounds. Namely, what I would like to say immediately in the executive procedures to consider, so until the third reading. We must keep in mind that fast executions must be equally rapid for everyone, that banks and other financial institutions are not allowed to be used by fiduciary, this immoral institution that has had its own question about morals and ethics even in Roman times. It is not permissible for a debtor to meet a fiduciary, fiduciary real estate for that smallest remaining debt. This especially in times of crisis, many families in Croatia turned black. And the banks didn't see either, nor did the perpetrators, because they were used at the start of that institute. That institute that allowed all the believers to be used. No one uses things by nature. So let's think about it in these times, let's make it quick and efficient, but justice must be served. It's not fair for a man to lose his property because of a small part of the loan. Often people have pawned their grandfathers, their fatherland. It's simply not fair and that's what then, which people don't experience, so all these efforts then and the authorities and all of us here to pass such laws that will then make all the actions effective. I believe that, because it is a letter addressed to the Ministry itself, these remarks made by the Public Bookmark Chamber. These are remarks even observed by the HDZ club itself, which is also the fact that there is no difference in individual services, nor in the notaries themselves. It has already been noted that some notebooks, some public record offices have a huge number, that is, of course, a huge profit of such procedures while others do not have such a purpose at all. That's what needs to be taken into account, and then the citizens will get a good fee. Because wherever such checkpoints are created within the service itself, it is not good for the service itself, and these are services of public trust. Then it's blaspheming the government itself, that's the state itself. Therefore, the main objection is that, both to the Executive Act and to the Law on Public Executors, we cannot have parallelism, dualism with public documents that are the basis of the exercise. It's something that has now been created in these proposals, and it needs to be removed. Only one institution can bring a public note, an act based on which it is then carried out. This was seen by colleagues from HDZ, which is the basic observation of the profession and it is indeed something that has to be removed. This will create great, great uncertainty among citizens and those who are using them who are primarily in charge of making such a public notary decision, or an act of conduct, and then you can imagine a believer who does not know who he will address. There may even be a situation where you have a parallel of two decisions about the same thing. That should be taken care of, because all these good ideas then fall into the water. Therefore, the public should be told that this proposal of the Executive Law wants to make a quick, effective decision, that the creditors get to demand as soon as possible but also so that the debtor does not pay what is not due, and you must take care of it in fiduciary terms because then it happens. The public enforcement service is a truly important institution. That's one of the new ones that we support, special service, and that the courts are relieved. These are, after all, very embarrassing situations. This is something that has been known in the people of northern Croatia. Such persons were known as tentacles, and with us in southern Dalmatia as edgers. So the debtors were terrified of them. Indeed, as well as the service of public notebooks, the public service is of paramount importance and in this sense that these are persons regardless of this formal criterion, they must indeed be persons of public trust. There is, of course, a great responsibility of the Minister himself, who decides on a public competition, which is good, who then decides which persons will be appointed public contractors. As the public perpetrator is now required much more for the judge himself, much more for the notary himself, because he must, in addition to the legal examination passed, have a public record exam on public executioners. That's a lot of responsibility, and that's why it seems to me that we should tighten the criterion here that it's not enough that he worked two years after he passed the exam. So we have to be at least five years old. These are very subtle things. It's not just technical stuff. He comes in contact with persons who are taking away property and there is experience, therefore also in these relationships, and this can only be gained by communicating with parties who have so far judges, state lawyers, lawyers, notebooks that may be reorientated to this resolution. Please let us increase then. I think we have a staff like that, an expert staff who is then financially motivated to carry out this duty to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59191	Thank you. Two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59192	Comrade Antičević, I must replicate on this cry that the banks act unfairly, immorally and that it is not fair to use the fiduciary institute in such a way. Well, it's in vain to ask them for honesty and moral behavior. Their god is money, their religion is power. They're the state of the country. They're privileged caste in this country and it's impossible to ask them to behave the way they're used to. And I'm not surprised they're acting that way, because they've shown what they're like in this biggest economic crisis while the citizens are whining, the economy is moaning, they're the only ones who pay off their profits, and they're billions. I know that our public media has nothing to do with these billions, but three and a half billion have made a profit in this world's biggest crisis, and they would have made another three and a half if they hadn't booked that much because of the high-risk rankings. And all that risk is being transferred to both citizens and the economy. I'm not surprised by their behavior because I know how they came into existence, and a long time ago, an economist said. Nothing is bank business compared to how banks are founded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59193	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59194	Now as a member of the SDP, I have to say something to surprise and to the general astonishment of something even in favour of those persons. Why are they acting like that? Because they're allowed to behave like that. Because many others would if they came into such a position and were left to their personal relationship whether or not they would behave the same way. The government made it possible for them by law and introduced the fiduciaries in 2004. We abolished it in 2003. We're also aware of why, how it came to be. That banks and financial institutions have exerted great pressure on the government and the government to abolish, to reintroduce fiduciaries. What would they do with the judge, with the public notebooks, with the dots. They give credits, because they don't have enough mortgages, which they have to go through later on, but fiduciary ones. For the banal loan people gave their houses under fiduciary, now they're out of houses. I only know three people in my Arbanas who have lost their homes, without their grandfathers. And that's something we have to stop people, especially in this time of crisis. So as Christians, up to 80%, 90% of people here in Croatia have declared themselves Christians, and we worship the golden calf what you colleagues are talking about. That's inadmissible. They need to be put to rest. They will behave in the manner of their authority, that is, how we allowed them to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59195	Down the golden calf. Replica, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59196	My colleague Antičević, we here must simply say when these laws will be good, and we need to translate that into a simple dictionary. So the Act of Conduct will be good when the believer who fairly delivered the service or did the job will be able to collect his claim. Here's a specific example. So the craftsman is... Reported to one tender, he did a fair job, made an invoice, invoices were accepted, the situation ended, but there was no payment. [[You don't understand.]] It shall be reported in the procedure of enforcement, on the basis of a credible document, shall pass the first steps, shall pass the second steps, shall be decided in favour of the verifier. There's no way he can collect his claim. What did the state do in the meantime? She fairly charged VAT on the basis of the invoices, because the state doesn't care if he who honestly did his job will be able to make his income for the job. What did the entrepreneur do? The entrepreneur couldn't even collect his claim, but he couldn't even pay his workers. He is also seated in the tax administration because he cannot pay taxes and contribute to the salary of these workers, and the debtor, meanwhile, using all the process models, separates property and value from the companies that need to pay and simply at the moment when the public executive would come into the situation to do that exercise, has nothing to do with doing that. We must therefore, by law, ensure that those who work honestly and display invoices can make the job fair and charge so that they can pay their workers afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59197	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59198	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will support these two laws, therefore the proposal of the Implementing Law, the Law on Public Executors, of course, with the satisfaction that the Proposer has accepted that these laws in the third reading are for the necessary revision, given that it is an extremely important and serious matter, and since it is a new law after a series of amendments. The procedure of the exercise is extremely important for the citizens of the companies of the entrepreneurs, of course the judicial or administrative procedure does not end, and nothing really means to them a powerful verdict, but for them the procedure is over when they get the thing or the right they claim by a lawsuit or by a submission. In July 2009, the government set out the objectives of reforming the executive system, in its strategic document, and these objectives are to develop an effective implementation system, simplifying the executive procedure, shortening the duration of the executive procedure, and discharging courts. I'm not quite sure, and I'm glad that the law goes into third reading, so if we check it all out again. Of course, in order to implement and determine the executive procedure, implementation of the exercise is particularly important to find a balance between the protection of the credentials, in order to quickly and effectively obtain what was sought by the prosecution, whether in the administrative procedure, but it is also essential to protect it in terms of human rights, in terms of possible shaming, and in terms of possible confusion and debtors, and we have cases that occurred precisely in the procedures of the exercise, therefore and in this part need such protection. And not to be too long, so there have been various speech institutes, it should be said that these institutes are voluntary. We've also heard about the behavior of certain entities in business, so it's not a bad institution alone if it's being abused, and it's up to us to do everything we can to prevent that abuse, even if it's legal restrictions. So as we are already in the debates today, and we are talking about simplifying the executive procedure, and we are coming into the situation that somewhere in the law is foreseen now that an appeal can be brought against the court, and then the appeal to the court of higher degree, de facto we are introducing really three degrees and the question of whether we are going to achieve the desired efficiency, and then perhaps we should consider doing so as we did in the reform of the Criminal Law, that something is stopping at the courts of the first degree. As for the introduction of a new service to public contractors, as a new public trust service, I think that this is extremely good, that public contractors will find their interest in effective and effective implementation of the performance, we have seen, therefore we have an evaluation of good in relation to public notebooks to which certain public affairs have been transferred, as a public trust person, and where we have extremely good results, mainly here in the deserts as we have heard. As far as the implementation is concerned, with efficiency we have been fighting very hard in the Croatian legal system, I would say for years. We are changing and promoting laws, and we finally realized that the exercise does not end with the stamping and the enforcement of the act, so that the execution ends when the believer has a thing in his hand or has the right or money he asked for. And on that trail is the service of public contractors will be extremely believed to prove useful in the part of the performance of the performance. Now, we haven't heard the explanation, maybe there is an explanation, and maybe they'll think about the duality of the powers of public contractors and public notebooks that happened between the first and second readings. Indeed, it should be considered as a first because of the possible confusion of the credentials to whom to turn, because there will be a duality of authority and because it is an abandoned principle which was presented in the first reading of the law, which is that public perpetrators carry out the exercise and that the adoption of a solution is left to the public notaries. In this regard, in particular, I refer to certain possible dangers, and by the third reading a little consideration may be given to making a solution to the performance on the basis of a credible document. We have now heard, a colleague Mršić spoke about an entrepreneur who has asked for an executive and it is not disputed if it is based on a certified situation, etc. Since there is, however, a procedure that has indeed been carried out to confirm the work done, the services delivered, etc., but as an executive, as a credible document, is listed in the law, is derived from the accounts, and a series of such documents where the debtor can then be introduced into a business book as a debtor, and that he may have settled his obligation, it can only be pointed out in the complaint procedure. So perhaps a stronger instrument for the performance should still be needed if it is not a solution to the performance, an executive correction, rather than a credible correction. Well, these are the remarks that I believe the Proposer will consider until the third reading, and I'm asking, in particular, to consider what the Justice Committee has warned and what we are here today in the debates and hearing, it is about the transferred state business, the public trust persons, and in the case of a public notary, and in the case of public perpetrators, to find an instrument that will level the number of jobs, so to speak, by a certain public service. I note that something has been done in this law with regard to local jurisdiction, which means that a local public enforcement officer is designated, which will mean, for example, that the exercise of office over large or public or state-owned enterprises or companies will have to be carried out in public enforcement, i.e. public notebooks in a place where the debtor is resident, not centralized in a place where the trustees are established. So there will certainly come from the perpetrators to a certain balance throughout Croatia. And as far as public notebooks are concerned, I also suggest that a moderation be considered to make this even. Here, and finally I support these laws to be directed into third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59199	Thank you. Three replicas. First Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to rephrase to a respected colleague in the part where she mentioned mandatory law institutes, and in fact, in terms of their abuse. And I'm replicating because even in previous discussions, these institutes have been mentioned, but I think maybe in one or only, or in one negative context. In fact, when we talk about contracts, about guarantees, about fiduciaries, about debt, about a solidarity debt, we are actually in one area of legal affairs or contractual relations, and every legal job is a consensual display of will, so a consensual display of will aimed at respecting legal effects, as in theory we are taught by the existence, termination or change of property-legal relationship. So each of these institutes in its fullness when it comes to life we can't legally regulate it to avoid its abuse in everyday life. And the abuse of the one Mršić spoke of, but in that sense, we are certainly in the area of mandatory law entering the area of criminal law because all of what he said is actually a criminal act of fraud. What do I want in the end and I'm gonna end up saying? So all the institutes we find, and fiduciaries, and guarantees and loans and solidarity are institutes of mandatory and legal relations that appear in an indirect manner in executive procedures. Whether in a particular situation, regardless of what the subjects are concerned, the answer to that question will give us life and daily life situations. And related fiduciaries in relation to the guarantee I can indicate a large number of situations when guarantees or solidarity debt also resulted in even greater negative consequences in concrete mandatory relations than those mentioned by the distinguished colleague. So, the institutes do, but we're all struggling to get to these institutes in terms of their abuse in everyday life and economic business, so ultimately, if you need funds or institutes and criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59201	Replication response, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59202	Thank you very much. Well, I fully agree with my colleague Tomljanovic. It's bad to accuse certain institutes because there are abuses. Abuses always exist because of this we must have an effective judiciary to protect those who are subject to abuse. You said well, not only fiduciary, avali, interest, guarantees and a number of others, interest rates, etc., and a number of other institutes are being abused in practice and there are people who may have been abused a few times because of their inexperience or told fellow Maric that banks are being monopolistic, I agree very often. But it's not true we'd have done a bad thing for fiduciary to be the only instrument of insurance. So he's one of the instruments. I can say that I had a few credits during my life, no one ever asked me for fiduciary insurance but they were mortgages or other kinds of insurance. There is also abuse in the Zadar area of which counterpart Antičević spoke about the problem of fiduciation, I also know the tragic situations where people are kicked out of houses based on registered mortgages and are fighting hard because it is also there because of the wrong land registrations, etc. They've been unwarrantedly expelled. So what I repeat to the institutes can be misused, and it's up to us to establish effective mechanisms and institutions to disable or if abuse occurs to sanction them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59203	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to refer a little bit to your part when you said you shouldn't have a certain institute as an instrument for abuse. Of course not. Well, no one who has a gram of humanity in them could ever charge more than they ask for. But unfortunately, that's what's happening. It is inconceivable in the business world that someone delivers a million-euro item, that the buyer guarantees the debtor or any instrument, once an acceptive warrant. Pay 950,000 euros, and get his supplier to give him a full million-dollar accept warrant for the 50. Unfortunately, it's what banks do. He raises a man's credit, pays off 100 grand, he's got two thousand left, and bank fiduciaries sometimes take advantage of it. That I am amoral, immoral and unbusinessful. But it's expected of them to behave differently. How and if it isn't under the influence of politics? They're above politics. And it was the second policy from 2002 to 2003 and the banks were acting the same way. At the time, a large bank charged acceptive orders it had never received, but stole them at a bankruptcy company and charged tens of millions. At the same time, the same bank bought from the state institution a portfolio of companies for 1 kuna and after two months sold to the state again for 34 million kuna. Right at the time of the second political option. Therefore, banks act equally regardless of the policy situation, because they are above all else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59205	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59206	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Maric here's all you said is that, but that's proof of another, and it's not even abuse legally, but immorality, and it's probably going to be the clients of the bank, maybe one day on the market people will still be able to decide between banks, it's not all going to be the same way, let's say immoral. They're not all the same now. People will choose which banks they'll go to for a loan, because it's not like in the former Yugoslavia that you were too happy to get a loan at all, so it shouldn't have been because of inflation or to return it. People finally realized there's credit on the market as much as you want, so you can pick it out, but you have to eventually get it back. What I'm saying is, because there are criminals everywhere and there have been acts of illegals, I don't know, maybe in banks, maybe in nursing homes, institutions of life support, etc. I don't think we all have to end these institutes. Because we're simply going to make it impossible for the citizens of the honest ones to use them. So, you should have them, keep them in the legal system, but then you should act on illegal behavior. We've read a lot about the abuses of which are mandatory legal institutes, but I don't think we've done enough in the prosecution of these same people where it's been said that there are or are doubtful crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59207	And the third replica, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59208	Well, first of all, to tell my colleague Tomljanovic, so the entrepreneur filed a criminal report, but the court ruled that there was no intention of fraud. For 4 years, the entrepreneur cannot collect his claim based on the executive and final, yes, to abuse, yes. So for four years, he can't collect his claim, he filed a criminal complaint, the court ruled there were no elements of the fraud. But therefore, the Law of Exploitation can be colloktiously stated by the Law on the Protection of Believers, and we here have to create preconditions for the believers to be truly and protected because they are unable to charge for something they have the right to do. If we go that there really is a credible I.D. or some other insurance instrument. However, when we are talking about a credible correction, then we must say that the state has no mercy there, it collects VAT whether it was a certified situation or just an account, which is what my colleague Lovrin was talking about, so we will question the credibility of that document. So there's going to be an objection that this account is one or the other. However, the Tax Administration has no such mercy and does not doubt at all the credibility of this particular account, but simply collects VAT on that account even though the entrepreneur or the believer has failed to charge the VAT part in any way. Therefore, the state must protect the competition in a way that those who work fairly and put out credible accounts can collect it and even then say we will not charge VAT until the application is charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59209	Answer to Mrs. Ana Lovrin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mršić, at the first until your presentation, cannot be answered because it was a replica of my colleagues, and then, my colleagues will have to help me answer that. But as for this second part, where I have troubled the credible provisions of the law, which lists the authentic documents, I thought should be reconsidered which are subject to direct enforcement. As far as VAT is concerned, it goes according to special tax laws, we're talking about the Executive Act here today. But, of course, since not every house is divided into a legal system, certainly if it is considered and solved differently in this Implementing Law, then it is certainly necessary to install unique solutions into other laws in order to bring the country's legal system into line.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59211	Thank you. At 12.12, it was time to report a ten-minute debate on this point. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59212	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. Therefore, the debate is united on two laws, on the final proposal of the Executive Act and the final proposal of the Law on Public Executors. In my debate, I will refer to the Final Proposal of the Law on Public Executors. This law was in July in the first reading, today it is in front of us, so in the second reading. Certain provisions of the law are, as has been said, in relation to first reading nomotechnically, contained and legally improved, or further comply with specific regulations. So, this Law on Public Executors into our legal system instead of the present model of judicial enforcement with some exceptions where some types of enforcement remain in the jurisdiction of the courts. It is therefore said that these are the tasks of handing children over to a parent, for the purpose of meeting parents with a child, the exercise on the basis of a decision by a foreign court. So, these exceptions introduce a new model, a new institute, a public enforcement institute. The law defines public enforcement officers as independent and independent public service holders who will have the capacity of public trust persons, and will act independently, professionally and impartially in performing the service. Certainly, by introducing public perpetrators into our executive procedure, it makes a pretty big step and I would say even a radical step. However, I think it is necessary because, despite the numerous efforts to get through legal interventions in the executive procedure so far, it seems to me that we have since the adoption of the Implementing Law of '96. The years of having had his six novels seem to me, so to increase his efficiency, to simplify and speed up, but despite all these improvements, the executive procedure remains unacceptablely slow, too formalised and ineffective. Therefore, it is expected that the introduction of exactly this system, the system of public enforcement, will ensure faster, simpler and more quality implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation by the public notaries. The introduction of public perpetrators into our legal system is based, of course, on the experiences of other countries, other countries, so the Institute of Public Executives, I think, is interestingly highlighted, of the 27 members of the European Union, it applies to them 19 and of the 12 countries that joined the European Union after 2004 10 adopted it before accession. We can therefore conclude that this institute is very widespread in the Member States of the European Union. There it has proved effective and the experience in its use is very positive. That's why I don't see any reason for this institute not to be effective in our legal system either. Finally, I will say that it is good that the State Secretary, on behalf of the Proposer, accepted the proposals of the Justice Committee and the Legislator Committee, that the Law on Public Executors, as well as at the end of the Implementing Law, go into third reading because it is extremely important laws that will have significant impacts and significant consequences on both citizens and economic operators, and it is generally on religious debt relations, so it is not a waste to reanalyse and reflect on all aspects and the consequences of the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59213	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59214	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Public Executors. That was another reading of P.Z.E. No. 581. The debate is closed. The Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice proposed that a third reading be carried out on the final proposal for a law on public enforcement. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted a proposal from the Assembly Committee. I give the vote the following conclusion: The final proposal of the Public Executive Act will be discussed in the third reading. Please engage and let's vote. The result? The proposal to hold the debate in the third reading was accepted by most votes, 108 votes to, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59253	We move to the next point - Proposal for a law on complementarity of the bankruptcy law, with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 594 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, justice, finance and the state budget, work and social partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, however, Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjak will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. You have before you a proposal to amend the bankruptcy law and what we all know is actually a pretty painful practice for us to conduct bankruptcy in the Republic of Croatia. What marks our bankruptcy is longevity of conduct. For many years, it has been burdened with various institutes, and then, ultimately, after a whole series of years, it turns out that many believers do not exercise their rights for which they have initiated bankruptcy proceedings. One of the important reasons why bankruptcy fails is also the time to open up the bankruptcy. Very often bankruptcys are opened after companies have spent many years, 5, 6 and more years unfortunately blocked, their accounts are inactive, nothing is happening, and for all this time in fact, certain operations are being conducted in bankruptcys, property is being made, various contracts are being made, claims are being transferred to any other entities. And that's when we come back to keep the bankruptcy open when the debt has grown and it's about the state's claims and it's about asking for funds. The interest, of course, has also raised the value of the claims they have. However, when bankruptcy is opened, we often do not have enough assets to settle these claims. One of the problems that changes to this bankruptcy law is the whole series and therefore we have a large number of companies in the Republic of Croatia that do not have a single employee, but therefore have certain debts, have been blocked for a number of years and have taken up space on that market, have actually taken up a certain part of the market, and have produced debts, raise interest, have not been paid according to the funds or to the Republic of Croatia. And now we propose these amendments to the law means a little easier procedure, a little faster procedure to achieve full efficiency of the reduction and cost and acceleration of the process. And with these proposed changes, we add one new head that... A shortened bankruptcy procedure, and it is a procedure to be initiated at the request of the Ministry of Finance, a tax administration relating to any economic operator who has no employees and for which the regular conditions laid down in Article 4 are met. It's a bankruptcy code. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that a business entity has registered outstanding obligations with a bank which, for an economic operator, conducts payment transactions for a period of more than 60 days, which should have been charged from any of the debtor's accounts on the basis of valid payment grounds without further consent. In addition to the provision of a shortened bankruptcy procedure in this Banking Act, intervention has been carried out and in Article 54(3), so that the mandatory content of the decision to open the bankruptcy procedure is also an indication of the exact time when the bankruptcy is opened. We believe that this regulation means a faster bankruptcy process to bring about a better order on our market and that ultimately those who do not deserve to be part of the market that in this reduced bankruptcy procedure we can regulate them and that the creditors, if they have the means and settle their claims that they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59255	Thank you. The committees? Legislative Committee, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with his associates. At the 100th session held on 21 September 2010, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the bankruptcy law. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. On the text of the final draft law, the Committee shall submit the following amendment. So, first on article three. In the third word, "application to" is replaced by the words, it ceases to be valid with the reason that it is nomotechnically processed by an expression. However, in addition to the amendment set out in the debate, the question of possible difficulties in the implementation of the shortened bankruptcy procedure has been raised, as the Tax Administration should, in addition to the rest, be based on the facts set out in Article 335a. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. points 2. At the same time, the debate also raises doubts as to the existence of the provision of Article 3 and that it does not show that the procedure would continue proceedings which were not completed until the date of the expiry of Article 2 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59257	Thank you. The Justice Committee, chairman of the committee of Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Justice of the Proposed Supplement to the Banking Act has considered the status of the parent body. The members of the Committee unanimously supported the proposed additions to the Banking Act and it is proposed, in the debate, to propose a review of the provisions of the third proposal, which limits the period of application of the updated provisions on the shortened procedure until 31.12.2012, for the reason possible and after that time-limit from all actions taken by the Tax Administration, new entities which would fall under the short procedure provisions. Therefore, for the sake of future efficiency, a shortened procedure should be maintained or there may be some reasons that the proposer will explain what he was at war to stop on 31.12.2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59259	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP club, Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59260	Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This law on complementarity of bankruptcy law, unfortunately, came to the workers of the Stonestone, too late. They are like what we have been following these days through Croatian media strike hunger, and now they are on a general strike because of the inaction of the state. Namely, their salaries were not paid, and unfortunately, the IRS did nothing to make their situation different. According to the applicant's explanation, the reason for supplementing the bankruptcy law is the need for more effective implementation of bankruptcy as one of the measures in the implementation plan under the Government's Economic Recovery Programme. Given the fact that it is declared as part of the economic recovery programme, this law also has a limited duration until 31 December 2012. What is the intention of increasing the efficiency of bankruptcy? What exactly are these supplements offered? The proposed additions are introduced by the Institute so-called a shortened bankruptcy procedure. What is the importance of attaching itself to this institute and how much expectations it is made visible by the fact that the shortened bankruptcy procedure is a quote part of a judicial reform aimed at improving the rule of law, respecting contracts and protecting creditors. What is the essence of a shortened bankruptcy process? According to the proposed amendments, the Tax Administration will provide the competent commercial courts with requests to launch a reduced bankruptcy procedure for all those economic operators, i.e. legal persons who do not have a single employee, such as in Croatia more than 19000 with a total debt of more than 11 billion kuna, who have recorded a blocking of their business account for an uninterrupted duration of at least 60 days and which cannot be deleted from the court register in some other way by the Court Register Act. After obtaining an excerpt from the court register for a legal person for whom a request for bankruptcy has been submitted, the Commercial Court will ask the company's administration to submit a pro rata list of debtors within 15 days and will call on the creditors to propose the opening of a bankruptcy procedure within 45 days of the publication of the call. If the administration of debtors or creditors does not act at the request of the court or is not provided for to cover the costs of the bankruptcy proceedings either from the assets of the debtor, whether the assets are in advance and the creditors will be deemed to be incompetent and the court will decide on the simultaneous opening and closing of the bankruptcy proceedings. Of course, we all know that bankruptcy must be more efficient, faster, and cheaper. Because today, unfortunately, we have bankruptcy that dates back to the last century literally, which has been going on for 10 or 15 years. What does it mean for believers to get slow after 5 or 10 years? Nothing. Indeed nothing, because slow justice is not really justice. However, the shortened bankruptcy procedure will not be a little shorter and thus neither more effective as it will be called shortened if the judiciary remains slow and the judiciary remains ineffective. I claim, in fact, that we have had a relatively good bankruptcy law in Croatia, especially in the context of these additions that are now being offered. Thus far, the bankruptcy procedure has been urgent, and so far the management of a company that was unable to pay or over-indebted should have proposed to open a bankruptcy procedure without delay. And the tax administration was supposed to apply for bankruptcy. Did society administrations act by law? No, they're not. Did the IRS act according to the law? It's not. In other words, we have so far had all the necessary legal instruments to launch and manage bankruptcy, but he has ignored himself. The tax administration did not launch bankruptcy by safeguarding social peace, which actually extended the agony of the companies unable to pay, and encouraged the expansion of insolvency. The additional reason why the tax administration did not launch bankruptcy was that it had no financial resources to pay the court fee. The tax administration therefore received from the State the power to launch bankruptcy, but not the necessary financial resources. Therefore, this proposal states that the financial resources to cover the costs of the bankruptcy procedure are solidly assumed by creditors who have also proposed to launch the bankruptcy procedure. The management of companies that did not launch bankruptcy should have been severely punished, because the fact is that these companies spent other people's property, that the owners of these companies did not settle their obligations to their creditors damage their creditors, from workers all the way to the state for billions of kunas, without subsidising debts, sucked out their own and other crafts capital from the business process and permanently immobilized it in consumer goods. We all know in apartments, villas, expensive cars and yachts, exotic trips, etc. The loss of the necessary trade capital resulted in losses in business, and the financial loss must lead to bankruptcy sooner or later. So these companies were indeed indivisible generators that spread to the entire Croatian economy in concentric circles such as their own contagion. And instead of the owners of such companies being punished, among other things by taking away illegally acquired assets, we will now, through this law, practically amnesty them from the responsibility for the huge financial disorder they have made in the Croatian economy and for the release of national wealth, primarily economic substances in private pockets. By opening and closing the bankruptcy, the court register will be cleaned up by system-eaten donkey wolf. And you'll put an end to another round of criminal capture of the results of other people's work and property, because taking someone's goods or services, using a favor and not paying for it is nothing more than stealing, until the robbery. Also do not pay the state taxes and contributions is also robbery. By not forgetting that the non-compliance of commitments did not take place without the blessing of the Ministry of Finance. For years, net salaries were allowed to be paid without tax and contribution, wages were allowed to be paid through union accounts, because the regular account for business was blocked, payments were allowed below the table, payments were allowed through vouchers, so the idea of passing laws in Croatia was never really lacking. And now, in fact, here are these supplements to the bankruptcy law that make up hot water. I must say that this law is neither an anti-recession measure nor a measure that can contribute to the recovery of the Croatian economy. This law of a truly peaceful soul can be called the law on the amnesty of eternal defaults. And in the end, all I'd like to say is that those who have already profited, and they're also going to profit in this circle of cleaning the register of a commercial court are bankruptcy managers. Being a bankruptcy manager is indeed one of the most profitable professions in Croatia. Literally professional company dignitaries, who have contributed largely to the longevity of bankruptcy and poor outcomes of bankruptcy proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59261	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59262	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. Clearly, when we talk about the bankruptcy law, it's not good. It would be far better to say during today's day to talk about how to spend some surplus in the state budget. Unfortunately, the bankruptcy will be more and more, the introduction to this is, among other things, this shortened procedure, and probably the money so that we can spend it through some new distribution, so almost there won't be in this country. I'm not talking about workers and workers of course Kamensky, I'm absolutely solidarity with them, but without, say, billions of kunas, let's say, incentives from the Croatian budget, for example. according to shipbuilding and if they were in the same position as the textile industry, I don't know how to say they would spend their time. I, of course, welcome first of all this decision and the European Commission that it has finally adopted the view that the Uljanik is not a society in difficulty. It is exactly as my predecessor said the bankruptcy procedure was urgent, it is true that according to Article 21 within 21 days in the case of insolvency, or over-indebted management, they had to initiate bankruptcy proceedings and it is exactly the same that those who did not do so, who did huge damage to their creditors, for that and under the existing Commercial Society Act were able to answer it personally, with all their assets for that amount, however, it has not been the case so far. On the other hand, I personally think that the introduction of maybe one of these heads, a shortened bankruptcy procedure, should be accepted. Maybe it should be introduced somewhere along with this small-value bankruptcy, but where it's spoken up to 2 million kunas, but we can really have a situation where we have a company without jobs, and it's simply not worth up to 2 million kunas, but it can be much, much bigger. If these institutes are the happiest, as they are suggested, complex, it will show time. I am sure that after a while we will have to supplement individual institutes, and I agree with the predecessor that we have so far had a relatively correct bankruptcy code, especially after this 2006 novel. What's for example? Interestingly, we now have the possibility of this bankruptcy plan, which is what we once called a reshuffle seven and eight years ago, but interestingly enough that, for example, in these institutes, it does not offer the possibility of making a declaration of debt accession. In the case of a regular bankruptcy procedure, this is the case, for example, in this shortened procedure for someone to verify that statement with the notary, etc. and that within that 60-day period, the debtors here do not have the institute, and I believe that someone might also appear who would be willing to make a statement about the accession of the debt. But clearly this is not the subject of this law. The proposal for this law is how to clean up these inactive societies or, as a colleague says, how to amnesty individuals from commitments they did not perform in time. We in Croatia today have 101 757 active companies. We also have 95,908 active crafts. Now, how many of those who are overindebted, who are inequitable? I think no one can say it reliably at this point. In this proposal, Article 335 of the Law states that the Ministry of Finance, i.e. The tax administration is initiating a reduced bankruptcy procedure. 3 are clear reasons to launch bankruptcy; inability to pay in those 60 days when someone cannot settle, over-indebted and clearly threatening incompetence to pay. Now, what's the point? What if this legal person or this company, individual, craftsman, does not matter, which will be hit by a shortened bankruptcy procedure, for example, has no obligation to the Ministry of Finance i.e. There is no obligation to the state, and there is, it is inequitable to some other believers. How will anyone know that, and on the other hand, we see that there are no employees, how will anyone know that in the ministry? I just don't. So now we have this public controversy of the Prime Minister and the Chamber of Commerce asking for a list of all companies that are inequitable, but simply to that data by no means either she or the competent ministry or the government or I don't know who can come. Or now we're just going to play God and all the companies that are without employees simply toss into bankruptcy. I think that at this stage as well as in that stage of the previous proceedings, the judge should be in a position to consult with the witches, whether society is really inequential, whether it is over-indebted. But he won't be able to know it either, which is more to be erased if nothing else is done by any other institutes of regular procedure. I also think that so far no one has made a distinction between a society without employees and other societies. So we bankruptcy, normally we can spend over the craft, we have one member, one founder, we have one worker. We have, let's say, in D.O., there can be only one founder, he doesn't have to have an employee, and he can appear in a situation where he even does a good job at d.d. We can also only have one owner of those shares. Clear d.d. It must have management, a supervisory board, a congregation, so it is to believe that someone will also be professionalized, or employed. The very employment of society doesn't have to talk too easily. I think the judge or the court or worse this court counselor, who's going to be conducting a short trial, is going to be hard to work without a bankruptcy manager. That the bankruptcy manager will set things up like this is not necessarily necessary in this shortened bankruptcy procedure. We're proposing on the other hand, but we're going to talk about it in this law that follows, let's say the abolition, now how many about 7 commercial courts instead of keeping these commercial courts in the existing number, and that's why I'm mostly reporting for the word to be able to carry out this activity amongst other things. I'm asking myself one logical question now, how are 19 thousand more ccs or 20 or 10 thousand new cases going to be carried out by our courts if we are to lift de facto every other or third court? So far, we've seen that a lawyer, a public notary named by a judge, must be listed on that list by the competent department of bankruptcy managers, that's not really what this is about. Will the ministry be paying all the costs of the procedure? Is he going to pay those 10,000 kunas? Additional fees? He won't. They'll only pay for that ad, etc. You are also calling on the believers to propose the opening of a bankruptcy procedure. I think this should be fully regulated, but what should certainly be done by the administration itself, the debtor respects the 21-day bankruptcy procedure and that, in accordance with the Law on the Commercial Society, the person who does not do so, and the damages to his creditors personally correspond to that damage caused to them. That's just the point of me quoting this article 4. The bankruptcy law which says loudly and clearly: "if a company is unable to pay or over-indebted management which runs the company without delay and no later than 21 days after the inability to pay or over-indebted propose the opening of the bankruptcy procedure." That's actually the point, so maybe we wouldn't even need these kind of measures against which I'm not personally. Although as I said, I'm afraid that in due course they'll also have to change easily. Second, what else do you say? Two is the problem. When we talk about companies we talk about people who run them like they're criminals, like they're thieves. It can't be like that. Let's let go of those big systems that have been converted, but these little companies I mean these little owners, craftsmen, etc. often even worse than the workers who work with them. It is clear that obligations need to be met in the opposite company. But sometimes if someone owes you, if you don't have a job, then you're a man really asking a question, what to do. If he pawned all the property he had, generations before he had acquired it. We must sometimes have an understanding of such situations, not for non-payment absolutely but sometimes we must have an understanding of all the major problems that arise higher and higher indifference in the Republic of Croatia. What I find in a way and personally insulting is what I would call a game with companies, don't settle some obligations, form a new society, run away from old obligations to creditors, to the state, to the tax administration, to the workers, and someone else on the other hand neatly reconciles all their obligations and then clearly that these companies are not in the same position on the market. And then this other guy's gonna ask himself a question, so I'm out of line, they'd say mona, if I had to pay for everything without this other guy just paying for nothing, that's the problem. And yet through this bankruptcy as the matter is set up now the state will settle bankruptcy proceedings because it is to assume that out of these 19 thousand companies that are inequitable, over-indebted by their brother 90% has no property at all. We are simply coming into a situation that everyone in this business is not the same and therefore the principle of the sea has not been fulfilled by old obligations, there is no new company and it must become a principle in this country. What's happened so far is, it can't be tomorrow. I'm sure and I'll say that if this is about 20,000 companies without workers with 11 billion kuna unsettled liabilities, surely 90% of these companies have no assets and this clearly says how and in what direction this process is going to go. It's good to delete them from the court register, but also to dispel them through such a form, it doesn't matter now which institution, whether the ministries, the government because of their indifference, because we generally always call the executive authorities, even if I don't know 50 or 90% in that indifference, private societies still participate. I think these are topics that need to be discussed as well. It is necessary to draw the line, as well as to help people who are in business, because it is one thing to be in the public sector. But I assure you that being on the market and surviving at this time far away is far more difficult. All in all, I think these institutes that the government is proposing can help us. We'll see what time it takes. It is likely that some provisions will have to be changed, complemented because life is far more complex than we can see from the places of these benches and these places, but the intention should at least be welcomed.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59263	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Josip Salapic's turn on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the bankruptcy law with the Final Proposal of the Law. I would say that this law introduces order into the forest of riots when it comes to the business of those legal entities that are unemployed, who have been in a blockade for more than 60 days and who, through their banks, cannot achieve payment traffic and as such, are a burden to the Croatian economy and, in general, to the economy which is in those problems that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is dealing with. These companies should simply be cleared from the court register because their debts of 11 million kuna are creating certain obligations, and as such they become a burden to the Croatian economy especially with these measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia implements when it comes to the economic recovery plan and the exit of our country from the economic crisis. The bankruptcy law itself is as good as that. He's been around since 1997. So far, we've witnessed four amendments to that law. Any amendments and additions to the laws that have so far been made to the more effective implementation of the bankruptcy procedure have been removed by those terminology irregularities of non-applicable provisions of the bankruptcy law and all those provisions which have been questionable in a legal sense. According to this proposal, creditors are equal to their rights, allowing the bankruptcy manager to review all claims or to be given the possibility to determine the overall status of debtors, conditions were created for a more appropriate legal basis for the implementation of the bankruptcy plan. These amendments to this bill sought to achieve greater efficiency in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. This draft law adds a new Chapter 10 to the Banking Act relating to the shortened bankruptcy procedure, and according to the proposed amendments to the Finance Ministry law, the IRS will provide the competent courts with requests for the launch of a reduced bankruptcy procedure for those economic operators that have no employees and which have been blocked for more than 60 days. In the draft law we received in the parliamentary procedure, the reason for the law states that it refers to companies that have up to 5 employees, so we ask the Proposer to comply in that section with the final draft of the law, since it is a final proposal. This law requires the provision of additional resources in the state budget of a total amount of 80 million kuna. For 2010, 5 million kuna is foreseen, for 2011. 35 million kuna for 2012. 40 million kuna. In addition to the proposal for this shortened bankruptcy procedure, it is concluded that the decision to initiate the bankruptcy procedure must specify the date and time when the bankruptcy procedure is initiated. The proposed bill on a shortened bankruptcy procedure does not agree that it will abolise anyone. It is, however, within the system of the overall reform of the Croatian judiciary, the closure of chapters 23, an effective economic system in the Republic of Croatia and not just one in a series of laws that we want to improve our judicial system before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, and also to clean up those illogicalities that are in force under existing laws, which is to exist something that is legally and formally not supposed to exist, so the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill and we will vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59265	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59266	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. So here's what's already been said, this bankruptcy law came into force on January 1, 1997. So far, four times has been amended and complemented and by solutions that contain and this new bill can be said that it is actually a modern bankruptcy law, in a nature similar to the bankruptcy laws of the developed market economy and Western democracy. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club considers that the proposed additions to the existing Banking Act, which relate to the shortened bankruptcy procedure for those legal persons who do not have employees, have a recorded blocking of the business account for an uninterrupted period of 60 days and for which there are no conditions for the initiation of the procedure, erasure from the court register, the best way of improving it in order to exclude companies whose business burdens other healthy business entities and affects their security of business. We can freely say that this law aims to clear the market of permanent non-leaders, and in some cases phantom entities, and in its application it would disappear from the market within a short time period of 19 thousand entities that are long-term insolvent, have no employees or assets and a debt of about 11 billion kuna. The aim of the current changes to the bankruptcy law is to strengthen responsibilities in the business of companies, and free the country from the obligation to pay the cost of the bankruptcy advance. When the tax administration proposes to open up bankruptcy, it will no longer have to pay the advance under the new law. As the work and needs of the courts are financed by the state budget, there is no point in the provision under which the tax administration must pay the advance to bankruptcy courts in order to examine the conditions for the opening of bankruptcy. The savings will amount to around 190 thousand kuna, as it plans to shut down 19 thousand non-equity entities under a reduced procedure, and for each of the applicable laws, the tax administration would have to pay 10 thousand kuna. The contained solutions under which the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance applies for the launch of a shortened bankruptcy procedure and the obligation of the court to obtain excerpts from the court register, as well as the authority of the judicial advisers to carry out the shortened bankruptcy procedure and the prescribed exceptional deadlines of the guarantee are swift and effective implementation of this procedure. The implementation of the proposed provisions and, in accordance with the plan for the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which evaluates representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party in the Croatian Parliament as positive and valuable implementation, the legislator will contribute significantly to strengthening security on the market, strengthening mutual trust in business of economic operators, better and more effective protection of creditors and regular conduct of contractual transactions. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59267	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's Madam Representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59268	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, a relatively small one would say either a short law that enables or creates a shortened bankruptcy procedure or a shortcut to address the accumulated problems of non-payment, indifference, with the aim of protecting the creditors and respecting the contract. Folkly speaking, it has become easier to choose rotten apples from a basket. It's one of the laws that comes from the economic recovery programme package. The bill makes it relatively easy to read the government's intention and purpose of its adoption. However, from the assessment of the situation and the consequences of the law that will be followed by this law, we cannot read about the situation in the area covered by the law, whether it will fix it, and even less what benefits for economic recovery the government expects by adopting this law. The minimum correctness we expected here is for the government to say how many business entities have recorded a blockage of a business account for more than 60 days, what these unpaid accounts are. In view of the fact that the tax administration is an authorised proponent of these reduced procedures, it would be correct to indicate how much of the tax debt is or should be given to unpaid accounts, as is one of the blocked ones to which this law could apply, which is exactly what the Government expects by adopting this law. This intransparency of the proposal is probably a bad attempt to conceal responsibility for the current situation as well as the consequences that will come under this law. We at the HNS and HSU club support the need to solve this problem, we support even the way the government is going to do it, but because the government is not opening up a problem in its scale of the HNS Club, HSU will be restrained from the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59269	Okay, thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go. He's gone. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59270	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed Law supplementing the bankruptcy law will meet the conditions for more effective implementation of bankruptcy as one of the measures set out in the Implementation Plan of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and provide a legal basis for the implementation of so-called a shortened procedure as part of judicial reform, all in order to improve the rule of law, protect creditors and respect for the contract. Otherwise, the existing bankruptcy law entered into force on 1 January 1997 and has been amended and amended four times to date. The latest amendments and additions avoided the multiple legal regulation of individual legal institutes, the terminology disagreements were removed and some provisions were improved and non-applicable provisions were removed. This proposal, in turn, complements the bankruptcy law by adding a new Chapter Xa in order to achieve full efficiency, cost reduction and acceleration of the process. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). It is a procedure to be initiated at the request of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, which concerns each economic operator and that entity which has no employees, for which the conditions laid down in Article 4(4) are met. In addition to the provisions on a reduced bankruptcy procedure, the decision on the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings shall be accompanied by an indication of the time and minutes of opening of the procedure by the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, in accordance with Article 54(3) of the Financial Insurance Act, by a statement of the time and minutes of opening of the proceedings which are in conformity with the Financial Insurance Act. For this reason, I support the adoption of a law supplementing the bankruptcy law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59271	Thank you. And we still have Mrs. Nada Cavlovic Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59272	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates. So, looking at this final draft law on amendments to the bankruptcy law at the very beginning, I must say that the proposer is saying that these will mean a legal basis for the implementation of so-called. A reduced bankruptcy procedure as part of a judicial reform aimed at improving the rule of law, protecting creditors and respecting the contract. Similarly, it has been said that the need for these amendments to the bankruptcy law stems from the need to create conditions for more effective implementation of bankruptcy as one of the measures in the plan for implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, look, at the very beginning, I have to say that, it means changes to the bankruptcy law and the institute of so-called. The shortened bankruptcy procedure will in no case contribute to the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, and I will explain this to the whole set of examples. First of all, the introduction of a bankruptcy procedure will primarily cost the state budget. Because by the basis of this law, i.e. amending and supplementing the law, we see that the Ministry of Finance will be obliged to pay for an ad in the National Journal, and also for the Commercial Courts, who will then call on the believers to deliver a dispensary list of their assets. There will also be new costs that they will have to pay. And as far as I know, trade courts don't even have enough resources to settle their necessary material costs. This measure, I must say, is unfortunately suitable for those, which means that more than 19,000 entrepreneurs who do not have a single employee, and have created huge and tax debts and contributions and other public contributions, as well as debts to other believers. Whether the adoption of this law means that they will be amnestied as well by criminal responsibility. Because the current bankruptcy law stipulates that a company which cannot, or does not comply with its obligations within 60 days, and other public duties is required only to report bankruptcy and this still implies that if no bankruptcy is reported, all conditions are met, that the person responsible in that legal person is subject to criminal charges for the crime of not reporting bankruptcy. Does the adoption of this law mean that these responsible persons who are, as said in the previous debate, will be about the debts of around 11 billion kuna that they will be amnesty by responsibility. I'm asking a question here, and then what about those legal persons and businesses who neatly for a number of years are meeting their tax obligations, contributions and their obligations to suppliers. Aren't they punished and what kind of message are we now sending these amendments to the bankruptcy law? These are the questions I'm really looking for an answer to, because I think that here, when spoken on behalf of clubs, there were some praises in terms of here, and now the issue of indifference and the question will be cleared as a Croatian economic space from those companies that are problematic. However, what an economic measure it is, in fact, an economic recovery measure if you will go into a shortened bankruptcy process. It is already known in advance that if the company doesn't have any employees that it probably doesn't have any assets, and that projection plan that they're going to bring to the Trade Court will be without moving, without immovable property. The State will only elegantly erase these tax debts or contributions or debts it has to other creditors. Whether they are not punished by those who regularly charge and pay the state their obligations, and those who are problematic and which means the taxpayers will be rewarded. Another question arises as to what was done by the institutions of the Ministry of Finance, the supervisory services, the forced collection services that could have happened at all that so many 19000 companies, almost 20,000 entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia do not have any employees and build up so many tax debts, the debt of contributions I do not know and debts to my creditors. I think it is unacceptable and incomprehensible to me that Prime Minister Kosor's statement, which came out of wonder about two weeks ago, so she said there are over 19,000 companies in Croatia that have no employees and do not meet their obligations. They have about $11 billion in debt. So I wonder if that question should have been referred to the Ministry of Finance's address, which is required to carry out the procedure, and whether it's not enough signal when you see that the company doesn't have any employees, that it doesn't meet its obligations, that after three months, six months... the procedure of enforcement and, in this case, there is a possibility, e.g. due to value added tax, you have the possibility to simply close that company. [[You don't understand.]] But it wasn't done. That wasn't working. The state will now pay for those who have not paid anything to the state, will amnesty the importance of criminal liability, and they mean taxpayers, or entrepreneurs who work neatly in the end, will actually wonder why we pay and why the state is regulated, because in this way, they will definitely be punished. I would also like to say something about the individual provisions of this law, which I think simply will be very, very difficult to implement. It is stated here in Article 2 that the request referred to in Article 335 of this Act contains data on the company, the seat of the legal person, including its address and that, that means the information at its disposal by the tax administration, but this point 2. means paragraph 1 says data on the amount of outstanding claims awaiting settlement. As far as I am aware, the tax administration shall keep records of taxes, contributions and other public duties, which have been given in jurisdiction by the basis of legal provisions, or by the basis of contracts concluded with units of local and regional self-government. I am interested in the way in which it will be operational and how it comes to the data on how much you, these legal entities have unsettled obligations to other creditors, because these data have only business banks. That's not what this bill says. Whether they will have to apply to the FINA and in what way they will be dealt with, I think that should be said in this law, because I, from experience, will be able to create great difficulties in implementing this law as far as the tax administration itself is concerned. It is also said in Article 35e that the commercial court will first, under official duty, obtain an excerpt from the court register for that legal person, and will then request members of the administration, or persons authorised for representation, to submit within 15 days a public record checklist of the property of the legal person, with a warning that, by giving incorrect or unnecessary information, they shall be held liable as a false statement before the court. I don't think that what's written here is enough to determine in any case any body, or any institution on the spot to determine whether these legal persons still own certain, primarily movable property, because the immovable property data can be found in the tax administration, as well as in the municipal court. I don't know how to trust these responsible people, so those assets they own, which should be subject to this bankruptcy procedure, will actually be reported. Furthermore, as regards Article 335, where it states that the creditor who proposes to open a bankruptcy procedure, other than the applicant for the payment of advances, i.e. Article 335.k., if the court suspends a reduced bankruptcy case, which is regulated by this law and makes a decision to initiate the previous procedure, means that it is going back into bankruptcy proceedings and the rules of the bankruptcy law, the creditor may appoint as a temporary bankruptcy administrator a lawyer, a public notary or a person on the list of bankruptcy managers and a list of judicial experts. I think it's me, or by my assessment, I think that this job should be done first of all by bankruptcy managers. So bankruptcy managers mean they had to take a special exam, they have qualifications to conduct bankruptcy proceedings and I don't see at all the need to mean about bankruptcy and this shortened bankruptcy procedure can actually involve judges, public notebooks, other persons. That's my point on this article, because I don't see why someone means they're taking a bankruptcy exam, and they have to register the company more so that they can run the bankruptcy at all, so they can be a bankruptcy manager, and now the possibility is that public notebooks, lawyers, I don't even know the court's experts. Now, in the end, I'm going to say that this reduced bankruptcy procedure, as much as it has now received praise in this debate, and it's commended as that space is going to be cleaned up, simply from, it's going to run out of liquidity, it's only going to be good business entities, I don't think that this shortened procedure is going to achieve anything, that I'm absorbing the way, that there's just going to be a new cost for the state, and all that's not going to be, this law wouldn't be necessary, that the competent institutions were doing their job, and that they're charging taxes in time and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59273	Thank you. We have replicas. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59274	My colleagues, when you mention just the legal persons who have no employees, who create huge losses, not paying off suppliers, not paying off workers, not paying off the state, it's one problem that the bankruptcy law itself can formally resolve, can be deleted by these companies, however, it is necessary to prevent such situations, as the fight against corruption is not resolved by law itself, nor is it reduced only to repressive bodies, but rather to prevent things. This is one of our general problems with the functioning of the state, but then the state itself must refrain from such procedures as the laws provide to be sanctioned by citizens. The state must first of all protect the believers and must not be one obsessing... And the main debtor. [[You don't understand.]] Today in the Republic of Croatia, the state is the main debtor. It charges VAT, but does not pay its own obligations. And often this one bankruptcy whirlwind that she herself thing, and that one indifference, that's the source of huge problems. And then the citizens really, who have their own companies, who have gotten into such troubles, don't see it as justice. So not getting into this and these provisions, of course, and improving the bankruptcy law itself, but also that law that I don't know that it's perfect that it can't solve problems that didn't become individual cases with us, it's just a simple phenomenon. But the moment the state agreed, what we had in 2003, sanctioned in the Penal Code, to sanction, therefore, as a criminal offence, the abuse of trust rights, i.e. to sanction those who are irresponsible to the believers. This country refuses to sanction today and thus simply allows for these situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59275	Thank you. Answer Mrs. Nada Cavlović Smiljanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59276	Well, fellow Anticevic, you're absolutely right, and I'm just going to illustrate with one example. There is a whole series of business entities, legal persons and natural persons who have claims to the state where the state means it does not pay its obligations to them, and I have to say that during the coalition government, from 2000 to 2003, it happened precisely... Yes, that it happened that the state allowed compensations to be made. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Which means, if the taxpayer had some kind of demand, a claim against the state, the state allowed him to, if possible, owe VAT or some other type of tax to make it simply compensated. But that's since she came to power, since HDZ power, that can't happen. There are a lot of entrepreneurs who have millions of dollars, claims on state-owned enterprises and countries that cannot charge, who are in a difficult situation and who have to walk around banks and raise loans, and that is the question of whether they will get them. At the same time, the state is blocking their account because they failed to pay the tax, but it shows no willingness to make compensation in any way, or to pay in some way its obligation to those business entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59277	Thank you. We've also got a replica of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59278	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I agree with you colleagues that actually this kind of change of bankruptcy law is not really going to solve what it says in the very explanation, so it's the protection of the credentials and one of the measures of economic recovery. The bankruptcy is the ultimate measure in protecting the credentials. However, the problem with us is that the state appears in a bad light both as a debtor and as a believer. The Croatian state is co-owner of a large number of companies and we face the fact that it does not charge its claims as a believer. That it is thus saying that 11 billion kunas of government claims were recorded at the 6th month, which is tax, contributions and other public contributions, but it also appears as a bad debtor because it does not pay its dues in time. If the IRS were to react promptly, so if within 2 months the company does not pay taxes and contributions from salaries it means that it does not pay salaries or pay salaries on black. And if he was going to react, there wouldn't be a situation like this with a Frigid case in Kamensky that doesn't pay off for five months. Sometimes even longer than that. If we were to prepare for EU membership in this regard, then we would also respect the EU's non-payment directives, so we would pass the Financial Business Act where such measures would be imposed in order to set the legal deadlines for payment, so as to prescribe criminal provisions in terms of criminal interest and other criminal provisions. But this is how we make the law, we say it will solve the problem. That the state is inactive, I will say, for example, that in a state-owned company where the state has more than 40% co-ownership tolerates not to be paid 2 billion and 200 million kunas of state donations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59279	Thank you. Reply by Mrs. Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59280	Well, Mrs. Zgrebec, I fully agree with your findings, and I must say, unfortunately, in this country, it has become a rule that entrepreneurs do not pay taxes and contributions. It became a rule, so exceptions we have... exceptionally, there are those business entities that pay their obligations to the state. I'm just asking the question how is it possible that banks are very up-to-date, and they're very good at charging their payments to citizens and business entities, and you see the state is not able to do that. Although we also have laws that regulate enforcement and although there is a provision that within 60 days if someone does not pay certain obligations, the state has to go into bankruptcy is completely inert and in no way manages to collect its obligations. Also about the work of state institutions I have to say something else is going on. There are also those taxpayers who have not paid their obligations, taxes and contributions for years, which are under the protection of local policies, where they do not go into supervision, which create millions of losses, while at the same time those companies have been rescheduled by taxpayers and state budgets. It happens in my county, and I believe it also happens in other counties in this Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59281	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to correct a quote from an esteemed colleague who literally said, and I quote, "this bill of law will have the owner amnesty of criminal responsibility." That's absolutely incorrect. So what would that mean by applying some analogy? That bankruptcy laws amnesty one of the criminal responsibilities? On the contrary. The introduction of a new institute in this area, let's say the economy's economy is being introduced where it hasn't been for all of these reasons that we're listening to in the course of the debate. So it's absolutely unacceptable your thesis, and on this issue, you're based on the whole debate that the bill will free someone from criminal responsibility. That can't be true, that's not true, and that's why I'm correcting that quote for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59283	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59284	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I am correcting the same quote with one add-on, so the responsible persons will be amnesty is not true and that the assets of the companies entering the bankruptcy will not be listed. That's not true either. counterpart Cavlovic says exactly the opposite, and these legal changes do not change the basic principles and norms of the Banking Act. So everything that is applied in normal bankruptcy will also be applied in an accelerated bankruptcy procedure. Only bankruptcy is accelerated to remove these more than 19,000 companies potentially dangerous and to remove other economic operators from the register. It is logical that, in this shortened procedure, data will also be provided on both property and on the liabilities of the company that goes into bankruptcy with the aim of making a settlement to the creditors as soon as possible, and that is exactly the basic objective of this law. Protection of creditors and another shift in the implementation of the economic recovery programme, which is successfully implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59285	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59286	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague who's corrected an incorrect quote, and I'm going to concentrate on one another who's stuck to me, which is that a shortened bankruptcy procedure won't contribute to economic recovery. I think it's incorrect because you can't convince my colleagues to pull off their own bankruptcy and lead to despair and employees, etc. can't be certain that it doesn't contribute to economic recovery. But in any case, I believe that this part will help let's just say the dynamicization of the labour market, which we talked about last week. When the process is completed, it will certainly be part of the employees available on the labour market, but the introduction of order in this area can only contribute to economic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59287	Thank you. We still have Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Before I say it's been 13.24 hours to discuss 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a few sentences about this bill and the additions to the bankruptcy law for one reason only, there is no such direct impact on economic activity such as this Bankruption Act and these amendments. After tax laws and others that provide a framework for economic activity, this is one law that directly affects both the activity of both the economy and the economic picture and the employment and unemployment. And that's why I called to warn you of some things. We've heard here about bankruptcy and whirlwind. So bankruptcy and whirlwind began in 2000, when economic policy became a bankruptcy policy, when it was not chosen under which conditions the conditions were not met legally for the bankruptcy of companies, but under political pressure, the choice that companies would go into bankruptcy that did not. So those who met the requirements of the law did not go, and those who did not have to go into forced bankruptcy. This actually created the second phase of privatisation, and thousands and thousands of people remained on the road to unemployment. The bankruptcy policy has led us to such a situation that the bankruptcy proceedings in 20 companies were conducted by one and the same bankruptcy manager. Then we can imagine what that led to. For example, for 16 years, a bankruptcy procedure was conducted here at Glumina's bank. I hope and believe that this amendment and the addition of the law will contribute never again to such history. I would also like to commend this law in terms of the promotion and demystification of the total debt of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, if debt has grown terribly in recent years, and banks could not be in debt abroad because of regulatory measures, the debt of the central state has not grown so much, so who was in debt? Mr. Fantomic Company Ministers who are registered with 20 thousand kuna and have no employees. They received foreign loans, bought the best tourist destinations in the Republic of Croatia, did not repay loans, did not pay interest, only credited interest. It's just a register and nobody's doing anything about it. This law is an instrument and I congratulate you on it to speed up such forced bankruptcy. Let the creditors enroll in the ownership of these properties that they purchased and imagine ino the debt of the Republic of Croatia will be reduced by 10 billion euros so that none of the unemployed will lose their jobs, none of the consequences negative, direct foreign investment will increase, and these companies will wait with economic activity. In 10 years, in five years, eight years, they don't have any kunas of income. And this law is an excellent instrument to finally get the team into the end, to simply collect their assets, register, what they own, thereby reducing ino debt, and increasing direct investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59289	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Probably tomorrow. And I announce now that the break is up to 15.00 hours, we begin with the item of the agenda of the Proposal Act on the process of confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminality and violation of the Final Bill. Bon appétit. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Supplements to the bankruptcy law. It was an emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 594. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Ana Lovrin. I would like the representative of the motionary of the Secretary of State to declare the amendments. First Legislative Committee, Amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59291	The amendment is not accepted, since we accept Mrs. Lovrin's amendment, and they're in a certain... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59292	Despite the order, I withdraw
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59293	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Then we have Mrs. Anne Lovrin's amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59294	That amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59295	This one's accepted. Thank you. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Banking Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The final proposal for a law supplementing the bankruptcy law was adopted unanimously by 104 votes, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we continue with the session and move on to - Final proposal of the Law on the process of confiscation of property, property benefit achieved by criminal offence, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 595 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary Ms Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59297	Honorable MPs and MPs. The first time before you is the Act on the Abuse of Assets Procedure, the property benefit achieved by a criminal offence. The confiscation of property benefits by taking away the crime and the violation is an extremely important measure that expresses the principle that no one can retain the property and property benefit that he has achieved by committing the crime. It has significant effects to prevent crime, especially those involved in organised crime and corruption. The law regulates the procedure for the determination of the property benefit achieved by the criminal offence, the procedure for the confiscation of the property benefit obtained by the criminal offence, the procedure for the confiscation of property and the property on which the temporary confiscation measure is laid down, and the jurisdiction and authority of the management body for the confiscation of the property. The rights of persons damaged by criminal acts and the protection of the rights of third parties. The conduct of decisions by foreign judicial authorities. Now the provisions on the confiscation of property benefit in the applicable legislation are contained in several different laws, such as the Criminal Procedure Act, the USKOK Act, the Infringement Act, the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. So the law seeks to confiscate property obtained by a criminal offence and to regulate it with a single, transparent and complete provision in one legal regulation. The law is a lex specialis for the process of confiscation of property benefits achieved by criminal act and violation. It prescribes that the decision to withdraw is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the court. The material legal provisions establishing the obligation to confiscate the property benefit resulting from a criminal offence and infringement are set out in Articles 82. The Penal Code and Article 76 Violent law. The confiscation of the property benefit of a criminal offence is a subsidiary property claim, i.e. it shall be taken into account if, or in the part where the injured party has failed to comply with the property legal requirement. The process of confiscation of property benefit under the law may be conducted before, during and after the end of the criminal proceedings. It is an important paper which, according to the existing provisions of material and procedural legislation, we did not have, and this law regulates the conduct and if there is no adequate or constitutional criminal decision, judgment, because the prosecution could not or could not be carried out because there are circumstances that exclude prosecution. According to the law, a proposal for the establishment of a criminal offence may be submitted until the expiry of the time-limit of antiquity of the initiation of a criminal proceedings and the limitation cannot take place before the expiry of a five-year period counting from the date on which the offence was committed. Furthermore, the provisions of the laws governing the confiscation of property benefit procedure prescribe the conduct in the event of termination of criminal proceedings, the achievement of bankruptcy proceedings for a legal person, and the delivery of data relevant for the determination of the facts necessary for the decision-making of the law by the state authorities, banks or other legal and natural persons. It has been established that an insurance procedure under the law presupposes the existence of a danger that the request of the Republic of Croatia for the confiscation of the property benefit achieved by the criminal offence will not be possible or that its achievement will be difficult if the temporary measure is not determined. This is an important provision that greatly increases the efficiency of action. Provisional security may take a maximum period of 60 days after the court has notified the applicant that the judgment has become final or valid. The Republic of Croatia is responsible for the damage caused by the temporary measure in order to ensure the confiscation of the property benefit resulting from a criminal offence, which the proposal for the determination of the provisional measure has been submitted by the damage as a prosecutor or a private prosecutor for damage to which the interim measure corresponds to the damaged or private prosecutor. In order to confiscate the property benefit resulting from a criminal offence on a proposal by the Prosecutor, it shall be determined and implemented under a special law if this law is not otherwise prescribed. The property over which a temporary insurance measure has been established is being handled by the Central State Office for State Property Management. The Office may, without prior publication of a public tender under certain conditions, take a decision to sell temporarily withdrawn mobile items or rights, and may decide to suspend or sublet things in accordance with their purpose. The law regulates the enforcement of decisions by foreign judicial authorities by applying a special law to the Member States of the European Union as from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to membership in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59298	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee of Justice, President of the Committee, Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by the criminal offence and violation of the Justice Committee has been examined as a parent body. Members of the board unanimously supported the bill. The opinion is that the process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal acts and infringements makes it clear in the proposed way that there is no effective fight against crime and corruption unless effective confiscation mechanisms are established for the benefit of the criminal offence and offence obtained. With the support of this proposal for a law establishing the procedure and measures for the confiscation of property benefits, it is pointed out that the need to question existing mechanisms or the need to introduce new ones to effectively confiscate the property benefit obtained by criminal acts. The debate pointed out that the provision of Article 1(3) should also be sterilised in a way that is clear in the determination of the subsidiary application of other laws governing this matter in relation to this law as a roof, and that the provision of paragraph 6 of that Article is unnecessary in the light of the name of the law, setting out the issues to be settled by law. For the sake of clarity of the text, it is proposed to amend paragraph 1 of Article 3 in a way that reads: certain expressions have the following meaning. The opinion was also given that legislation should be considered in the ordinary procedure in order to intervene in certain provisions for improvement. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Act on the confiscation of property benefit procedure achieved by criminal act and violation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59300	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State. Okay, thank you. Is there any more interest in committees? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59301	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club welcomed this bill with great expectations, believing that we really need a special law that will regulate the confiscation of the property benefit that has been achieved by criminal acts or acts and offences. We've always been in our legal system, more specifically in the Penal Code, we've had a provision that will be obtained by a criminal act taken away. And that was one principle. However, since this principle had no provisions to be discussed, almost a dead letter remained on paper over time. On several occasions, as a SDP club, we were advocates to supplement the law, Penal Code, the CAP as much as it takes to say that the property created by the criminal offence would be taken away. The fight against organised crime is not possible with all the repressive apparatus, with all the efforts if organised crime is better said to their carriers not to cut off nutrients, which is money. As it is, therefore, not only those who have been brought to justice but also the whole organized mile behind them, but only in the case of the case in question, it is necessary to pay particular attention to the confiscation of property benefits, but in a modern way, not in one stereotype, one principled, declared that has existed in our legal system forever, therefore, and that did not satisfy the problem that arises. Disposal of property benefit in one better way has already been regulated by changes in the CAP and the KZ. Now we have this bill. Based on the example of fighting the mafia, organised crime, Italy and this Milani group, which therefore corresponds to a court in Milan, the first procedure was freezing property, regardless of how the case will end. I remind you, I think it's almost of the importance of European proportions if not broader because it is tried by that group except extortion, murder, and it is tried for a single crime that I am using this opportunity, and we must consider incorporating it. We'll see how the creature of this crime is put together. Namely, this crime, which this Milani group has been brought in for, and is being tried for, is causing a climate of fear because the mafia, organised crime, is precisely acting in this climate of fear and the climate it is causing. It may be a great abstraction for us, but it is impossible to reach witnesses, to do what is necessary at all in order for someone to be executed, let alone not be condemned if you have a widespread climate of fear. We also see in these recent and most powerful examples that take place in front of the Croatian judiciary why some things are just coming out right now. Not because some things were not known, but because there was a certain climate of fear. So let's keep going to our further history when we're talking about committing war crimes. Not because I say that some things, I repeat, were not known but because there was such an inadequate climate in which those who would gladly respond and offer their contribution to detecting and processing, then also punishing such perpetrators, which was simply such an air conditioning that it did not allow. Personal fear, fear for yourself, for your family, for the workplace, etc. The SDP club supports law-making, but we are opposed to law-making by emergency procedure for the simple reason that we believe that the law is no-technically bad, it is not well done and we would have passed the law quickly, and we all really want to bring it as soon as possible, but since we have waited so far, nothing significant will happen that we may wait another 15 days, a month as long as it takes the government. Here's what we heard from a representative of the HDZ Club who said on behalf of the board that these things had to be fixed. Namely, I will now look back on just a few nomotechnical errors that are unacceptable in one law, especially of this kind that must be so precise, use terms. Therefore, the Court follows the rules of criminal proceedings. So he follows the terms of the Penal Code or the Penal Code. Or some of the stuff that's been embroidered with that. So these are some terms that are not even used by experts in one of these personal, one of these kind of colloquial excuses, let alone in one law that needs to be as precise as possible. And now that I'm not talking about these things individually, and otherwise there's this law that's got these things that can't be amended, I'm going to say something about the contents. Namely, why was I specifically talking about criminal law and the CAP? Because they already have regulated principles and certain provisions on the confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal activity and violation. This law sets out these matters, however, it is absolutely unclear which court will, although this law says it is possible to take away this property benefit during and after the proceedings and before, during and after the proceedings. Since it is not said which cases will be handled by the judge who has received such a criminal case whether he has to determine and confiscate property benefit or will, of course, wait for everyone to take a line of less resistance, so he will wait, I will judge and determine, make a decision on the main matter, and the confiscation of property may be given to another court. So this law allows, therefore, that some other court is simply a law, the bill says local jurisdiction and does not say which is the really competent court. Is that a criminal court? Is that a litigation court? Is that an outside court? These are the things that need to be solved. It's inadmissible, because that's what cost us. So that provision we had in court will take away property benefits. Or no, no one can keep it. So that was more progress. This was a principle no one can keep the property benefit acquired by a criminal act. But nothing is said which court will judge and whether the courts will do so because it takes a long time. But it should, because everything else leads to stretching and ineffectiveness. That's what we want to change. And the courts then referred to the case, they took away any rifle or means of execution, or any knife, a means of committing a crime, and they didn't do it. Because it was not explicit that the judges in the criminal proceedings would carry out a process of confiscation of property benefits, not waiting for the trial but also at an earlier stage. So, depending on how the bill becomes, and how we agree here, or what is the proposal's opinion. So this is where you talk about it, about these possibilities, and you don't talk about who's going to take it. And knowing the situation in the judiciary, and it's quite acceptable for people to behave like that. So, a little who's going to swear that he's the one in charge. Waiting for a damageor or for a state attorney to start before one body or another, also assessing his good will before which court and which actual jurisdiction he or she will launch and even from the point of view of legal certainty is not acceptable. Because in one procedure, it may be requested immediately, may be requested during the procedure, may be requested after the criminal proceedings have been carried out. And any delay is a danger that organised crime still does not get its nutrition, is used by the food chain, i.e. on that nutritious basis, or living money. It needs to be interrupted and it needs to be spelled out. I think that such a bill should be not only a special law in terms of specific provisions, but it should contain those provisions which should be managed by a criminal court and which should decide on guilt, or on all aspects that are important during the trial. That should be left to the criminal court. Because then the message to the public is different. It is different than when, after the power of decision, a judicial court does so without diminishing the importance and authority, each has its own real competence and scope of affairs. But these are please allow, no matter what it is about the property benefits of things that are so important and that carry a message to the public about which they should. And therefore, regardless of its free assessment, it is always as it decides on guilt and decisions on criminal sanctions and costs that should be decided on this issue, so after the guilt, after making the decision and the property benefit. But also in all specific cases, and then the law should be specified when deciding to confiscate property benefits even before deciding on guilt, that is, criminal sanctions itself, criminal sanctions. This is what all modern legislation has, and it is our duty to pass such a law. So, leaving open options isn't allowed us in the SDP club in this kind of legal matter. It should be as precise as possible and as specific and ultimately clear as possible and as clear as possible to give instructions to the judges in an unequivocal way to deal with what the citizens are expecting. What we also think at the SDP club is very important, and that is indeed an ex ante disfellowshipping the banking secret in Article 9. That's possible. That's what we have to do, because the banks often say another one that's gone makes a lot of noise. So then they say... to give that information, but they represent for us a business secret or a banking secret. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've already enjoyed that, even though we've passed good laws. Many achievements and the application of these laws are whispered precisely because banks are called unfounded to the banking secret as if the Banks Act were more important than our Penal Code, than our ZKP, than our Law on Prosecution. This has never been the case in some legal system, but they feel that laws are of equal importance. And that's because it's already happening that way. We have to shut it down. When Article 5 is said that the state will register on these properties, some public registers are spoken of. We all know that both the cadastre and the landowner is a public register, but there are some other public registers and we have enough cadastre and land. Well, he shouldn't be so general. So I'm linking it to those preliminary nomotechnical remarks. By making such a bill, we must, or by adopting it, I hope that the motioner will adopt these remarks to go into regular procedure, to fix these things. So we'd get a good mechanism. It would be a good instruction and prevention to all those who commit such crimes not only to the execution of prison sentences, but also to be left without that property entirely. I also ask the promoter to make sure that criminals, criminal miles, have nothing registered on them. They don't even have honest citizens because they're sloppy in taking care of their land-a-book situation and it's been embroidered still with big problems and with certain material costs that hold them back, even those who would... But they knowingly avoid recording their assets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's always, not even on their connected persons, in terms of blood relatives, or the Tabian kinship, it's on the connected person. So what we need to do here is, in particular, introduce the concept of connected people, these are people to all those who come in contact, who are their friends, acquaintances, essentially part of this criminal mile. This has been ignored, and we will then have equal difficulty, as we have difficulty collecting alimony from an irresponsible parent who has nothing on him. We make laws, measures, action plans, and we remain inefficient. So we have to face the problem that criminals don't have registered assets, that she's on who knows what names, but we need to find a way to record these assets and that regardless... to be taken away, for the procedure will determine how it was obtained. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59302	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59303	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of a law on the process of confiscation of property, property benefit achieved by criminal act and violation. And right at the beginning, I will say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will propose to the promoter that this law go to a second reading, i.e. to be adopted in a regular procedure. It is also because of what we have already heard from the representative of the second club, because of some ambiguities it is good that this legal text is being processed, and at this stage it is difficult to do with amendments. Namely, the Croatian Democratic Community club is very supportive of this law, primarily for the reasons it will do the most for sanctioning, but also for preventing criminal offences, especially property crimes, corruption and organised crime, but also for all those others because it is only for thieves and criminals who are going into criminal conduct to attract some material, or immaterial benefit, of course the worst punishment except for the prison and to take away what they have obtained. Therefore, in the sense of this law, it is good because it regulates provisions in one place, i.e. sublime the provisions of several laws which are so far, in which so far it has been arranged, as we have heard in the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on BUSKOK, the Criminal Law, the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. But in this way, this matter will be uniquely arranged, and it will be clear that there will be certain procedures because, as it has been said, the basic postulate of criminal law that no one can keep benefiting from the criminal act, unless the procedure and method of confiscation of those benefits is clearly established, then it will remain only a dead letter on paper, or those to whom this could happen will in any way seek holes and ways that never occur. As this general postulate is, therefore, that no one can keep benefiting from the acquired crime, I repeat, and I may already be boring, but indeed the proponent to consider effective ways and mechanisms to take away that other non-proprietary benefit, so we have a lot of benefit from the goods acquired by criminal acts, and that in the judgments made in relation to these offences nothing is said about how they will return, or undo the rights acquired by this criminal act, nor are situations solved who will seek to do so, certain erasures, etc., etc. So maybe now that I'm not overly detailed about this law, we've heard everything from the proposer, so what's being arranged for it. Procedure for the determination of the property benefit, the insurance procedure, the procedure of enforcement, the treatment of the seized property, the exercise of the right of the damaged person, the damage to the criminal offence and the protection of the rights of third parties. Here you should consider, a colleague spoke of the fact that it was not clear who was in charge of this procedure. The law says the procedure is being initiated at the prosecutor's request. Well, then, the prosecutor, it explains in the term who the prosecutor is, so the attorney general or the other attorney-in-law. If this law is not different, that law says, but the question is whether you can think about some solutions to make there, that court is... to make it stronger and stronger. [[You don't understand.]] There is also a certain court procedure, an insurance seizing of property benefits, but here I dare say in the full text of this law, in a series of articles the provisions are not clear enough, the numbering of articles and items to which they are called are wrong, i.e. probably by mistake or by some mistake, so all of this needs to be regulated, terminology, nomotechnics and terminology should be aligned with the terminology that is similar to the legal text. Also in Article 3, for example, where the meaning of certain terms is to be said, not if it is not otherwise prescribed, but that certain expressions have the following meaning in this law, and then they should be clearly defined. For example, under point 12 says the office, so the Office is the Central State Office for State Property Management or another body designated by law. Now that the text here says that the stolen property is managed by the office, then we don't know if it's the Central Office of State Property Management or any other office. That's not how norms go, so that's the way it's supposed to be done. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I mean, I don't know how you're someone who has to apply this law, so it's all got to be done with a term. So here, but the proposer is aware of it all, so let's not list it now, it will certainly be settled until the second reading. And I ask the promoter because we need this law as another effective anti-corruption tool, but that doesn't mean that we haven't had until now in the Criminal Procedure Act and in the USKOK Law that we didn't have the mechanisms of confiscation of property benefit or seized property before and before the power of judgment and extended confiscation of property benefit. So it can be done now, but it would certainly be better quality to process it by a new law and therefore I ask the Proposer to come as soon as possible with the final draft of the law regulated in accordance with the remarks of the debate. As for banking secrets as well as so far, this law also highlights the fact that banks and now, according to the court's order, provide information, but here is Article 9 so it is emphasized that state bodies, banks, other legal entities and natural persons, by order of the court, must provide data. So I think it's strong enough to apply it to them. What I would also point out in Article 15 of the proposal to consider where it is said about ensuring the confiscation of property benefits. Therefore, this is when the insurance promoter is authorised before, during and after the end of the procedure to propose to ensure that the confiscation is ensured. Therefore, the entry into force of a temporary ban on alienation, etc., but here we have it in Article 15 is said that if that application has been lodged before the initiation of the guarantee procedure it will be suspended by a provisional measure if, within 2 years of the date on which that measure has been established, no charge has been confirmed, a particular debate on the basis of a private action or a proposal, etc. I think this one, that should be selectively approached. That this two-year-old insurance is too long for those acts that are being prosecuted in a private lawsuit. Namely, for more serious crimes of major property scale, it is okay if it is a complex procedure that it may be possible to pass a longer period until the prosecution is confirmed, but really to block someone's assets where someone's private persecution is, in a private lawsuit, I think it's inappropriate to block someone's assets for 2 years, that no decision is made because these don't have to be acts of serious crime, they can be smaller amounts and fewer serious acts since they're prosecuted for private purposes. Here and finally, with all these remarks about clarity and more precise determination in the legal text, I would only point to two provisions in the final, transitional and final provisions. I warn in Article 31 that paragraph 2 would, in my opinion, involve retroactiveness, which is not in fact necessary or important in order to apply this exception constitutional and legal exception. In this regard, it is said that the procedures in the cases of insurance, confiscation and enforcement of the decision to confiscation of the property benefit achieved by a criminal offence in which a first-degree decision has been taken until the date of entry into force of this law to continue according to the rules which were then in force. But in paragraph 2, it says if no insurance decision has been taken, but the procedure has been initiated. Or a first-degree decision has been abolished and it has been reinstated that it will then be followed by the provisions of this law. In my opinion, this would be retroactiveness and I think it should be avoided since it requires then special procedures. And even the exercise of a powerful decision in part of the exercise is proposed according to the rules in force until then. And in Article 34, this paragraph 2 I mean no-technically however legally it is not possible that the bill of one law actually enrolls amendments to the texts of other laws. This law can therefore be put outside the scope of a provision under other laws, but not intervened in a particular word in the article of another law. Here and finally, the HDZ Club once again supports and wants this law to be voted and passed as soon as possible in order to more effectively subtract profits obtained by criminal acts because we believe that this is an extremely important link in the fight against organised crime and corruption, but also against the crime of all forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59304	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59305	Well, here's almost everything I would support except for one incorrect allegation, maybe my colleague didn't understand me correctly when I criticized it, so I felt it was necessary to correct it for the sake of clarity in the law, my colleague said it wasn't, therefore, quoting my words: "it's not clear who's running the procedure, but it's clear that it's being run by state departments." It is not disputed, but it is disputed who will lead the proceedings, or which court? Different possibilities have been left. I'm particularly apostrophysing this and I think it needs to be fixed because it's crucial. So, will he be led by a criminal court and a judge, will he be led by an outsider judge or a litigator? This should be defined, and if different opportunities are left to be taxed, in which case the judge, who determines, or conducts such proceedings, shall be taxed. And my suggestion is that it should be led by a criminal judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59306	Thank you. And State Secretary Ms Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59307	Thank you, Mr. President. Respecting the proposals and observations and the SDP Representatives' Club and the HDZ Representatives' Club, as well as the proposals of the Legislative Committee and the Justice Committee, the Proposer accepts the proposal that the law goes into the ordinary procedure i.e. to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59308	So we're discussing the law as a first reading. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associate, colleague and colleague. This is another law from a set of laws that we have on the agenda today, and after which we can make it loud and happy to say finally. It gives us a law that fully implements the principle that no one can acquire or retain property obtained by criminal acts and violations. One part of the law takes over existing provisions from other laws, and the other largely builds on the area of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal acts and systematises the whole process of processing, confiscation and management of those assets. Since the statement of the law itself is here we support the proposal of the predecessor and we look forward to the fact that the motionor has accepted to go to another reading, because there is obviously still plenty of room to specify certain provisions or expressions of the provisions. In this regard, we would like to consider, as already under item 12 of the agenda, amendments to the USKOK Act, delete in this law paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 34 and install from the USKOK Act. And in the end, without too many objections, the HNS and HSU club will support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59310	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59311	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the proposal for a law on the process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal acts and offences. The confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal acts and offences was governed by the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, the Criminal Law, the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. When we know that the confiscation of the property benefit of a measure that must at any time point indicate that no one should criminally and infringe the property benefit then it is clear that, in one place, it is necessary to provide for an orderly, clear and effective way to confiscate the property used by criminal acts and infringements, and which will certainly contribute to the regular procedure of this bill. It should also be pointed out that this proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with international contracts. The proposal regulates the procedure for the determination of the property benefit achieved by the criminal offence, the process of ensuring the confiscation of the property benefit achieved by the criminal offence, the procedure for the enforcement of the decision to confiscation of the property resulting from the criminal offence, the treatment of the seized property over which a temporary confiscation measure, the exercise of the right of the person to damage the criminal offence and the protection of the rights of a third party is laid down. In view of the fact that this law is a lex specialis for the process of confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal acts and infringements, that the decision to confiscate property benefit is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the court, and that this legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, I am of the opinion that the proposal of the Law on the seizing of the property benefit procedure achieved by criminal act and infringement should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59312	Thank you. Mr. Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59313	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. So here is the law on the process of confiscation of property benefits achieved by criminal acts and infringements, so it seeks to determine in full the procedure for determining insurance, confiscation of management, confiscation of property or property benefit obtained by illegal acts, criminal acts and offences. The procedure has so far been governed by the provisions of several rules, the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, as it is said, of material legal provisions which are in fact the basis of the arrangements of this law, are contained in Article 82. The Penal Code and Article 76 Infringement law and the obligation to confiscate property benefit by criminal act and violation. The latest amendments and additions to the 2008 Penal Code allow the provisions of Article 82 to confiscate the property benefit achieved in any period during which absolute limitation has not occurred regardless of the power of such a judgment. In order to combat organised crime and corruption more effectively, the same article has already been amended and has been aligned with the Council of the European Union Framework Decision of 24 February 2005 on the confiscation of cases, assets and assets acquired by criminal acts. As for the Institute of Property Abuse, he rests in all modern criminal laws, including in Croatia on the principle that no one can gain or retain the property benefit he has illegally obtained, which he has achieved by committing a criminal offence or offence. Some countries in their criminal laws are treating the Institute in different ways of confiscation of property benefits. Some conduct it through the measure of confiscation of a case considered to be a penalty or special judicial measure. Other countries, however, treat it as a security measure or a special measure or define it as a special legal consequence of a criminal offence or a secondary penalty. However, in all countries, it always comes from the fundamental principle that no one can retain the property benefit obtained by criminal acts. The important starting point and the newspaper of this law is that confiscation of property benefits is not sanctions, is not a security measure, nor does an ex-legis appear as a legal consequence of a conviction. The property benefit would be taken away on the basis of a court ruling with the fact that it is sufficient to carry out an illegal act, regardless of the illegality and guilt itself, so that the proceedings themselves could be conducted before, during and after the criminal proceedings have ended. I also find it extremely important to consider legal solutions which are very clearly referred to in the application of the Executive Act in the process of confiscation of property benefits. In fact, the solutions to certain applicable property legislation regulations in relation to the confiscation of property benefit are not fully resuscitated, so they have not fully recovered and have proved ineffective in practice. This proposal for a law as one of its fundamental provisions provides that the decision to determine and confiscate benefits is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the court, and the court shall make it on a proposal from the Prosecutor or on official duty. In this procedure, which determines and confiscates property benefits, the law provides for and prescribes the protection of the rights of the person whose property is treated as well as the rights of the injured as well as third parties, which is also very significant. In connection with the right of the injured, it is predicted that the property legal requirement has the advantage of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by a criminal offence, which means that the exercise could only be determined to the extent to which it will not prevent a complete settlement of the damages. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the law that is before us, that is, the Law on the seizing of property benefit procedure achieved by criminal acts and the offence is extremely important because, for example, this institute of confiscation of unlawful benefit, for example, acquired by criminal acts, acts of organised crime or some other criminal acts, have a certain preventive character. Thus, it sends a clear and unequivocal message to the perpetrator that such an act will not be paid, that he will not be able to enjoy the fruits of the illegal gain of property or committed by criminal act or offence. I agree, and I support this proposal that the law goes into second reading, which is what the motioner also agreed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59314	Thank you. And another debate, individual, respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and fellow MPs. It's very short, since we've heard the presentations in front of clubs and from individual representatives. I adhere to the opinions of my colleagues because we have discussed on the Committee on Law and Justice that the law should not go into emergency proceedings but rather go to another reading to get these formal legal and nomotechnical matters in order, because this is one of the most important laws, this is a legitimate specialis law that needs to be specifically processed and it is in a series of anti-corruption measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I think that the Ministry of Justice and the Government should make special efforts to bring this law into line with both international conventions and agreements taken over by the Republic of Croatia and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in order to finally have one law that will be a clear message to organised crime and the mafia in Croatia that all that has been acquired by criminal acts, criminal offences, cannot have the property benefit, that the ultimate perpetrator of the crime in the Republic of Croatia will, in future, think that all that has been obtained by criminal acts, and not at the time of the crime, but also 10 years ago, will be asked when the property is proven whether the property is acquired in a legal or illegal manner. This puts organised crime and mobs at risk both their family and their successors that all that they have committed by criminal acts and violations in the Republic of Croatia may be questioned and that two or three times they will consider whether to go to criminal offences and whether organised crime, when such laws are really hardened in the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia, will indeed be respected, that this will be a clear message of our Government's orientation on the ultimate fight against corruption and zero tolerance on organised crime. I support my colleagues in these comments we made in front of the Justice Committee and the Legislative Committee because I think the law should be formally regulated legally and nomotechnically. What is important in this law is the experience of our neighbouring countries where in one of them more than 200m euros has been seized under this law, that we in the Republic of Croatia have had experience that the German court has requested that the property of one of the suspects be blocked in the Republic of Croatia because there are reasonable doubts that this property has been acquired in an illegal manner. I think that as soon as possible, the law should be returned to the parliamentary procedure, because indicators of European countries' experience say that in this way many assets are returned to the state's register, that not this way is taken away from all that has been illegally acquired and I think it is never too late for such laws, but it needs to be done specifically. He is extremely important and even dangerous in himself because everything that is a threat to someone poses a threat to him who brings him. So we need to make a special effort, give a clear message, give clear opinions. Today we have passed a large series of judicial laws which are the basis for the closure of Chapter 23. I consider one of these criminal laws, the Code of Criminal Procedure, to be one of the key laws. I support the bill's proposal and I support all these comments we made in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59316	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59317	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Act on the procedure of confiscation of property benefit, committed by criminal act and violation. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 595. The debate is closed. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the proposal to discuss this legislative proposal in the first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: first of all, the proposal for a law on the seizing of property benefit proceedings achieved by criminality and violation is accepted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on this conclusion. The result? The conclusion was accepted by the majority of 109 votes in favour, one abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59318	We move to the 11th point of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 600 Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59319	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected and esteemed MPs and MPs. This law establishes municipal and county and commercial courts and administrative courts and determines their areas and determines the seats in which they will operate. Under the now applicable Law on Areas and Courts in the Republic of Croatia, 67 municipal courts, 21 county courts and 13 commercial courts were established. This law began the process of rationalising municipal courts, which will be realised by the end of 2019 according to the dynamics of the merger of certain municipal courts. In the implementation of the judicial reform, it was necessary to approach further rationalisation of the judicial network in a way to approach the irrationalisation of county and commercial courts. On the basis of an analysis carried out on the number of cases, an annual inflow of cases, the number of judges in county and commercial courts, the Ministry of Justice proposes that this law so far establish a total of 21 county courts and determine their territory and headquarters, as well as areas and seats of municipal courts from the jurisdiction of each particular county court. Certain county courts pursuant to Article 14(2). The law on courts is established for areas of several counties. Under the law, it is proposed that six county courts be attached to other county courts, so that the following county courts are established: the County Court in Bjelovar, the County Court in Dubrovnik, the County Court in Karlovac, the County Court in Osijek, the County Court in Pula, the County Court in Rijeka, the County Court in Slavonski Brod, the County Court in Sisak, the County Court in Split, the County Court in Sibenik, the County Court in Varazdin, the County Court in Velika Gorica, the County Court in Vukovar, the County Court in Zadar and the County Court in Zagreb. And according to the proposal of this Act, the following county courts are joined together: The County Court in Bjelovar is joined by the County Court in Koprivnica and Virovitica, the County Court in Karlovac, the County Court in Gospić, and the County Court in Slavonski Brod is joined by the County Court in Požega. The County Court in Varazdin is being joined by the County Court in Čakovec and the County Court in Zlatar. The bill also establishes 7 commercial courts of 13 trade courts now established. The following commercial courts are proposed: Bjelovar Commercial Court, Osijek Commercial Court, Rijeka Commercial Court, Split Commercial Court, Varazdin Commercial Court, Zadar Commercial Court and Zagreb Commercial Court. Trade courts that merge are: The Commercial Court in Zagreb is joined by the Commercial Court in Karlovac and Sisak. The trade court in Split is being joined by the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik. The trade court in Zadar is being joined by the Trade Court in Sibenik. The trade court in Osijek is being joined by the Trade Court in Slavonski Brod. The Trade Court in Rijeka is being joined by the trade court in Pazin. The Ministry of Justice will carry out a rationalisation of the network of county and commercial courts by 31 December 2019, in accordance with the dynamics of providing the necessary conditions for work, technical equipment as well as the provision of spatial conditions for the purposes of these courts. The Croatian Parliament passed a new Law on Administrative Disputes to establish administrative courts as first-degree courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia as a second-degree court. Since this law will apply from 1 January 2012, the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts has been required to establish the areas and seats of administrative courts. This law establishes four administrative courts and determines their seats and areas, so that each individual administrative court is established for the area of several counties. This bill proposes that the following administrative courts be established: Administrative Court in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. These courts will begin on 1 January 2012 until the Ministry of Justice provides work space and technically equips courts in those seats. Since the current Law on Areas and Seats of Courts lays down implementing rules on the dynamics and mergers of municipal courts and thus the Regulation laying down deadlines for the provision of working, spatial, technical and other conditions in the courts’ seats of mergers and decisions establishing permanent services in municipal courts suggests that those documents remain in force on 31 December 2019 in order to implement the rationalisation of municipal courts in accordance with the deadlines laid down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59320	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I don't see any board. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59321	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Courts. Today, when we discuss the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed as a continuation of activities in the reform of the judicial system and the rationalisation of the network of courts should be reminded of some important segments of rationalisation. The government of the Republic of Croatia concluded in 2007 that the process of rationalising the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia was inefficient and in economical. The process began in 2008 by streamlining the network of municipal courts in a way that since then, the existing 115 municipal courts have established 67 municipal courts. After that, in 2009, the rationalisation of criminal courts has followed in a way that since then 63 criminal courts have been established. When rationalising the network of municipal and criminal courts, the applicant also proposed a new network based on an analysis of the number of cases, the annual inflow of cases, the number of judges. The same criteria led the applicant by proposing a rationalisation of county and trade courts. Following this proposal, instead of 21 county courts have been established so far, 15 county courts are proposed, while the established rationalisation of municipal courts is in line with the rationalisation of county courts. From now on, 13 commercial courts are established by this proposal and seven commercial courts are prescribed to settle disputes relating to ships and navigation at sea and inland waters and disputes to which the shipping law applies, other than disputes relating to aircraft and air navigation rights, passenger transport, protection and use of industrial property, copyright and related rights and other intellectual property rights, protection and use of inventions and technical promotions and companies, if the special law is not otherwise specified. Furthermore, the draft law lays down municipal courts of consensual jurisdiction which will not act in criminal proceedings for criminal offences for which the sentence of prison has been prescribed for more than 5 to 10 years, in civil proceedings on the establishment or dispute of paternity or motherhood from working relationships, for the correction of information and compensation incurred by the publication of information, protection from illegal activity, and the recognition of the execution of decisions by foreign courts. It is specifically about island municipal courts in Rab, Krk, Mali Losinj, Pag, Starograd and Supetar. The proposal also lays down the areas and seats of four administrative courts, so that each individual administrative court is established for the area of several counties, to which the minister of justice must provide work space and technically equip the courts at the courts' headquarters by 30 December 2011. Since the new Law on Administrative Disputes has been applicable since 2012, and that the same law establishes administrative courts as the first-degree and High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia as a second-degree court. We believe that it is good that the applicant has determined that the implementation of the rationalisation process takes longer, both in terms of ensuring the necessary working space conditions and the technical equipment of the county and commercial courts in the merger seats, and which the dynamics of ensuring these conditions are passed by the Minister of Justice. The bill also empowers the Minister of Justice to set up permanent services of county and commercial courts outside the court's seat by a special decision, until a decision is taken to ensure the conditions for the court's work at its headquarters. On the basis of this, given that it is final activities to streamline the network of courts, and judicial reform, as well as the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59322	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. There will be nothing new when you hear that the SDP club opposes the adoption of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, and for one simple reason that the courts are being abolished, and we have been practicing to abolish the courts of municipal jurisdiction, which in practice has proved to have changed the real board, even the registers remain the same. Or you have an absurd case, immediately for example the court, the city court in Biograd, has to register the entry in Zadar, and then go back to Biograd, and instead of the Municipal Court in Biograd, the inscription of the Municipal Court in Zadar, the place of Biograd. So out of such reform procedures, where the plates change, it's no use. An even greater danger is if there is not only a change of record, but to put a key in the lock of courts, which have already been brought to life, whether it is the courts of county jurisdiction but even more important than courts of commercial courts. If any of them were to be abolished, if any county court is to be abolished, don't touch the trade courts. If all the measures are in place, there is no legislative proposal that the government has not recently submitted that it has not explained that it is aimed at economic recovery. Is this proposal, too, that is, for sure, about judicial matters, about the judicial authorities and the desire to make it as effective as possible, whether the abolition of commercial courts contributes to economic development? The court, or citizen, does not quite, although unfortunately that number has increased, now every three-member family has one dispute before the court, any jurisdiction, I am talking about courts of regular jurisdiction, but still not going to court so often. And as much as every man's case is his, and his case is the most important. For the businessmen to lose one day and go to Split, which is still traffic-insulated, because unfortunately it is still not connected by the highway, which means how many losses it is. But not just for that individual, or that legal person. As much as all the witness costs, the witches, what are the costs. Whether a single financial analysis is done, which means it's a comprehensive analysis. It's not just the size of the city, the number of inhabitants, the number of cases inflows, the number of cases solved, the number of judges, the mathematical calculation, it's all being calculated in 15 minutes, and that's not the problem. The problem, therefore, would be the answer to this problem, which is financial savings. You can't just tell us how many judges we're going to have, because you can't stop those seats anyway. If you close any trade court you intend, or suggest or any county court, you cannot terminate that judge. That judge must have his own chair, his desk, please in which room at the neighbor's court, when they're already overcrowded, and here we've created all the conditions for these courts to work. Let's just remember in the '90s, when you're just moving the feathers, HDZ founded the courts, almost under every pine, and of course there was no means, that all of them, or any reason that these judges, all those courts were working. In our county, in Zadar court in... The court in Nin, why? [[You don't understand.]] Because there was a community court in Preko, we had a public notebook. When is it, gentlemen? When was Zadar Italian, under Italian occupation? Well, that's why it was. But then the logic was that there was once a court there must be. Nin was the old first Croatian royal city, there must be a court there. That was the logic. And what was going on? The courts that didn't work were established. And now you're going to shut down working vessels and doing well. So don't do it. Huge assets are invested in it. For example, only the court in Zlatar 70 million kuna, began another thread, in the mid-90s, in 2002, because it was a shame to stop there when so much money went into construction of the grand building. Now he's going to put the key in the lock of that big building, a court that works well. The huge funds were spent, that's right. What's going to happen now, what's going to be some warehouse in that building? So we can't go from one absurd to another. The truth really is at some small distance that we have two county courts. That probably couldn't have been a much richer country. That should also be agreed on. But in this way, starting to remove the courts, only so much with some kind of administrative indicators isn't good. First of all, all commercial courts must be preserved. ... Well, you haven't looked at your colleague Kulusic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is the trade court in Sibenik that is shutting down and you have to get up first, a colleague of Crlenko will stand up against being a court in Sibenik. ... Oh, my God, we agree with that, and we support it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And before that, I was saying that these things are very important to all of us and to the power of destiny, to the citizens at last. We all come from different fields here. I'll remind you of the story that the late Jadranko Crnic told me back in the '50s and earlier. In Gospić, i.e. Lika-Senjska, they wanted the authorities at the time, and we know what they were like, to close the court. The locals rose up with pitchforks and chased away and the court wasn't closed. Vilama! No commercial courts are to be closed. I think that if we agreed on that, then half the work we've done has been done to please the citizens, the judicial authorities, and all of us. Now let's see what's a little bit about the suspension of the county courts in Koprivnica, Virovitica, Gospić. The County Court in Gospić, when I first saw that building, it was really grand. And many courts in much larger areas have not reached the level of conditions of the County Court in Gospić. There is no county court now because the County Court in Karlovac is being joined by the County Court in Gospić. There really isn't even an inflow of so many objects, many rooms yawning empty... and use it for other purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if it's already the condition it is, if we've allocated enormous resources to such a court. He's in the dark, he's in the glass, why now you just break that court. If it's just an intensity to put a record on it then let it be to you, to figure out that you've made some kind of reform of that board, we'll get over it. But it's even greater damage to put the key in the lock. Because what you're going to do with county courts that have been struggling relatively with the backlogs that have begun, so with all this effort and there's an apparent effort that's been going on for years, that's been dragging as much with greater or less success as in what year. So these courts both in Bjelovar and in Karlovac, Slavonski Brod and in Varazdin are not large courts they have just the equipment for judges. Where will you place now all the judges who will come from Koprivnica and Virovitica to Bjelovar? Where will you place the judges from Gospić, Požega in Slavonski Brod? From Chakovec and Zlatar in Varazdin? Is that what you've been thinking about? Auxiliary all personnel, so the booksellers. You have to answer that question. We have abolished municipal courts here, we have not received the answer, will the existing courts work as outposts please tell us openly or will they put the key in the lock of those courts? I say this is not good, because from the relatively up-to-date courts in both Bjelovar and Karlovac and Slavonski Brod and Varazdin, you will not be saying that these courts that are being attached are certainly an unscheduled court. Is that what we need at this stage? I know that around us someone told you you have a lot of courts. And then what do we do? To remove that remark, we will lift the courts. Well, let's get rid of the cases, and then we'll cancel them if the state is effective and there's a little need for a trial, and that's all it comes to get rid of in time. But that doesn't work out if we close the courts. In fact, that's why our intensity was in 2003 when we almost all of these, except for those in large cities, established trade courts because it was just an emergency when some cities were founded, many cities, here are Zaprešić, and many others and Gorica and some other cities. Local self-government units gave their premises because it was and then the legal possibility of how to help a judicial authority that is always deficited in funds and we see there at the state budget that the Ministry of Justice is the last. So, when everyone settles down, the Justice Department is the last. Therefore, there should be a change in one concept of awareness that first of all all it is necessary to enable the judicial authority all means, and then ask for it to behave properly. When the courts are abolished, what will happen to the costs that you will cause, or what will necessarily cause the courts to be abolished, to the citizens? I say we're far away from the concept that every small place must have its own court because many richer countries don't have it, but you must know that in smaller places lives first of all, and in these smaller centres, lives in the surrounding area mostly a nursing home that doesn't even have its own cars, and if it has no driver's license anymore, which is related to public transport that's disabled in that area. How are these people gonna come? He's gonna have to hire someone to drive them to those parts, to a bigger center. All day long to lose. These are huge expenses for the citizens. Therefore, the financial consequence of the Court’s suspension is a major accumulation of the procedure for citizens. And the state won't save anything on that. And if it saves itself on some united registers and material, it's benign and it's negligible. I know the government's been offered a single remark, and that's a lot of judges, you have a lot of courts. That's easy to get rid of. We'll deal with it, and we'll put an end to it when we deal with the backlogs. If we finally got rid of all the backlogs, then it's finally time to stop and draw the line, let's see which dishes should be left behind, which should necessarily be lifted because they have no purpose at all. For commercial courts, this is primarily the urgency of conduct and the possibility, therefore, because the speed of action is the most needed in trade matters. In trade courts, today we still have captured huge money trapped in commercial courts. If the court in Split still joins a court in Dubrovnik that has become up-to-date, which has a large number of cases, you will hear it better than a colleague Bonačić who will elaborate it and you will see what will happen to the Commercial Court in Split, it will not be able to solve the inflow from Split and the surrounding area. Also with the Trade Court in Zadar if it attaches a court to them in Sibenik. So the economic indicators and the reasons are that here and the state has to launch even bigger mechanisms to speed up the proceedings in front of the trade court, there's a slight change in things, so let's not ruin the good thing. And these other courts, the courts of regular jurisdiction, we must have every insight that it is not just an economic indicator, that courts always through their history and actions mark our legal literacy and our legal history and our self-awareness. This is also widely said about the broader cultural aspect. So those courts also have not only this regular role, but they are thus valorized through history. So let's not take away what's Croatian in free Croatia now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59324	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First of all, she's an esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59325	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. If my terms were secured, I'd start talking. Therefore, the representative incorrectly said that the rationalization of only the modified panels and that the government had managed only one remark through the rationalisation of municipal courts, so only once you have too many courts. It is true, though, that the plates have been changed, but that is not the point of rationalisation, and it would be a representative as a former minister who could know very well that the point of rationalisation is that judges and cases of connected courts become cases and judges of the same court and that they can be dealt with, that judges can specialize in certain areas. And the rationalisation of courts is not a purpose itself and is not a recommendation from the European Commission simply because it is a large number of courts, but because it is one of the measures and ways to ensure professional and effective justice, and then the cases will be reduced accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59326	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59327	I would like to correct my colleague Anticevic's allegations that trade courts are closing. Commercial courts do not close, but, for example, the Dubrovnik Commercial Court joins the Commercial Court in Split. Furthermore, I would like to correct that my colleague has said that we need to lose all day and that the costs are great, for example. from Dubrovnik to Split since there is no highway. The rationalisation of commercial courts is to be carried out by 31.12.2019, and until then the minister is given the duty to form a permanent service outside the court's seat, meaning that he will continue to be outside Split's headquarters in Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59328	And we have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59329	Well, counterpart Anticevic just as counterpart Grbic said she has repeated 100 times in her debate that commercial courts are being shut down. I would be the same against the Trade Court of Sibenik being shut down both in Dubrovnik and in other areas. What Mr Grbić said by 2019, all residents of the town of Sibenik and Dubrovnik and others will be able to teach their cases at the Commercial Court in Sibenik. However, when Mršić throws in Sibenik during the term of office of the former coalition government from 2000 to 2003, the Croatian Roads station was shut down for no reason, and he did not take care of Dalmatia even though she was a minister, but we were not transferred to Zadar but to Split even though we returned it in 2005. At the time, she was not full of the mouth of Dalmatia, and she did not take so much care of Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59330	Thank you. I would pray without throwing out the bench as you ask to ensure normal conditions, allow others to speak as well. Please, Your Honor, it's a good decision to leave. It is the turn of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59331	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Of course you know what I'm going to talk about clearly, there's no dilemma about the trade court in Pazin. I really don't think normal people should support this bill and really why cancel that court. I don't think there's a single reason why he would cancel the trade court in Pazin. The best two things that Sanader's government has done for Istria, and one of those two is, say, this trade court. Now this government has done what it did well before simply abolishing. I do not defend that we understand one another, but I think that by establishing a commercial court in the circumstances when this was done and when it happened it helped both Istria and Croatia and the economy of Istria and far more to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. What's ahead of us, I'd say it's a pure policy. Maybe even a little more concrete politics. I'd almost dare say it's pestilence. Exactly. Someone who calls every day through the New York Stock Exchange or from where new investors come from, someone who keeps talking about the development of this country, who cares about the economy, someone who wants to start an economic recovery all makes such measures or laws that don't happen. That the law of politics is the most eloquent piece of information that I have just received but before I quote this one on the other side, which forms 7 commercial courts. Bjelovar, Rijeka, Osijek, Split, Varazdin, Zadar and means Zagreb. That's number one. I agree, we have big cities, we have one Split, we have one Rijeka, we have normal Zagreb, we have Osijek, but again watch out in one Osijek is let's say 115 thousand people in one Pula is 70 thousand people. The trade court in Zadar remains, we know why, because it is in HDZ's power there. In one Bjelovar, that's why I'm talking about politics, it remains a trade court, why, because it's there in the power of the HSS. In one Varazdin, the court remains because there is a coalition with HDZ in power. But let's even let go of this division, let's say big cities. I guess these commercial courts should primarily be at the service of economic systems, companies, individuals, craftsmen, cooperatives. And then it turns out that the trade court in Pazin, which covers the County of Istria with cca 200 thousand inhabitants, is actually third in the country. By all accounts, third place in the state. The first is Zagreb, but the gentlemen of Zagreb are gravitating over 1 million inhabitants, the second is Split, with over 600,000 inhabitants gravitating and then about 3rd and 4th place sharing Istria with 200 thousand inhabitants and the Primorje-Gorski County with over 300 thousand inhabitants. Here's what it looks like in reality. Active companies, just so I can find it. We in the County of Istria when we talk about societies have 9527 active companies. Who has more than us? There is only Split-Dalmatia County, and I said 600 thousand people to that court in Split. Eleven thousand 437, not full of two thousand more. And more normally, the City of Zagreb has more, but it is still gravitating over a million people, 34 thousand 577 active companies. The river has, say, 200 companies less than Istria. Overall, when we add to this the active crafts of Istria has or Pazina is gravitated by 18402 companies. To find me now this Osijek County, safe and far away, Osijek County only 8715, means 10 thousand less than let's say Istria. Ten thousand less than Istria. And now some great wise man comes to mind that this court should be abolished. Or according to the value of the items, executive and litigation items received in 2008, means the principal free of interest. First place is the City of Zagreb 5.5 billion kuna, second place is Istria or Pazin 3.9 billion kuna, third Rijeka 3.5 billion kuna, etc., etc. But let's do it one more time, let's say these big cities. I'm just asking myself why gentlemen should do this at this point. I claim that's too bad. Let's even let Istria go, but it seems a pity to the economy of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I'm saying that no one needs one of these laws right now. You don't need to cancel, to rely on the words of my predecessor, not a single trade court. It's simply unnecessary at the moment. Finally, a man is now asking himself how much this rationalization will cost us. And here, in the light of this law, it is said that the rationalisation of the network of county trade courts will take place by 31 December 2019, in line with the dynamics. The necessary amount of resources to implement the rationalisation of the network of courts is estimated at EUR 45 million in the period from 2011 to 2019. And then it is further stated here that this law establishes a new system of administrative trial in 2011, the total amount of funds needed for administrative trial amounts to 27 million kuna, of which 25 million kuna goes to staff expenditures, etc., etc. So it just increases costs, doesn't reduce them at all. We gentlemen are certainly not saving this bill, we are spending, but easy to spend, we are doing ourselves harm. And so much of me no one can convince that Europe is the one looking for a law like this. What's Europe got to do with our system of courts, with our network of courts. If that's what he insists on, then he's actually knowingly destabilising our economy and nothing else. And in whose interest is it simply a damage to the Croatian economy? I'm telling nobody. Besides, we're adopting changes, today we've discussed this, this bankruptcy law, we've talked about a shortened bankruptcy procedure. It will be sent overnight through the tax administration, etc. our trade courts have about 19,000 requests for those companies that are currently not hiring any workers. Well, that's what someone needs to do. Who's gonna do it? They've got trade courts to do, and now we're shutting down a network of courts like that. I ask you to be patient with the abolition of these courts until we simply carry out at least the cleansing of those dead economic souls that need to be implemented according to this morning's debated bankruptcy law. It clearly hurts for a previously suspended municipal court in Buzet, but this is still a trade court in Pazin, which is one much more serious thing. Is any kind of savings that Ingrid used to say the same thing was done with this abolishing of these municipal courts, he didn't. It's a shame for everyone, and we have no one to say it to. And I'm going to read you a more or less memo that we all Istria agents got from our trade court so there wouldn't be any improvisation. So they say that according to the draft bill, I quote on the area, the courts' seats, presented at the 71st session of the government, the rationalisation of the network of commercial courts leads to the abolition of these courts, including in Pazin. As early as March 2010, the trade court in Pazin delivered a letter to the Ministry of Justice, which analysed the criteria for the rationalisation of the network of courts established by that ministry, found that the Trade Court in Pazin was in fourth place in view of the criteria behind the Commercial Court in Zagreb, Split and Rijeka, of a total of 13 commercial courts. So, by all accounts, in front of one Osijek and at least four of these commercial courts that will survive this reform or this mutilation. In the absence of any further references, the abovementioned letter of 5 March 2010 is to this effect by comparing the Trade Court in Varazdin, Zadar, Bjelovar, Pazina, etc. And they come up with that data that I just told you about, about the number of economic operators and so on and so forth. I can photocopy it for you so I don't exactly quote each of those items right now. But what's important in Istria again I repeat we have 18402 active companies in the Primorje-Gorski County circus so much, in Zadar 8114. So 10300 less than Istria. We have only 3193 active business entities in Bjelovar-Bilogor County, 15000 less, 15300 less than in Istria. There's a trade court there. It just shuts down in Pazin. Do we want to talk about how many new companies were founded last year? There's no need. But know, gentlemen, once again, I'm talking about these proportions, and it's not normal for you to do damage to us in the ministry. I repeat, 18402 are active legal entities in the County of Istria, in Zadar 8114, 10300 less. In Bjelovar-Biogorje County 3193. I'm looking for Varazdin. But I guess there's no more than how many, that there's no more than 7,8,000 of these subjects. It doesn't matter now. For the end of the Istrian economy as well as all in Croatia, there are many problems. As time comes, we will all have more and more of them, but it is still here according to these figures that I express most dynamically in Croatia. We have the largest export per capital of all Croatian counties. There's still the slightest unemployment down there. We have relatively stable large systems, relatively. Here today, the Ulnik of Bruxella was finally given the consent that he could make contracts for the construction of ships, that he was not a society in difficulty unlike other shipyards in the Republic of Croatia. In the budget, I am sure that the residents of the Croatian budget are the most represented, at least coming back. The clear IDS policy isn't that something's coming back, just take the gentlemen less. That would be fair. And for the last time, don't do us any harm. Don't cancel the trade courts like Ingrid used to say. Let's send a final message to the European Union once, and we don't give the courts, because they're part of our identity, some visibility, some communal structure, etc. Cancel the Brussels administration, Strasbourg, because such a Europe with such orders simply does not need it. But we don't need a policy that's going to be in front of that Europe at every request that I don't say don't mind taking off my pants. So many more times this is the law in first reading. There is time to understand something from those people who have power and who control the parliamentary majority and please make sure that the higher economic flows themselves have the need for the trade court in Pazin to continue to exist as before. And thank the former government who realized it wasn't even the one where the IDS was in for a year to have the need to form that court. And that's what it's supposed to say. The question would you get it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59332	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative of Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct a respected colleague when he said, quote, "This bill makes for concrete damage." That needs to be fixed. That's an incorrect quote. I'm sure there's no financial damage here, and regarding his exposure, I'll complete this correction. Namely, for the area of three counties, so Istria, Primorje-Gorski and Ličko-Senj, a Trade Court based in Rijeka is established, and as it is networked by the courts of Istria you have on page six and this is really an example that there is nowhere in Croatia. So we have municipal courts in Bujam, Labin, Pazin, Pula, Poreč and Rovinj, and the number of inhabitants and the number of objects nowhere can we find such density anywhere else. So, when talking about this then these things should be considered and in no way the county from which you are coming has been denied by this system of justice, the courts in the Republic of Croatia. Then it should be correct and compare it with other areas in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59334	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Cain incorrectly compared the Commercial Court in Osijek for the territory of the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County with the number of registered companies. A colleague of Cain, the number of cases in a commercial court at the headquarters of Osijek-Baranja County in Osijek is incorrectly compared to a court in Pazin because the number of cases and number of registered companies of a loaded court is not the same. Therefore, we cannot classify a comparison with the number of companies with the number of cases and with the court's burden in Osijek. What should be lifted by the court in Osijek and Slavonia in order to preserve the case in Pazin. To go here for savings, let's go save but don't touch my yard, touch someone else's. You need to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59336	Thank you. We're going to continue to discuss clubs. For the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the most respected secretary of state with an associate, colleague and colleague. Activities related to reform of the judicial system continue, and according to the proposal of this law, they go to the area of county and commercial courts. The law proposes a reduction of county courts from 21 to 15 and determines their territory and headquarters as well as areas and seats of municipal courts from the jurisdiction of each individual county court. Under the proposal, six county courts belong to another county court. In these six, the County Court in Zlatar is also unfortunately due to join the County Court in Varazdin. The proposal for the same law also provides for 7 commercial courts of a total of 13 now established. From the bill, the Trade Court in Varazdin is becoming responsible for my Krapina-Zagorje County. The same law establishes four administrative courts as first-degree courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia as a second-degree court. Zagorci will travel to Zagreb for the services of this court. The government or ministry, according to the latest draft law on county courts, is working on the rationality of the judiciary in a way that plans to spend 45 million kuna, in order to ensure the necessary working conditions, technical equipment and provision of spatial conditions for the work of these courts. I have to say, recently, the construction and equipment of the County Court in Zlatar, it was already a matter of taxpayers, 70 million kuna, and now, according to this proposal, the move and accession of the same Varazdin. The same bill does not show how much savings are planned to rationalise the judiciary. If we agree with the minister, that the fundamental objective of rationalisation is to create larger courts, courts within which judges will be able to specialize in certain branches of law, and in which they will be able to judge better, then there is no statement in favour of rationalisation that none of the judges and officials will get fired, but will also receive compensation for travel expenses. Well, for God's sake, is it savings or is it creating new obligations, new costs on the burden of taxpayers. Where in this whole story there are citizens, businessmen, users of the services of the court and the court. I'd like to give a special undertone to my special Zagorci. Citizens are dissatisfied, especially from those areas where existing courts have been abolished, because they will have to travel and cross many more miles in a much longer time, with much more spent personal money. When it comes to us Zagorci, Varazdin is over 150 kilometers away, such as Zagorje village, Varazdin 152 kilometers away. So, according to the already adopted two laws and the proposal of this third, the government is forwarding savings to a large number of citizens, over 1 million who, in such a way, are entering an unequal position with those whose courts have not changed. We at the HNS Club, the HSU did not support the previous two laws, it was municipal and criminal courts, and we will not support this proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of the Courts, because we believe that judicial reform is not only about abolishing and joining courts, but also about measures of human and normative nature, which will result in a more effective judiciary, which is actually the goal. Which will result in the suspension or attaching of the courts. How and where the garters will function, the state's attorney's office, public records, that's just to be seen. The situation is certainly not good for locations where the courts' seats are lifted. In addition, by losing the court, each environment loses part of its identity, as well as parts of every other kind of development and advancement. Who has the right to do so and the right to do so. The HNS Club, HSU, proposes to keep the Government's seat in Zlatar County Court for reasons that I have put forward, but I support the reasons and state the effectiveness of this court, so we suggest that the County Court in Zlatar covers municipal courts in Zabok, Krapina and Zlatar, and we also propose that the Municipality Court of Zlatar be attached to the Municipality of Zapresic, which is responsible for the municipalities and the city, which, according to its geographical position, makes up one whole by road and rail infrastructure. And now just a few more words about trade courts. We, at the HNS Club, also hold that commercial courts are specialized courts for the needs of the economy and its services, so if we want recovery of the economy, we need both up-to-date and high-quality commercial courts in full numbers, as we now have. Here's a proposal from the HNS club's law, the HSU won't support it. We hope that part of the remarks or any remarks made by the applicant will be accepted and included in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59338	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS club, distinguished representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59339	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a proposal to the Croatian Parliament for a Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts. Although it is at first sight a technical law, which establishes municipal, county, commercial and administrative courts, and determines their areas and seats in which they will operate, this law is actually of paramount importance for the legal security of all of us citizens and Croatian economies, as it regulates the organisational functioning of the judicial authority in the country and establishes a new network of courts throughout the state territory. In 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to start rationalising the network of courts, and the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts of 2008 reduced the number of municipal courts from 115 to 67, and the Law on the Areas and Seats of Violent Courts, instead of the previous 106 infringement courts, established a total of 63 criminal courts. With this bill, it is accessible to further streamline the network of county and commercial courts and to establish seats and areas of competence for the four administrative courts of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. Their establishment will significantly reduce the pressure of the inflow of the case file to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, and ensure a reduction of the work gap in that court. However, by stopping the new so far-called first-degree administrative courts at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, the task of unifying the case-law of new courts stands. The legal certainty of our citizens and our economic operators, which is achieved by legal trial within a reasonable period of time, is so important for the normal functioning of the state, for the lives of individuals, and for the economic empowerment of the entire country and for attracting foreign and domestic investors that its importance cannot be subordinated to the current state of the state budget. The European Union we are soon entering has set a goal. Efficient justice. But they are not in the EU's authority, or the European Commission's regulation of the way towards that goal. However, nothing in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement concerns the internal organisation of the candidate country's judiciary because if this were the case in the current EU Member States, uniform courts would already be established, which is not the case. On the contrary, the internal organisation of the judiciary and the establishment of a network of courts in each country is an internal matter adapted to the historical, traditional, cultural and economical specificities of each country as well as to Croatia. The assessment of the situation states that, on the basis of an analysis of the number of cases, an annual inflow of cases and the number of judges in the county and commercial courts, it is proposed to establish 15 of the 21 county courts so far, i.e. 7 of the so far established 13 companies. We at the HSS Club support the rationalization of the network of current courts and the establishment of administrative courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, but we also stand firmly at the point of view that excellence in work, the resolution of the number of cases and the annual inflow of the file are a key criterion for the successful rationalisation of the network of courts. Analyzing the Ministry of Justice's statistical report on the quantitative impact of judges' work for 2008 and 2009 at the HSS Club, we found that the judges of the County Court in Koprivnica who proposed to join the County Court in Bjelovar in 2008 resolved the largest number of cases by one judge of all county courts in the state, 358, while in 2009 with 328 cases solved by one judge in the fourth place. According to the same report, the county courts that have fewer than 10 judges are joined in certain county courts, since the detained County Court in Vukovar, according to an official report by the Ministry of Justice, has 10 judges in 2009, we in the HSS Club assume that there has been a review before the analysis and the numbering data by the Ministry of Justice, and in the making of this proposal, because the County Court in Koprivnica also has 10 judges in 2009. We therefore call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to include an existing County Court in Koprivnica until the second reading in the network of courts. Finally, we support the adoption of this law, and we believe that its application will create conditions for better efficiency in the work of courts, which will contribute to strengthening legal certainty in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59340	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59341	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry. So, to assume, just like my colleague Ingrid said we wouldn't support this law. However, I may have a slightly conflicting view of her personally because I don't think this law is ambitious enough. If it is necessary to rationalise the network of courts, first of all, of the county courts in this case, then I think that the removal of six courts is too little. I think that we should rationalise the system if we had 10 county courts and that this is enough for Croatian opportunities because if we had heard the criteria according to which some courts were attached, then perhaps we could say why 15 were chosen? Why isn't it 17, 13 or 10? Here I think 10 would be a nice frame, round figure for the number of county courts in the Republic of Croatia. And why do I think, so we didn't know and heard the criteria, so now we have a lot of problems about it, about the perception of why something is, and why isn't something? As the representative of the HSS Club said, the bill provides for the County Court of Bjelovar to be joined by the County Courts in Koprivnica and Virovitica. Who's fitting in? Therefore, the County Court of Koprivnica is attached, which for 3 years is a court that has resolved the most average cases per judge in Croatia. In the Justice Ministry's report, therefore not in a political report, the Justice Ministry's report says a sentence "most average cases by judge solve judges of the County Court in Koprivnica, 358 cases.", 2007, 2009, we have no data for 2010. E, those who handle the most cases in Croatia are attached to the court in Bjelovar who solves 254 cases per judge or 104 cases per judge. So instead of putting those who are less efficient into those who are more efficient, we attach those who are more efficient to those who are less efficient. So We shall give to those who work a reward for those who do not do good enough. And we have a further criterion, you know what is the most inefficient court in the Republic of Croatia county? Great Gorica. Now let's ask between Velika Gorica and Koprivnica which county court will be abolished? The hive! Because why would we stay good courts? Let the bad ones stay. And we're going to attach bad good judgments because probably when these good judges come to a bad court, they're going to make a bad court or a more inefficient court become a more effective court. And what are we going to do with the attachment? So, when we connect Bjelovar, not when we merge, it would even sound better to join the courts in Bjelovar, Koprivnica and Virovitica and to determine the seat somewhere than Koprivnica, Virovitica joins Bjelovar and when the 2 courts join Bjelovara we will get a court where there will be more than 32 judges. We will get the third largest court in Croatia. The first is in Zagreb, the second is in Split, the third is in Bjelovar. The one in Bjelovar will be three times bigger than some other county courts. For example, from the County Court in Slavonski Brod which today has the same number of judges as the County Court in Koprivnica, but is significantly inefficient, around 20% is more inefficient than the County Court in Koprivnica. And once we've joined Požega, he'll be twice as small as the future mayoral court in Bjelovar. Or, for example, we have courts that will be almost three times smaller. In Sibenik, Sisak, Zadar. How can only courts in the continental part of Croatia be abolished, except Gospić, and miracles do not need a single court in Dalmatia because everything works perfectly there. That's why I'm telling you about a number of 15 that's too small or too small. Either we leave everything or we cancel it and rationalize the story to some quota, so let's say the county court can't be under 25 judges. But let's not cancel the court with 10 judges in Koprivnica and leave the court with 10 judges in Slavonski Brod. Or let's attach a worse court to a better court, and let the bad courts learn to judge this court a little better, which is more effective. I'm not talking about controversy. The County Court in Koprivnica has been the most effective court for years, and I am not talking about not being filled to the end, that I am not talking about being very difficult to name judges, that it is very difficult to get court advisers, that today we still have problems not to have but that there are no spatial conditions for the work of the county court because there are even two locations where the tenant is at the municipal court. These mergers are followed by the abolition or merger of county state attorneys. So we're going to be in a situation where a whole structure of a very peer of lawyers is being moved from certain cities, they're likely to be moved by some law offices, because there won't be a bigger, better and more versatile law offices in cities where you don't even have a county court. Well, there'll only be those lawyers' offices and offices that judge the border and so on and so on and so forth who's the chicken he stole and the rest of it. And those who deal with more serious cases will be in cities where county courts exist. Does anyone think about the development of these cities where we now lift these county courts? We have criteria, I repeat when you join the court, when you attach the court from Koprivnica and Virovitica to Bjelovar you will receive the third largest county court in the Republic of Croatia. In Bjelovar, judges are already sitting on each other's necks because they have nowhere to sit. And not only that, but there is a trade court in Bjelovar. So, we lift the County Court in Koprivnica, we connect with Bjelovar, we abolish the county's state's attorney's office, we connect with Bjelovar, we leave a commercial court in Bjelovar. And maybe you can end the Koprivnica in the end. Why do you even need a town like that? You go after it not after but parallelly with it you remove the railway node and move it to Varazdin, because very important corridors pass the railways normally through Varazdin unlike Koprivnica. You're terminating the police. You're moving them to Varazdin. Then why are we even going to stay there? Gives us all a nice spread, and it'll be much better than doing things like this that just don't stand, don't hold water. You give us the criteria, tell us by which criteria one survives, by which one is formed, by which one belongs to someone. If a network of courts needs to be rationalized, then let's define the criteria and define where the best place for these courts to be. Because if the County Court of Koprivnica is to be abolished, it is much more logical that it joins the County Court in Varazdin because it is much easier, faster and safer for us to reach Varazdin than for Bjelovar. We are still driving to Bjelovar on old Roman roads that have not been restored since that time. Finally, police will join or the police administration will be formed in Varazdin. And if we go to the rationalisation of the courts because in 2019 there will be no county but there will be regions, I hope we will have 5 NUC2 regions, then let's go after making 5 NUC2 county courts or something that will be within those 5 NUC2 courts, so two county courts per NUC region, so that's 10 county courts. This way, I really don't see any reason for this law to be adopted in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59342	Thank you. Correction of a quote. Mr. Representative Frano Marusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59343	I don't know where you get this information that 2019 won't be Mrsšić's county. Who's talking about abolishing the county anyway? Where did you get that? Where are you making this up? You said there'd be no county in 2019. Which will be a general flood, there will be no world. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Of course there's going to be a county, no one's even thinking about abolishing the county. Who's proposing that?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59344	At 17.01, it was time to report a debate on this agenda point. Which one did you say in 2019? ... Then I'll be 85 years old. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm going to be one of the oldest advocates in terms of the composition today that's here. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. He's gone. Mrs. Vrbat Tanja. She's gone. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59345	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, we have before us a first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts establishing municipal and county, commercial and administrative courts and establishing their headquarters and areas of jurisdiction as regulated in Article 1 of this proposal. The relevant law of July 2008 in the Republic of Croatia established 67 municipal, 21 county and 13 commercial courts, and that law began the process of rationalising the network of municipal courts that had been established by 115 and indeed 107. Such a network of courts with so many courts and administrative staff relative to the size of the state and population has proved ineffective and inequitable that they have confirmed and analysed under the CARDS 20002, CARDS 2003, support for the reform of the Croatian judiciary. The strategy for reforming the judicial judiciary that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in September 2005 has overlooked the creation of a system of a network of courts that will be rational, but which will not reduce citizens' right to access a court. Thus, the current law established a network of municipal courts less than 48 of them compared to their previous number. When setting out this rationalisation proposal, account was taken of the burden of individual courts, in particular the number of cases received in view of the type and number of judges needed to resolve these cases during the year. It was also taken into account the geographical position of courts, the number of inhabitants and the density of population in a given area, the distance to the nearest court and the traffic connection. As for municipal courts, the rationalisation of the network of county and commercial courts will also take place by 31 December 2019 until it is necessary to ensure the conditions for their merger. This implies, therefore, the provision of adequate space, equipment, etc., all necessary for the functioning of these courts. As for county courts, this law proposes that their numbers be reduced from 21 to 15 and traded from 13 to 7. Since the new system of administrative trial, therefore a new system of administrative trial has been introduced, this law also establishes administrative courts and determines their jurisdiction. Given the current effects of the rationalisation of municipal courts over the past two years, I think we can be satisfied, I think we can conclude that there have been no earthquakes in the system or that the citizens have been in anything. I am convinced that this rationalisation of county and commercial courts will also positively reflect both the efficiency in the work of courts and the quality and speed of judicial protection, which I am convinced is most important to citizens. It is precisely the length of the length of proceedings or the inability to exercise the right to trial within a reasonable period of time that is one of the main reasons for the citizens' perception of the ineffectiveness of the judiciary. So the longevity of court proceedings in citizens creates a sense of uncertainty, impotence, favours creating perceptions about the corruption of the judicial system. For these reasons, as part of the full reform of the judicial system, the importance of this law is also exceptional in the exercise of the rule of law and the rule of law. For these reasons, I will support, of course, this law that is before us in the first reading and of course, there is time to discuss all these comments and suggestions that have been presented today in the debates. I am convinced that this will certainly be taken into account by the Proposer and that we will come to an even better quality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59346	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59347	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, it seems to me that the real rationalisation of trade courts would be that only 4 courts were left, so only Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split were left. This way, listening to various comments and all that we could hear from my predecessors about commercial courts is really getting the impression that we all want to defend the positions that are current and current trade courts and, of course, that everyone is trying to find the best arguments to defend these positions. I also defended the position of the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik and spoke to Minister Bošnjakovic and he gave assurances, so I want it here and again, that no service that citizens today have at Dubrovnik Commercial Court will be needed in the future for her to go to Split, so not for any service but all will still be able to do in permanent, I hope permanent service in Dubrovnik. So a permanent service, which will then really mean rationalisation only in part of the management of courts, but in terms of services that the commercial court naturally offers to citizens and which is why it is available to them. So, it's still going to stay in Dubrovnik, that's what they're saying. So if everything stays, if they're going to stay working on judges, if they're going to deal with things concerning Dubrovnik, if they won't have to go for nothing in Split, then I really don't see any reason to talk about it much. That is why it may be my suggestion that we are going to this solution to rationalise in 4 courts, so Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split, and that in all those places where there really is a need for institutions such as this proposal is, the Minister's proposal, that the minister appoints permanent services that will actually ensure the smooth work of the economy and will not force anyone to go from their place to someone else to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59348	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59349	Dear colleague, when you talk about the four courts that are your proposal, it's hard for me to talk about it. I believe that the Ministry of Justice, when it came to the drafting of this law, and in general the Strategy for the reform of the judicial system, took care of all these matters, given both the number of cases and the geographical location of certain courts, as proposed in this law, so the number of municipal, county and commercial courts. Of course, there are also likely opportunities to make certain adjustments as I have said and to respect any suggestions or any of these remarks we have heard today during the debate. But I think it is also important to stress this point what I said in my debate, that it is important for citizens not to be denied in the exercise of their rights, and you said that you have and we heard confirmations from the Ministry of Justice that it will happen exactly the opposite, that the quality and speed of judicial protection will be improved. And what is important for judges is that through this rationalisation of the network of courts, the specialisation of judges in the area of certain branches of law will also be possible and this specialisation will be reflected in the quality of court proceedings and trials in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59350	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59351	Here is my colleague Sesvečan, you said that the aim of this law is to increase the efficiency of the judiciary, so I am asking you very specifically now to explain to me how the judges of the Koprivnica County Court who are therefore most effective in Croatia will be more effective every day when they have to travel to Bjelovar and judge in Bjelovar under more inadequate conditions than they have in Koprivnica and when more nervous parties will come to the same court because they will also have to travel to Bjelovar. So how can you explain to me that the judges of the County Court of Koprivnica will become more effective because they will be attached to the County Court in Bjelovar?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59352	The reply to the replica representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59353	So, what I was saying. First of all, through specialisation, this reform of the judicial system and the rationalisation of the network of courts will also allow for the specialisation of judges, which is very important, so for the full reform of the judicial system. Therefore, this will increase their efficiency, the quality of the trial, of course what is most important for citizens, so the exercise of the right to judicial protection within a reasonable period.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59354	Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59355	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Like my fellow SDP colleagues, I personally cannot accept the adoption of this bill, primarily because, according to this proposal, the suspension of the Trade Court in Sibenik and its merger with the court in Zadar is envisioned. In addition to Sibenik, the suspension of trade courts is also envisaged in Pazin, Dubrovnik, Sisak, Karlovac and Slavonski Brod. In my debate, I will try to explain the need for the Commercial Court in Sibenik to retain the existing status of a specialised first-degree court. The following facts are given in favour of this attitude: The trade court in Sibenik, which is locally responsible for the Sibenik-Knin County, is modernly equipped, so it does not need to be invested on behalf of additional investments. All the judges and officials and tenants live in Sibenik. The possible dislocation of employees would create a place where and where greater cost than what is needed so far for the normal functioning of the Commercial Court in Sibenik. For the period from the beginning of work until 30 June 2010, the Commercial Court in Sibenik received more files than the framework criteria were for judges who were on the job. During the period from 29 July 2002 to 30 June 2010. A total of 45678 cases were received by the trade court in Sibenik and resolved by 45465, with only 213 pending cases on 30 June 2010, including the most pressing courts in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, throughout its work, the Commercial Court in Sibenik has proved to be an effective court, which also achieves the main objective of judicial reform, which is to effectively reduce the number of pending court proceedings and reduce the duration of court proceedings, which contributes to the effectiveness of the Croatian judiciary and the economy of the judicial system, and there is no reason why the Commercial Court in Sibenik does not exist, i.e. The above labour data justify not only the establishment but also the further existence of the Commercial Court in Sibenik. Any other proposal in judicial reform would mean that a long-standing court is being punished by its abolition. In addition, as there has been economic recovery in the area for which the local trade court in Sibenik is responsible, there has also been a major inflow of cases which the court took to work in the first half of 2010, which is an increase of 11.32% compared to that period in 2009. According to data from the State Statistics Institute in the first six months of 2010, exports to Sibenik-Knin County were shown in euro by 59% compared to the same period last year. It is the largest increase among Dalmatian counties. Also, the finding that there was economic recovery in Sibenik-Knin County also stems from Mr. Tourism Minister Damir Bajs' statement on 14 August 2010 which said that in Croatian tourism this year there are a number of counties that are in the plus, and currently the most successful among them is Sibenik-Knin County with an increase of 17% in arrivals and 11% in the nights. Otherwise, it is known that Sibenik-Knin County is the leading destination of nautical tourism in the Republic of Croatia. When the upcoming large investment is added to the area of business zone Podij Sibenik, which is identified as an area of county importance, which is currently the largest industrial zone in the Republic of Croatia with the available land of 5 and a half million square meters and potential, as well as the project of the maritime innovation centre as well as the construction of alternative renewable energy sources in the Sibenik-Knin County area, it is concluded that the abolition of the Commercial Court in Sibenik would cause significant damage to the economy of Sibenik-Knin County instead of the desired savings. Just all of these, in view of the present inflow of the case, and the amendments to the bankruptcy law which will lead to a large amount of the case, the so-called bankruptcy wave, and it will be very difficult to monitor the inflow of new cases, suggest that it would be better to keep all 13 first-degree commercial courts in the Republic of Croatia, and this is due to the interest of the economy. In particular, it should be stressed that in the processes in these courts, including the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia and the second-degree court have been frozen on tens of billions of kunas, and if the trial slows down, it will be an additional blow to the economy. And the aim of the trade trial is to make as brief a decision as possible in the shortest possible time. Therefore, it is to conclude, and on the basis of all of the above, that the abovementioned data on the work of the Commercial Court in Sibenik and the expected inflow of cases which will be brought into service by this court justify not only the establishment but also the further existence of the Commercial Court in Sibenik as a specialised first-degree court of the direct service of the economy and entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59356	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59357	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Crljenko, I'm glad you actually read the arguments that you actually made, which the President of the Trade Court in Sibenik, Mr. Livakovic, made. However, I must really tell you that if you have listened carefully to the debate held by the individual Mr. Sesvečan, the replica also of Mr. Matosic, then I must really say that there is absolutely no reason in accordance with the proposal of the Law on the seat of the courts for fear that this should be any further impact on the economy, as well as any other reason for the legal uncertainty of the parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59358	Thank you. Replica reply, Mrs. Brankica Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59359	Dear colleagues, if there is no reason to be afraid, then I do not understand why this bill included the abolition of the Trade Court in Sibenik, and its accession to Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59360	Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59361	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here today, most of us are actually asking why, in circumstances where we have an increase of over 65% inflows of cases in all trade courts in Croatia, we abolish trade courts. Why in the circumstances of the general economic crisis, when it is very important for us to release funds for further investment, do we lift some commercial courts in the Republic of Croatia? I will look only at Article 4 today when among the 7 commercial courts that you have not touched, when there is no commercial court in Dubrovnik. I believe that this is not a good decision for the Dubrovnik economy, for the Dubrovnik-Neretva County economy, precisely because the economy requires the availability of the court, requires the speed of court proceedings and a short time to the power of decision. However, by joining courts with the trend of increasing the number that I have already cited before commercial courts necessarily leads to the creation of stoppers in larger courts, it is necessary to lead to a slower settlement of the case, a longer time to the power of decision. It also collects economic operators, blocks large money in court proceedings, which again leads to financial indiscipline, i.e. non-payments in business relations. The merger of courts also contributes, i.e. damages the decentralisation of the state, i.e. the even development of the state in particular of border areas. I am aware that statistics speak, i.e. the number of cases, do not classify Dubrovnik's commercial court among the seven largest commercial courts in the Republic of Croatia, but I also cannot say that it does not lag behind, but not so much, the pardon is not so lagging behind. I would mention here both historical and geographical and traditional reasons, and the value of the case dispute in relation to costs, i.e. economics, then the quality of work in court, the satisfaction of the parties to the work of the court, transparency, availability, and also the perspective of this area after the time of exit from the economic crisis, and all these are actually the reasons why the Commercial Court should remain in Dubrovnik. Also, during this whole time since its draft in 2000, there have been no objections and this Commercial Court has been evaluated by very good grades and is among the best commercial courts in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I'm not an expert in the judiciary, but all this data I'm reporting just got from the Dubrovnik Commercial Court. I must also mention that Dubrovnik has survived through history, it has survived at the maritime trade, when we talk about Dubrovnik tradition, the importance of the Dubrovnik trade judiciary has been recognised long ago, so already in 1812 in Dubrovnik the Commercial Court was established. When we talk about isolation, the fact is that there is actually the isolation of our end from the rest of the country, along the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will soon become the right limit in terms of the dam towards the European Union, so-called. The Schengen border. Here we are this summer very often witnessed that we waited half an hour, forty-five minutes right at that border. Then there's traffic isolation. When we have 214km by the sea road, 240km using a 100km highway to the nearest commercial court, however, it takes 3 and a half hours to drive by car. On the other hand, we have a relationship Zagreb-Sisak-Bjelovar-Varaždin, it is within 75 kilometers, there are three commercial courts, there is a highway and there is the largest distance between Bjelovar and Varazdin is the longest route of 110 kilometers, it is half an hour on the highway. Let's not forget that Dubrovnik-Neretva County doesn't have a mile of highway. Dubrovnik is also the third port of the Mediterranean, the tenth in the world for ships on circular voyages, thus not to have this court abolished, but to extend its jurisdiction. And another piece of information. The Dubrovnik Commercial Court is one of the few commercial courts implementing the exercise, thus shortening the time of the enforcement procedure. I'll say something about the inflow. The increasing inflow of cases, the increase in 2009, the litigation cases were about 40%, the executive cases by 15%, registered cases by 5%, according to the 2009 inflow methodology, there is an inflow of 5.9 judges. Speaking of savings, I must stress that the Dubrovnik Commercial Court has no special... The costs of the court. [[You don't understand.]] Electricity, water, heating, security service, maintenance and others, as the court is located in a building where the Ministry of Justice and the Republic of Croatia bear maintenance costs, as the building is common to other judicial bodies in Dubrovnik. There is also a municipal court, county court, criminal court, county state attorney's office, etc. I must also say about the speed of solving the registration and all other cases, so they are resolved very often for a day, on average up to 4 days, including those most complex in which the parties need to complete the application. In two-thirds of the litigation cases, decisions are made within one year, the remaining third is the subject of application by other courts in the Republic of Croatia. Although with a smaller population in the area for which it is responsible, there are more cases than some other commercial courts. All of this shows that the abolition of Dubrovnik, i.e. the Dubrovnik Commercial Court, denies the quality and advantage of work, the up-to-date settlement of the case, and not forget after the crisis period comes the period of investment development, and at that time economic growth and take-off if the Dubrovnik Commercial Court is abolished, that is, there is a big problem for the economy because today a permanent service is mentioned, however, the permanent service has a limited course, and the Commercial Court in Split also tends to join as soon as possible, joining permanent services to its court. Therefore, we can say that the permanent service is essentially the first step towards abolishing the Trade Court. Finally, the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik has been growing, quality and up-to-date and has full justification for its existence and further expansion of its activity. Let us remember, in fact, if we were to take care of the announcement of the Minister of Finance which speaks about a large number of bankruptcys, let us remember that it is also very important for the Dubrovnik economy, or Dubrovnik-Neretva County to remain the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik. And something else numerical. In Dubrovnik, we have 7 358 economic operators who are actually in the jurisdiction of the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik, and we must also say that there is available economic potential that is not actually used. It means that Dubrovnik needs a Trade Court everything else is harmful to the economy and I would be very happy and I call on my colleagues from Dubrovnik-Neretva County to join all possibilities to actually help the Trade Court stay. Mr. Matušić said earlier that he had spoken to the minister and to see a solution in the permanent service, but I also spoke to the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and representatives of the economics and lawyers they were not satisfied with this and all this information I had said, I have just expressed their views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59362	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59363	Well, here's what I'd like to take this opportunity to replicate Mrs. Bonačić. The fact is that these days, according to Dubrovnik, a car petition, or an open letter requiring the citizens of Dubrovnik to sign that the abolition of the Trade Court, etc., but also the fact that they are asking to maintain independence if it is possible, if it is not for the retention of the existing situation or the establishment of a permanent service of the Trade Court which will happen according to the assurances of the gentlemen of the Ministry. So, what is needed is that this is the first reading and I would also ask you to have this information that Mrs Bonačić spoke of as a court in Dubrovnik that is a good court, that it is an excellent court, is also the fact that we are geographically isolated, that we are traffic-insulated. The fact is that from Benedict Kotruljević's ability to trade is that in Dubrovnik it is really specific that he was engaged in trade, that he was created at the store and only then on the sea and only today, unfortunately, he lives on tourism alone. I would ask that if you can consider the second reading, I understand in 2019, but that in some way it is established in the legal proposal that this permanent service with all these attributes will remain. And then there's no more travel, then there's no fear for these. The only thing that will happen is that it will end as much as I understand the position of the President of the Trade Court and there will be savings in that part even though we have a very good president and it will be a shame, but if that is the case, I think it would be nice to have Dubrovnik on the eighth, but it is not regrettable. It would be fairest then if it were 4, as Mr. Matušić said. Since that didn't happen then we pray that at least this way we strengthen people's belief that they have no fear or fear that they will have to travel to Split. Because our trip to Split means 2 borders, means 4 borders. There and back, it's a disaster for Dubrovnik and it was best seen this summer. And that's why I'm asking you to really respect this particular person in Dubrovnik because we're all a little different.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59364	Replica reply, Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59365	And here I am very glad that my colleague Shuica from this of yours has just said, I can see from the replica that you are, in essence, for the survival of the Dubrovnik Commercial Court. But I must say that from all your other discussions today, I can say that it is essentially HDZ for this law, which is against what it is for this law, it means that it is against the survival of the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik. And what you said about the savings you were talking about, I don't think there's any savings, it's just a matter of whether it's the President of the Trade Court or the Head of the Service. However, there is no savings, though costs are increasing. I've got these calculations, too, but yeah, I've talked a lot about it, I don't want any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59366	Thank you. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59367	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Here's a few words I'd also like to explain the situation of the County Court in Požega. There are at least 3 serious reasons for retaining the headquarters of the County District Court in Požega. Under number 1), it is functional, number 2) security and under 3. Certainly economic. When assessing where the seat of future county district courts should be located, it is necessary to start from the jurisdiction of those courts and to determine what is necessary for future county courts to carry out their duties legally under their jurisdiction. There are first-degree courts, and as we know, second-degree courts. As regards second-degree cases, these cases are generally resolved without the presence of parties, so it is not essential to determine the seat of the future County Court as many second-degree cases as it has. Because second-degree cases can be solved as so far by individual courts in any area of the Republic of Croatia. As regards first-degree cases, however, it is essential that the County Court may be in a particular seat of the accompanying judicial infrastructure that a single county or district court must monitor. This primarily refers to the penal system, so prison, penitentiary, educational institution, and others. Looking at the County Court in Požega and the nearest environment, these are the County Court in Slavonski Brod and the County Court in Virovitica, it is evident that none of these courts in their headquarters have a pension system or any judicial infrastructure other than the court building. Therefore, in order for these courts to act legally at all, they must use the infrastructure of nearby courts, which is the court in Požega, Osijek or Bjelovar. The position of the Požega court seat in any other place the entire penalty system that has Požega was under the supervision of a judge whose seat would be outside Požega. It is necessary to note that in Požega the only female prison in the Republic of Croatia, the only women's penitentiary in the Republic of Croatia, the prison for men, prison, juvenile prison are the only one in Croatia such a type, and the Breeding Institute for Women's Persons. Furthermore, it is important to stress that special attention should be paid to the sampling system in the next period and that the Prosecution Office for County Courts in Slavonski Brod and Požega is set up right in Požega. Such a structure is logical since the entire foam system is located in Požega as well as the workers in the penalty system that would carry out the testing, i.e. which should be contacted in the trial process. It is therefore necessary to point out the following two problems that may arise in the event of an end to the County Court in the burning. I already said it was a security issue. It is known that, in the case of cases, organised crime, and some other cases, there may be major security problems especially in the case of ensuring the main debate and ensuring presence in the investigative or other hearing. In some cases in the case of the Paki plain, it is difficult to imagine and this is the process led in Požega, it is difficult to imagine that it is possible to conduct a main debate in the seat of a court that has no prison, as this would mean bringing detainees to investigative hearings or hearings for the main debate with the involvement of a large number of judicial employees. Furthermore, it is also known that there are no judicial police at the headquarters of courts that do not have a prison system, and it is impossible to request at a given time the reinforcement of judicial police officers who could arrive within a reasonable period of time. When we talk about economic reasons, then it should certainly be noted that the headquarters of the County Court in Požega would be invented in any other place because surrounding seats do not have a penal system daily driving prisoners would also show huge costs. This would primarily mean additional purchase of a vehicle and additional employment of a judicial police whose exclusive task would be the daily transport of prisoners, as it is impossible to drive prisoners by one vehicle. So far, the way in which prisoners are being saved by a single vehicle and they held a hearing in front of an investigative judge in different times would mean that the detainee who held the hearing in 9 must sit in a vehicle parked in front of the city of the court until the other detainee completes his hearing. In addition, it is necessary to point out that the government strategy of the Republic of Croatia primarily aims at the efficiency, economics and rationalisation of the judiciary. And it should be borne in mind that all judicial infrastructure including the Posega screening system already exists and that, in the event of the abolition of the Požega County Court, the whole system should be re-designed in another centre, along with the necessary training of the entire staff working at that new centre. It's final. The detention of the County Court’s seat in Požega in such a way as to attach one of the neighbouring courts to the court was Slavonski Brod, Proposition and Virovitica, and since it only heard from the exposure that there was indeed a great crowd in Bjelovar as regards the accession of the courts, it would be possible to legally and economically conduct the proceedings of judges and the legal conduct of first-degree criminal proceedings on the one hand, and on the other hand, if some of the neighbouring courts who do not have the accompanying infrastructure kept their seat could use the premises of the County Court in Požega. And to conclude, the Požega court has been in existence for 100 years. Mr. Vice President, you're probably laughing because you know all this together.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59368	Well, I wasn't on that court tape 100 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59369	There's 100 years. We don't mind a court in Pozega where the county court is only 10 years old. And I'm sure that in addition to this infrastructure that the court has, and I've already said this trial, male and female prisons, penitentiary, educational institutions and others, I'm sure and I'm appealing to both the minister and the ministry to really consider this proposal because the state's county attorney's office has to move and move to the ship, no more outposts in Požega. And this is what we discussed by 2019 and the County Court in Požega, if they join the Ship, they remain employees. But in any case, the question arises that after 2019, I, too, as a representative today, and I am sure that all my colleagues should be taken care of. And what Mr. Shuica has proposed if the new law will guarantee that after 2019, she will remain employees of the County Court in Požega and all those environments that should be attached, then in that case it would certainly be the safety of those people and courts and prison systems, because in Požega after 2019 I ask the question, I do not know, and no one can guarantee me whether there will survive both women and men's prisons and all of these institutions that exist there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59370	Probably not a woman's prison because there won't be any need, not even now. ... And especially these educational tricks for you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will try very briefly and look in part at the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. In the light of the reasons for the proposal of this law, they cannot find all the arguments and criteria to be taken when working on the schedule of courts. I found two. The number of judges and the number of cases. If rationalization is a concept that requires rational and objective criteria, then this is small. There are little two criteria, so volunteering is the most important thing in the bill. The second thing I wanted to say, and I didn't get the reasons for this proposal out of reason, and these two criteria for the rationalisation of the courts in Zagreb are not standing or I don't think they are standing, and I haven't been going to the courts for a long time, so I'm looking for an argument to rationalise the courts in the City of Zagreb. Namely, the City of Zagreb is an administrative unit, it is a unique city. The city of Zagreb is also an urban unit, I hope it is also an urban whole, but urbanally safe. The city of Zagreb is both a social community and a social unit. Many Zagrebans have their own legal interests or possessions or neighbors or children or something else in various parts, and city courts are divided into only Zagreb, there are probably reasons for this, for the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb, the Criminal Court in Zagreb, for the area north of Sava. And for a single or municipal court for the area south of Sava, the area south of Sava therefore has no division in the municipal civil and municipal criminal court. For all I know, for the City of Zagreb is one section of land books, one section is land books. Secondly, one is a cadastre for the City of Zagreb. And thirdly, I can't imagine that in such a short time and I hope that the proposal implies division and physical, and not in the same building, then I can't imagine what would be a rational organization that the Zagrebs go to a court in New Zagreb, and in the same court of the same jurisdiction in the northern part or so that I could say ironically, in the city part of Zagreb. Therefore, I think that at least the Zagrebers should ensure that I speak the same position when it comes to courts. So this proposal seems to me that you would have to give more of the answers that it said to say the administrative whole, the urbanist whole, the social community, the area that is, in the land-book sense, one whole, in social terms, one whole of the vaccine, in this way, unprincipled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59372	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretary with an associate. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd say before I say anything to a Slavonia folk who literally says, "if anyone needs a dead cow, let my neighbor die, not me." In his discussion today, counterpart Cain spoke about the Commercial Court in Osijek, comparing the Commercial Court in Osijek with the Trade Court in Pazin, by the number of registered companies, and not by the number of cases and the importance of that court as a regional centre of a city such as the city of Osijek. Then I just go back a little bit to the very purpose of this law. I don't think that our government, that the ruler and we in the House, too, are going to have one stupid thing coming to mind, and that's that we're removing the courts to burden the judicial system, to endanger the economy in certain areas because everyone here today who spoke before me has somehow spoken their position from their own ends. If we were to go with this then we should not touch anything, we should not go into the government's justice reform programme, we should not seek efficiency, efficiency, speed of decision-making, but rather stick to our own backyards, and not speak of how we will enter the European Union if we think so. I think the proposal for this law is, first of all, the intention of making our judiciary effective, at less cost, for certain courts who, I don't think, are stupid to say abolishing, they join together. They join together because cases, some cases where they should be specialized, would be resolved more quickly. It is illogical for me that a court of very small proportions has a burden of threefold more than this court so that the efficiency of a court is measured as being 100% effective and has 50% fewer cases, and this one is ineffective so that the names are used as good and bad judgment. The intention is quite the opposite, the intention is to rationalise the network of courts, to bring the courts together as proposed by the government, so 21 county courts in 15, 13 commercial courts in 7 and bring this system into order effectively, transparently and rationally to the judiciary. If we think of it that way, imagine when we are in the Assembly discussing the abolition of certain municipalities and the rationalization of local administration and self-government units. Well, we'll never make a deal. If we are going to take some historic steps behind us and we will never save anything in front of us and we will not be rational at all today when we are to join the European Union. I think there will be more discussion in the second reading of this law, but first of all, I suggest that we be reasonable, to be rational, to decide. No judge will lose his job, no court will be abolished, he will join in. Our judiciary will become effective, rationally, at less cost with this bill of law. Nobody loses their job but it is about the decision-making process having a certain speed, that judgments are passed within a reasonable period of time and that all that is done under this bill will be in terms of improving the Croatian judiciary, and not a setback. Thank you very much. I support this bill, and I will make some further suggestions in my second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59374	Thank you. Two replicas. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59375	Thank you very much. My colleague Joseph, I fully agree, but I wanted not to attack here today by proposing this law, but in any case I wanted to say that Požega has all the possible conditions, so from the trial and I'm not counting now on what. It is clear to me that by 2019 county workers remain working in their system. The State's Attorney's office is moving, and he's gone in Požega. And who guarantees after 2019 that other courts will not be abolished, that there will be no more county court because they will say or we will build a new system in Slavonski Brod. That's the whole point. And we've done things in Požega before, because there weren't enough of them from Brod. So what do you change then? Let's leave it all the same. In Požega, let everything be done the same and keep Požega headquarters, and let the ship be an outpost since there is not a single building, the prison of a woman, a male, the educational measures I was talking about, there is no probationary system. So why are we moving it all to the other middle if we already have it in one middle? That's what I'm talking about. So, and that's what worries us in Pozega, and we don't need to change it if we already have everything. Let's just keep doing what we've done so far and we'll do all that. There are no people in the ship who would do this job or we have to move people from Požega or they'll be on the market for some new people. There's no system there. There's a complete system here. That's what I was talking about. It's all built here. Thank you, Vice President, maybe I'm a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59376	And especially you, the raiser. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Agent Lucic, we don't cancel anything, we connect. Our judiciary is becoming more and more difficult, more and more systems, especially by entering the European Union through the application of international regulations, European directives, the specialisation of courts. It does not matter how decisions will be taken and where they will be taken, but it is important that legislation is protected, the laws of the Republic of Croatia will continue to be adopted by your law in Požega by convicts and all those who have violated Croatian laws. There will still be male and female prison, a facility specialized, a permanent court office with you, and a court seat if it is in Slavonski Brod does not mean that the judiciary will be less effective than exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59378	How's Stara Gradiška? It's not working right now. Old Gradiška doesn't work, yeah. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Salapic, you spoke nicely about the merger and this specialization, etc. a full-time service, all together. But it is certainly necessary to mention that there should also be criteria by which it will be combined with certainly the necessary moment of righteousness. When we started thinking regionally here, I thought for sure, too, so that Koprivnica, three years in a row, is the most effective, etc. that it would not be fair to go under one who is weaker in any case. But the other thing is traffic connection. I also want to say that we are far better connected to Varazdin, etc. Even in that part, I'm asking you to think about it that way. I also spoke to the minister and warned him of these circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59380	That's so these prisoners don't walk from court to prison and vice versa. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague. We shouldn't look at it like that. I think those criteria were clear. This proposal was made according to the criteria drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Justice. We're as strong as the state. We're not territorially dilated enough to look regionally at this case right now. As we enter the Union, we should be effective and our judiciary should be transparent and decision-making should be within a reasonable period. This is the goal of our judiciary and our judicial reform. Without it, we will never step into the European Union by looking at our own backyard. I think we need to look a little wider in this case in both proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59382	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59383	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here I will also join those who have expressed their dissatisfaction and their dissatisfaction with such a legal proposal. Namely, this proposal indicates that the existing County Court in Čakovec belongs to the County Court in Varazdin. This kind of development was predictable, announced in fact on the moment when the Municipal Court in Prelog was abolished and attached to the Municipal Court in Čakovec. The following things will probably be left without the County State's Attorney's office, and then we'll be left without any other public services. The Međimurians are rational people and support everything that leads to the reduction of the cost of functioning of the state, because it directly contributes to strengthening the competitiveness of the economy. However, what is of interest to Međimurci, and it is certain that all Croatian citizens are also interested in what criteria many have spoken about today, so what criteria were proposed by the proposer when establishing a new network of county courts. As if for each individual case, the court respected some other criteria. However, from the explanation we have here, we're saying that we analyzed the number of objects, the annual inflow of objects. So, the burden of courts and the number of judges, that's what's been taken into account. Unfortunately, there is not a single word about the efficiency of the courts, about the effectiveness of the judges, which should actually be the primary criterion in determining the network of courts. Because citizens as parties in the process are certainly the most important how quickly their cases are dealt with, how effectively their civil rights are protected. In one word, how much justice is available to them? And the County Court in Čakovec is also according to figures, but also according to the words, so the testimony of the Supreme Court president is one of the most efficient and up-to-date courts in the state and covers the most densely populated area in the country and the area of a very numerous and very lively, very dynamic economy. True, in Međimurje after the suspension, as I told the Municipal Court in Prelog, we only have one municipal court in Čakovec. But the court covers as many as 25 municipalities and cities with more than 120,000 inhabitants with 2 and a half thousand economic operators. Therefore, legal persons or companies and almost as many craftsmen. Therefore, according to this proposal, those more efficient courts are abolished, while some less effective ones remain that satisfy some other criteria clearly and well-known only to the promoter. This approach is neither good nor reasonable. It is not good to reduce the level of citizens' standards that they have learned especially in a sensitive area such as the availability of legal protection and therefore do not support such a proposal for a law on areas and courts' seats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59384	Thank you. And Mr. Agent Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59385	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The bill, as we have heard here, and I am pleased to hear that we agree in many ways, regardless of the current political positions and the relationship between the forces of the position and the opposition, that it has not fully worked out everything that this law should do in its own right. The law if it was going to meet the conditions and to meet the conditions of rationalisation, which would mean savings and efficiency in the end, in order to achieve this, then it is necessary to make such a proposal that will lead to rationalisation, which will increase efficiency. In the reduction, elimination, merger for mergers for elimination does not mean that it is rational, I see that there are a lot of people in their working lives who have spent all kinds of activities under rationalization, so we have combined something, with arguments that they have prevailed against, that after a few years we would once again carry out, let's say decentralisation of certain activities, etc., again with arguments for etc., and we always said it was about efficiency. So I'm not going to repeat everything that's been said so far, and I'd look back, since I'm from Istria, I'm looking back at the trade court in Pazin. I have to look back at it and say very clearly that the Commercial Court is back a few years ago meaning established in Pazin, that the establishment of the trade court in Pazin was on express request, I am not going to say the pressure of the economy, and economic operators in the Istrian county, where 220 thousand inhabitants live, where they exist over 18 and a half thousand commercial entities and that this was a request of the economy, in order to get to, in fact, efficiency, at speed, and rationality in meeting all those needs and competences relating to the commercial court. Until then, we were all together, we belonged to the Trade Court in Rijeka, I have to say that it was a commercial court that was re-traced with cases, which had problems in executing all, this large amount of cases, because it was two counties with a large number of commercial entities, and that it was simply an expression of the request of the economy, and the need to establish a Trade Court in Pazin. He was founded, the trade court in Pazin very quickly showed all the good positive sides why he was founded, cases that are being resolved much faster, much faster given the proximity and efficiency, etc., means in number, I will not repeat, he is at the top of the number of cases in the courts in the territory of the Republic of Croatia The Commercial Court in Pazin, therefore, according to this criterion there is absolutely no reason for us to be guided by the criteria and why a commercial court was established, and he was founded precisely to enable the economy, and we are filled with the words of the economy justified to all of us lately, at this time which is before us, that precisely one mechanism that is needed. And now I'm not just talking about the trade court in Pazin, I mean other trade courts where I fully understood colleagues who spoke about other courts, where just as a special part of the mechanism, it will be vital for the development of the economy in the coming period, the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is inadmissible to look at it this way, and I must say that these two criteria, I will look back at it, given why the legislator and the proposer handled the number of judges and the number of cases. The number of judges in Pazin has already long been the request of the trade court in Pazin for two or three other judges in view of the number of cases. Normally, the ministry hasn't approved the recruitment of judges lately. It is now taken as one of the criteria of a small number of judges in Pazin. Therefore, I do not think it is acceptable to treat this problem in this way, so the court has already been burdened, quite burdened in the number of cases and had it for a number of judges, however it was not possible to hire, it was not authorised to hire judges, and now it is now in the merger, or in the termination, or mergers, or as you would like to say, it is precisely taking that criterion to a small number of judges. I don't think that's correct, that the criteria have to be much broader, much clearer, and much more precise, and if we want to be more transparent, but appropriate exactly what the commercial courts want to achieve, which is to be a service and to serve the economy in every county in every area. So what you said isn't going to go away, it's going to stay in service. To see that it's not even written, someone can believe, I'm just taught by experience in many laws, in many of these I would say the promises of the lips... After that, when time passes, which would tell our people what, who said what he said, it's a lie, it goes on and it comes. [[You don't understand.]] So if that's what you're thinking, let's keep it clear in the bill, very precise and very clear, that what's going to happen by 2019. I have to be maybe a little bit of what a man and a skeptic would say, a question of what will happen by 2019. Therefore, both 2010 and 2011 should survive, etc. About that later. However, once again, I absolutely oppose the abolition of the trade court in Pazin and all those courts where there is a clear articulated interest of the economy, a holding for the action of these courts in these areas, because there is no argument that the Trade Court in Pazin is again in the Commercial Court of Rijeka, after only a few years, when it is very much justified and demonstrated that the establishment of a commercial court was justified to the satisfaction of the Istrian County economy. That opinion is shared by the River Court, and the case in Pazin, and I must say that there is no one happy in those courts to regain that attachment and the creation of a court that will be greatly burdened with cases. That's how it's going to be done and how it's going to work that way we can just imagine. We have experience, we have experience from these four years, and since it is a court that is at the very top of the Republic of Croatia and a half of economic facilities and economic operators and objects, it is inadmissible to abolish it by one such legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59386	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59387	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to sincerely thank you for a comprehensive and useful discussion that will certainly serve between the two readings to solve things in a different way. But we need to apostrophe some things just clarifications for the sake of it. Therefore, I would like to remind myself of the objective criteria and parameters that were managed by the legislator when deciding which courts should be attached. It's an analysis of the number of cases, the annual inflow of cases, the number of judges and certainly the territorial principle. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the courts do not end or belong, the courts are joined together, and I have made that clear and in the light of the very proposal of the law, I have said. Permanent services outside the seat are being held, but mergers round the courts, which certainly achieves efficiency, speed in work, specialisation and transparency in action. Here's another thank you very much for all the discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59388	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. with a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime with a final draft of the law, and at 12 p.m. vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-09-30-0.u59389	11th Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. It was the first reading, P.Z.E. Number 600. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposal for a Law on Areas and Courts of Justice is adopted. Second, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage and vote on the proposed conclusion. Thank you. The result? The proposal was adopted by a majority of votes, 78 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 32 against. ..../no recordings/...
